u2020-11-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 19th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mr Dezső Believer will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, General debates are now taking place. I would like to inform you that, in view of the increased compliance with the rules of the pandemic situation, only the next speaker and the following two speakers should be present in the Chamber as far as possible. Dear Parliament, Following up will be the 2016 LXXIII on foreign representations and permanent foreign service. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Government referral T/13661. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Magyar Levente, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-11-19-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us aims to amend the Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service Act. The bill aims to amend the rules relating to permanent external service that are essential for the proper functioning of the permanent external service system. The purpose of the amendment of the Foreign Service Act is to create an appropriate legal environment, i.e. to implement the provisions of the law and to settle the practical experience of the application of the law at the legal level. In general, the amendment contained in the bill is designed to ensure uniform application, thus making a significant contribution to the proper functioning of the single representation system. For the first time in the list of amendments, the terminology of the specialised consul performing specific consular tasks, who is a special specialist diplomat who performs consular duties at foreign representations, in addition to the tasks of the professional diplomat, will be introduced. An important amendment is the fact that not only a person who is a national of the host State but also a former national of the host State may no longer be admitted to permanent foreign service. However, this is a general rule, with the agreement of the civilian national security services and the Minister responsible for the management of civil intelligence activities, the head of the deployment body may grant exemption. This amendment is necessary for security reasons and for the enforcement of diplomatic exemptions in the host State and for ensuring personal integrity in relation to external service life. The continuous expansion of the activities of those posted for permanent external service required restructuring of management and administrative posts, thus creating the regional economic director and the head of regional IT. At the same time, the regional administrator will be terminated. Dear Parliament, The bill also contains an exact list of certain items of title for the termination and termination of a permanent external service. The amendment allows government officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to be assigned to the Information Office in the interest of government, thus enabling the government official working in the KKM and previously serving on the Permanent Representation of Hungary to the European Union to be transferred to the Information Office without having to terminate his legal relationship with the sending body. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the rules of the guest educational scholarship programme, operating to ensure the education and dissemination of Hungarian language and culture in foreign higher education institutions and to ensure more effective support for foreign Hungarological education and research, are currently laid down in the Act on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2018, it is necessary to transpose these rules into the Foreign Service Act in order to facilitate the application of the law and to establish a single representation system. The amendment proposal before us also responds to this need. It is important to note that this amendment will be made to the Permanent Representation of Hungary to the European Union to eliminate the difference in salaries between those who perform tasks related to the operation of IT systems, security, security and secret handling activities, but who otherwise have a relationship with the KKM, and those who are otherwise posted to the Permanent Representation of the EU, given that they carry out their work under the same conditions. As a result of the amendment, the range of forms of permanent absence and detailed rules will be laid down in line with the specific features of the External Action Service and the preparation for a permanent external service. The amendment also regulates, by introducing another legal institution, the case where the employment of a government official with another body is justified for a limited period of time in the interest of foreign policy, administrative or foreign security security. The proposal sets out in detail the rights and obligations of the bodies involved in the secondment and of the government official, as well as the rules on secondment and termination. In this context, guarantee rules have also been put in place that the secondment may take place with the agreement of the government official, that his salary may not be reduced, that his post does not cease with the central government administration, and that he may be further employed at his original post in the event of termination of secondment. Dear Parliament, Last but not least, the proposal includes the technical clarification of the Foreign Service Act, which concerns the extension of the scope of the law, the right to mark the professional diploma, the conditions for placing on permanent external service, the rules for temporary admission, the abolition of permanent external service by withdrawal of placement, and the multiplying numbers for classification by job and rank. The bill also ensures that the provisions of the Foreign Service Act are brought into line with the Law on Government Administration, taking into account the uniform and integrated institutional structure involved in the provision of public tasks in the foreign and foreign affairs economy. Dear Parliament, In view of the above, I would like to ask you to support the bill tabled with your vote, and I would like to thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-2	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-19-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The new Foreign Affairs Act was adopted by the Parliament in July 2016. There was a broad consultation, even if not everyone supported it, the MSZP abstained, specifically against it were only Ferenc Gyurcsány's men. The law has dealt with a number of long-standing issues, but the most important aspect of diplomats was the radically new regulation of the stipends of foreign service providers: it put an end to the perversion of the socialist system that the diplomat once received a domestic salary and a foreign payment. It has established a decent wage and allowed the posted person to decide how to use the reimbursement, thereby increasing the space of his place of work, as well as his responsibilities, and, last but not least, significantly reducing the administrative burden associated with it. [[8.40]] The first technical amendment of the law was made at the end of the same year. It was a fine-tuning process, which mainly created clearer relations with the spouses and other family members of the delegates. This spring, together with the Act on Eximbank, we have already amended the Foreign Affairs Act once, but these amendments were also of a technical nature, which required changes to other legislation. This is how we came to the current review. The amendment is also of a crucial technical nature, as we have heard from Mr Secretary of State's exposé. It introduces the concept of a specialist consultant, i.e. a professional diplomat who also performs tasks as a consular officer. It simplifies and clarifies the rules for immediate repatriation and immediate dismissal, specifying in the latter case that the amount paid in the event of termination of employment by mutual agreement should not exceed the amount of severance payments due to the employee. According to the law, there is no longer a need for the posted consent to amend the posting document if, on the basis of a unilateral decision of the managing director, it is transferred from official interest to another post or other permanent foreign service job. It also regulates the secondment of government officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to the Information Office. This may take place for a maximum of two years, with the agreement of the government official, with no reduction in his salary and no termination of his post, so that he may continue to be employed without interruption in the event of termination of secondment. Finally, the proposal simplifies the job classification of administrative workers. Allow me to highlight the issue of the establishment of a guest education scholarship programme, which will provide tangible financial support for teachers in the Hungarian language and culture of a foreign higher education institution. It is also necessary to mention an issue which, in my view, needs to be considered. The proposal would prohibit the posting of a permanent foreign service to a State of which the relocated has previously been a national, and the head of the posting body could grant an exemption only with the agreement of the Minister for the Management of Civil National Security Services and Civil Intelligence. In my view, the provision is appropriate in the case of existing citizenship, the legislation in force does so, in line with the Geneva Convention and international law governing diplomacy, but it is not justified in my personal view to extend it to ceased citizenship, as there is no legal relevance here, but there is only a question of reliability, which can be regulated differently, and it is included in the current legislation by prohibiting secondment to the host country only in the case of existing citizenship. The fact that we have technical amendments before us again and there is no need for a fundamental change is a recognition that the 2016 Foreign Affairs Act has stood the test of time. Thank you for listening, and I support the bill. I also ask for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Dudás, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. The Parliament also discussed a bill on foreign service yesterday, and I said it then, and I would like to confirm here that it is extremely important that Hungary should be represented wherever possible, or at least in most parts of the world, whether it is an embassy or a consulate. It is important, however, that these countries cannot be grouped in such a way that they are important and less important, and I would rather use the approach that they are important and more important. Whether it's the United States of America, the Arab zones, Latin America or Asia, these are very important. The general debate on yesterday's bill on visas, together with the Republic of Poland, was very important, and I also consider this very important. They are doing a very important activity, very important for the country's policy, economy and perception. It is also very important to settle their situation and to appreciate it. I'll tell you honestly, I've had a lot of questions. I thought after the expo, I'd get some answers. Rather, it was generated, so with your permission, I would like to put these on, of course, by mentioning a paragraph, that the Secretary of State knows exactly what this is about. Article 4 A government official who is not a citizen and who has not previously been a national of the host State may be appointed for the provision of permanent external service. So far, according to the 2016 Act, this said that he is not a citizen of the host State. So what's now in the bill is that he wasn't even a citizen of the host state. I think that this may raise a number of questions in the first place, but if we look at the next point, in paragraph 1 (g), it has been laid down that, with the agreement of the Minister responsible for the management of civil national security services and civil intelligence activities, an exemption may be granted. So I don't understand why it had to be put in like this in the first place. In our view, this is not entirely credible, it is not entirely correct. 5. §: å The deporter may withdraw and terminate his permanent foreign service with immediate effect under point (d) of paragraph 5 without justification. I consider this to be not a bit dictatorial, but without a statement of reasons, which occurs in many places in the bill. So, by the way, the wording of this whole thing did not, by chance, take the democratic form, but rather the dictatorial one. Why is this without an explanation, whether in this passage or in any other place? Perhaps if it were to aim at excluding the public, it would even be acceptable in diplomatic cases in certain cases, but it should be put in a different way. In our view, this is questionable. Article 7 In Article 2, the posted consent is not required to amend the appointment or the posting document if the relocated person is transferred from official interest to another post or other permanent external service job on the basis of a unilateral decision of the head of the posting. This means that the relocated person can be transferred to another station without his consent. We are also talking about democracy, which is very far-fetched and only dictatorial. That's not fair. I think the least I can do is get the other party to listen. Article 16 is replaced by the following: In any case, when the temporary transfer or termination of the secondment is terminated or terminated, the government official shall continue to be employed, regardless of the agreement of the parties, with the governmental administrative body transferring or sending the transfer. Here's the thing: no matter what he might want, there's no story, whether he wants it or not, that's where he's going to be further employed. On the one hand, it is perfectly good and completely understandable, but here with the wording, I think there are serious problems. 17. §:. The delegation may be terminated without justification by a unilateral decision of the Head of the Ministry's Office or at the initiative of the host body. I do not repeat myself, again without the justification, although here it is written an explanation, instead of an explanation, I have just noticed this; again this is without the explanation. Only and only what the management and the external body decide must be so. Last one was the 21st. §; I have recorded a number of other paragraphs, but I would like to focus on them now. 21. The 2017 LXXII on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2018 is hereby repealed. Law. I don't know how this got here, what this has to do with the subject. [[8.50]] This Act, the 2017 LXXII Act. Law consists of 34 parts, and a total of one of them has something to do with what we're discussing, the 30th. It's about regulating the guest education scholarship program. Now, is that a typo, is that part of it you want to take out, or is it actually the whole law? Because it would still make sense if this bill provided for the guest education scholarship programme, then this law of 2017 would be amended and repealed, but that the whole law, which consists of 34 points, would become obsolete in this sense, is difficult to interpret. To sum up and perhaps repeat what I started with, we consider it extremely important to work in the foreign service, to work in the foreign service and to help the country's foreign policy and economy, so that we can do everything we can to achieve this, there must be a regulation that will help this, possibly based on an agreement between the two parties, and to the satisfaction of both parties. Of course, the country's best interests are paramount. These dictatorial points, I ask you to reconsider. I would like to ask the Secretary of State that the last mentioned was 21. See to it that it stands in its place. Jobbik supports all things that drive forward the country's effectiveness, but such dictatorial steps are considered. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the KDNP Group, Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, will be here to speak. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-19-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Deputy Minister and my fellow Member, Mr Barna Zsigmond, presented the bill in detail, and I would therefore like to highlight what I also consider important in relation to the bill and the amendment. I would like to start by saying that there is an extremely high level of commitment that can be expected from those working in foreign representations and permanent foreign service, which these amendments will facilitate. The following proposal to amend the Foreign Mission and the Permanent External Service Act is intended to ensure the proper functioning of the permanent external service system, in addition to the fundamental amendment of the rules relating to permanent external service. The purpose of the amendment to the Act referred to is, on the one hand, as Deputy Minister said, to create an appropriate legal environment, i.e. to implement the provisions of the law and to settle the practical experience of the application of the law at the legislative level. The amendments contained in the bill serve to ensure uniform application and thus make a significant contribution to the proper functioning of the single representation system. I would like to point out that certain titles, which have already been regulated, for the termination and termination of a permanent external service, and the list of individual items, will be clarified. Provisions on the legal institution for secondment from government interest will be drawn up in the amendment, taking into account the termination and termination of the relationship of government officials seconded to the seconded body for permanent external service for a limited period of time. The amendment allows him to be transferred from his assigned official interest to another post or other permanent foreign service job, even without his consent, as we have heard. However, the refusal of consent does not undermine the rights of the posted person, because the law allows him, as a guarantee rule, to apply for his appointment at any time without justification, either in the form of a joint agreement or in the form of a unilateral request. As a result of the experience of judicial proceedings, it is also necessary to amend the rules on final return with immediate effect. According to the amendment, a permanent external service may be withdrawn and terminated without justification in the event of a final return of immediate effect, there is no need for a separate indication and demonstration of the official interest in immediate final repatriation. Given that a permanent external service is a special type of public service and given the special nature of the Ministry, it can be said that a higher level of commitment can be expected from staff. According to the current amendment, a permanent external service may no longer be issued, not only by a person who is, as has been said at the moment, a national of the host State, but also by a person who has been a national of the host State at any time. With the agreement of the Minister for Civil National Security Services and the Minister responsible for the management of civil intelligence activities, the head of the deployment body may grant immunity from the condition related to previous citizenship, also mentioned by the Deputy Minister and my fellow Member. This amendment is necessary for security reasons and for the enforcement of diplomatic exemptions in the host State and for ensuring personal integrity in relation to external service life. The amendment, I would also point out that it introduces the terminology of the specialised Consul for special consular tasks. The continued expansion of the activities of those posted to permanent external service requires the creation of additional management, diplomatic and administrative posts. This means that the regional economic director and the regional IT manager will be created. At the same time, the regional administrator will be terminated. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, by adopting this amendment, temporary secondment of government officials who are affiliated with the Ministry to the budgetary body under the direction or supervision of the Minister for Foreign Affairs for Foreign Affairs is ensured for a limited period of time in the interest of foreign policy, foreign affairs administration or security. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal also includes, as Deputy Minister said, the necessary technical clarifications, which concern the extension of the scope of the law, eligibility for professional qualifications, conditions for posting to a permanent external service, the rules for temporary admission, the abolition of permanent external service by withdrawal of placement, and the multiplying numbers of job and rank classifications. The bill also ensures that the provisions of the Law on Government Administration are brought into line with the Law on Government Administration, taking into account the uniform and integrated institutional structure involved in the provision of public tasks for foreign affairs and foreign affairs, and therefore the KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-8	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Bősz Anett, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, First of all, thank you for the report and I must say that it is important to ensure the stability of the regulation of foreign services. There is no debate between us, but my fellow Member, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, mentioned that the previous bill was not voted by the parliamentary group of the Democratic Coalition alone, and that made it a little easier for me to say how and how I would like to say this speech to you, because I stand before you as President of the Hungarian Liberal Party, at the same time as the Deputy Head of the DK Group. It is important to say that our external affairs are hardly the subject of debate here in recent years. There is a significant lack of confidence between the opposition and the government, primarily because we see what my fellow Member Róbert Dudás has repeatedly referred to in his speech. In particular, we have found a highly centralised foreign policy and, in terms of foreign policy, a number of points that destroy our diplomatic relations. In this sense, however forward-looking proposals can be found in the legislative proposal, the entire foreign policy implementation, in which this is manifested, is unacceptable not only to the citizens of our country, but also to our external relations. That's why I don't think he's a good-natured Democrat who could take it. But to reflect on the current situation, and to tell you what this meant in practice, for example, for the epidemic situation: to send out scouts and raiders to Viktor Orbán in order to obtain respirators in Hungary, while to serve abroad in many parts of the world, those who were able to obtain respirators more effectively than we were, and thus to save the lives and health of the citizens of their country. [[9.00]] We often talk about the fact that without adequate professional and diplomatic skills, there is no foreign policy with any legislative proposal that would benefit our country. What we see is that the work of foreign representation, which has been centralised at several points and which only meets the central requirement, begins with sending out our compatriots who have good relations with Fides and KDNP, which simply does not allow these colleagues to work in a professional sense. This is why in the first wave of the epidemic, for example, Italians were able to obtain respirators ten times cheaper, but there was a point in the previous wave where Germany was to pay attention now! He's got ventilators 50 times cheaper than we do. This is the specific price; so I am talking about the price broken down per kilogram. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I look first of all at Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, who mentioned that DK was the one eye that did not previously support the law, and I think that the fundamental lack of trust on the part of the opposition to the government is not being eliminated by this legislative amendment proposal. In fact, as a number of paragraphs show, the kind of dictatorial foreign policy or foreign policy policy you have implemented over the past ten years, we cannot support it. I think that once party politics has flooded foreign policy, we can forget at the moment that they really know how to serve our country at foreign representations. These foreign representations must serve primarily our country and not the government. And for you, make no mistake, you are right that these, which are in the amendment proposal before us, are issues to be resolved, but we must first and foremost address global issues. And what we have to settle is that this foreign policy direction is indeed harmful to Hungarian society. So from now on, no matter how they amend the laws, this is not appropriate and it is not acceptable, because they move within the system. We should now leave this system, and if you do not discuss with us, such as the epidemiological measures, to talk about the external dimension, and what the delegations would have had to do in this, and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has provided this properly, so I think that we cannot debate about it and we cannot accept this legislative amendment. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-19-10	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, as the registered colleagues are not in the room. Therefore, two-minute speeches are now possible before further speeches are made by its Members. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-19-11	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I listened with interest to your exposé, which enabled me to come to the picture of the government's intention, which was then repeated and confirmed by Hajnalka Juhász. And what my fellow Member thinks is critical and a matter to be clarified. I'm the 17th. I would like to address the questions of Section 2 of the Act, which says so, and I quote the justification:. The amendment, introducing a new legal institution, regulates the case where the employment of a government official with another body is justified for a limited period of time in the interest of foreign policy, administrative or foreign security. If I remember correctly, Mr Secretary of State has highlighted the Information Office as an institution for which this employment is justified. The question I am asking is that when there has been a doubt about the fact that someone is in an information office status and is also serving as a foreign representation, the assurance was that this status has ceased. Therefore, I do not understand the reason why this was necessary, and to be specific, and terminology is not exactly James Bond-type, but it still indicates, as the information office may call those at the Information Office, that they are intelligence. So if this becomes legal and official now by the government, can Hungary be accused of sending intelligence officers to diplomats? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm asking you to answer my question; I may be misinterpreting it.
u2020-11-19-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No one came forward for another two-minute speech. I am now giving the floor to Members who have applied for a speech in a normal time frame. A speech will be made by Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, I am shocked, to be honest, that this particular law is again before the House, and let me say that it has been amended for the 12th time since its entry into force in August 2016. By the way, nothing shows that this law is completely unnecessary, unnecessary, and is much more confusing in the whole external service system than it is a solution to the fact that we are talking about so many technical amendments, and 90 percent of the amendments are again full of technical amendments. They change words and arrange all sorts of technical things. What is it that you really need? Well, I'm sure it's not the law. So I would also like to say in this debate that, if we have the opportunity to do so in the area of foreign affairs, this law will be among the first to be repealed immediately, because not only is it completely unnecessary, but it even makes the work most difficult. What did they do? So far, the Foreign Service Government decree has been brought to the legal level. I don't know who this guy had in the government or even in the State Department, that with such an endless accounting attitude, certainly creating the appearance of hard work, with great respect, maybe someone had nothing better to do, thought that such a law was necessary. There is a need for an Foreign Affairs Act and Foreign Affairs Service Act; this is certainly not what we have here. It does not contain questions concerning legislation, so as to ensure that, in essence, the daily practice that shows experience must come before the House on a regular basis and that it needs to be refined regularly. What goes far enough is that, by the way, certain rules are not already harmonised in this law, nor are they consistent with other laws, such as the Law on Government Administration, it is not clear what should be applied at all in the context of this law, nor is it harmonised with the Law on Public Service Officers. So it would really be worth looking at; we are proposing to repeal this law, and we really need a substantive Foreign Service Act based on practice and obviously agreed with the stakeholders. Let me mention a few small examples to support this. For example, now, instead of talking about some foreign policy strategy of the government, unfortunately, it does not appear to the government at all, there is no foreign policy at all, unfortunately only a commercial-minded foreign policy is seen; instead, they arrange such things as how a member of the family travelling with it is counted and classified. And I, with a few amendments to the law, indicated that we were really beginning to see the color of the curtain as to how it would be chosen at foreign representations in this law. Really, with a little exaggeration, we're almost there. I think, by the way, that it was a huge conceptual mistake, for example, to remove the permanent representation of the EU from the single representation, and it is clear what the consequences of this are, and with this law they are trying to align them somewhat, but in essence a much more opaque operation, a more opaque set of rules is being created. This will be permanently absolutely untenable. The specifics raised here in the expoze, or my fellow Members, have mentioned, for example, this point that a government official cannot be placed on the market if he is a national or a former national of a given country and can be exempted from it. [[9.10]] It's really a frivolous rule to grant such a waiver. Then figure it out. If this intention, which could be a good intention, then from now on, who was a citizen before, must be called back, then it must be resolved, but the fact that they are already looking for excuses, they give relief, it is simply frivolous, and it does not work. For example, there is the situation of guest educators, their inclusion in this law with a separate paragraph. This is also perfectly fine, but it does not make it absolutely clear what their relationship with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is at all with the institution responsible for cultural diplomacy. So we're looking at another job. If we are talking about secondment, my fellow Member Dudás mentioned this, and also Mr Balczó, for example, there is no mention here, Mr Deputy Minister, of any external service. So it is not mentioned here at all that this applies to the foreign service that has been written into the law. That may have been the intention, but I would like to point out that this is not the text of the law. So, at the moment, this does not concern foreign service, but essentially domestic. Overall, I would like to emphasise again and I think that Amendment 12 is nothing compared to the number of amendments we will see to this law here in the next year and a half that this is not what is needed. I am sure you can see that you are constantly coming before this House, because there is always something new, something that is not working properly, that is not properly regulated. These technical things have nothing to do with a law, nothing. So if there was someone who might have insisted that this was absolutely necessary, then with him, I think it would be worth telling him that it does not work just for the sake of practice. A uniform, well-functioning Foreign Service Act is needed to sum up experience. Therefore, just as we have never supported the original bill itself or the amendments that have been made since then, we will not support this now either. And once again, one of the first ones will be this law, which we will repeal in the field of foreign affairs, and we will create a proper, well-functioning, single foreign service law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-19-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-19-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond very briefly to some previous opposition contributions. Róbert Dudás, my better friend, urged that there should be as many Hungarian representations in the world as possible. I think that this call meets the government's goals, because it is worth examining how many new Hungarian foreign representations have opened since 2010, and more than 50, but the Secretary of State is likely to have an accurate number. So in that sense, I'm glad that you like what the government has done in recent years in the foreign policy dimension or in that, too. This dictatorial versus democratic labour law or government law is linked to the fact that the foreign affairs profession is not a generally regulated profession, it is a special legal status, there are special situations, there are special circumstances. Therefore, the employer must have the means to provide for situations in which the lives of Hungarian citizens or the help of Hungarian citizens are involved, and there must be instruments outside the classic labour law. Reference was made to the 2017 LXXII. Law. I've looked at the legislation, almost every pass of this is repealed, it's worth looking at, so it's only the part to which it applies. So, although it is misleading by its title, there is hardly any passage in that legislation, there are only two or three paragraphs still in force. My colleague, Mr Anett, held a political expo. I stated factually that the Gyurcsány Party did not vote in favour of the legislation. I've lost the rating, but I'll do it now, because you said that the Fidesz government is conducting a destructive foreign policy, and it's unacceptable for you to have the foreign policy that the Orbán government is doing. I think it is necessary to confront you once again by refusing to install migrants on Hungary, so that is still acceptable to you. You continue to want to go against the will of the Hungarian people, and the reason why Hungarian foreign policy is dislikable is because we do not want migrants to be deployed in Hungary. And you probably don't like the God, home, family, paradigm we work in. And I don't think I like the fact that Hungary wants to preserve its national sovereignty. You are against this, so it is understandable that you do not like the foreign policy that the government is pursuing. He continued to criticize the defense of the Orbán government. I would also like to remind you that you have not supported the government's actions, you have constantly criticized the defence. And that's straight up, I don't know what grade to use, maybe it's tasteless when it comes to the Italian example. Perhaps we all remember the street scenes in bergamo when they were carrying the deceased in trucks, and you referred to the Italian example here as an example of protection. [[Avengers: No! That's not true. It's not like that! The president's ringing the bell.]] I do not want to see this in Hungary, and thanks to the government's measures, we avoided those situations. Maybe we all remember, so it was probably a bad reference on your part, because I don't suppose that's what you meant. [[Anett's intruding. The president's ringing the bell.]] He said, in this context, that the foreign service workers are not serving the country, they are serving politics. I suggest you apologize to over a thousand government officials serving Hungary, as they serve your country in very difficult circumstances. And you said you accused them of not serving your country. Apologize to them, I suggest. My fellow Member, Mr Demeter, said that the new Foreign Service Act was disturbing. I think you should talk to people at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, how they experience that their circumstances are finally settled, that they are finally in a clean environment, that they can finally serve their country, that Hungarian foreign policy finally has results both in terms of foreign policy and in terms of economics. He spoke of a commercial foreign policy, but never so many people worked in Hungary, and the foreign economic activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is crucial in the fact that today Hungary is where it is, we have such good economic results. The fact that they want to repeal the law, I don't know what law they want. The fact that something is quickly canceled or something is quickly liquidated has a history in Hungarian history, it usually doesn't end well when it comes to such things. For guest educators, for example, the use of health services is regulated by the legislation. I think it's a very important area, I'm sure for guest educators, maybe not for you, but for them, these are important issues. As I understand it, you said why this issue is regulated by law. We are constantly accused of regulation governance, dictatorship, regulation of all regulations, and the problem is that we regulate the law. Let them decide, then, what is your position now, that there must be regulation in a regulation or in a law. [[Zoltán Balczó: Depends!]] What we can and consider important, which is a fundamental issue, is regulated by law. All in all, I say that the law has stood the test of time. Life goes forward, so sometimes it has to be modified, these tiny changes are included in the law, which life is justified in recent times. I ask for your support for the legislation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, So that I can comment towards the end of the debate, I can also respond to some of the comments made in the debate. And sometimes I might argue with opposition representatives. I do not agree with the principle that there should be as many embassies as possible, I think that there should be as many embassies as possible that can effectively represent Hungary's national interests, because if we create an embassy to put one of our friends there as ambassadors, and, by the way, we should never hear about the work of that embassy again, then I think that this is a waste of public money. If, on the other hand, it serves a national interest or an economic interest that is essential, then I think it is, of course, worth increasing the number of these embassies. To be perfectly fair, what I can tell you is that the current State Department has done this and that. In English, there was indeed an embassy extension, which I thought was justified, but there was one that didn't, and maybe that makes my attitude quite clear. [[9.20]] I would say that this is now regulated by law or regulation, I think that would be totally irrelevant. Indeed, it is true that almost 80-85 percent of this law was previously in a regulation, it still worked, so it really doesn't matter whether it is a law or a regulation from the point of view of life or daily practice, but I agree that if you have already started to make a law, then it would be worth doing it well. I am thinking not only that it has been changed 12 times, but that life has not changed since 2016 so much that if this law had been perfected for the first time, it would have to be touched so many times, even using word exchanges, because if word has to be exchanged, it is probably not because of the world's change, but because something has been written wrong. However, I think that there is a need for a law that regulates this external service and foreign affairs, so basically by making it legal, as my fellow Members have said, it is possible to agree. I'd also argue that you can't see the government's foreign policy but! The problem is that you can see very much the government's foreign policy, in the sense that from our point of view, that's the problem, because I don't agree with a lot of things in person what they're doing. If it weren't for you, we wouldn't have anything to argue about, so we could just say they're lazy, and then why don't they do something? What I see is that they are doing exactly a lot of things that I think we should not do as foreign policy, that our international relations are basically being destroyed, that Hungary's ability to assert its national interests is being destroyed, and that this constant struggle that foreign representations or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are currently representing, I do not think it will have the desired effect. There is a good reason and place for Hungarian internal political consumption, but the fact that the foreign minister sent the elected President of the United States of America to the Wonder may not necessarily help to build Hungarian-American relations immediately, and we could quote a number of other statements, which are certainly excellent for Hungarian internal political use, but if we look at it professionally only, if we look at it from the perspective of Hungary's external relations and therefore look at it from the point of view of our ability to assert interest, then I think that this foreign policy really has a number of harmful effects, and that Hungary's view has been greatly deteriorated in many places, which, of course, will never be accepted by the current Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would also like to point out, because I know a lot of diplomats, that I would not dare to claim that Hungarian diplomats are not serving their country or their nation. I would rather say the opposite, that most, and certainly not a hundred percent, so if criticism is said to be that there are political appointees who represent not the interests of their country, but the interests of party politics, then I can say that I agree with this statement, or at least put this before it. If I am promissory, I say that they believe that the representation of this party political interest is in the national interest, but basically I also believe that Hungarian diplomats abroad are essentially in the national interest, essentially serving the interests of the country and the interests of the citizens of the country, and sometimes making this work difficult for political reasons, but these diplomats are not responsible for them, but those who set such political goals or requirements before them. And all they can do is carry out these instructions, as appropriate. My problem with this proposal is, indeed, the last time we abstained from the debate on the original bill, precisely because of these reasons, that we think we could have such a law, 85 percent of it was the same as in a government decree, it is true that the remaining 15 percent was not so good, so we abstained. Now, however, we will say no to this bill, which is because the rights of workers are greatly violated, so that what many Members have said here, that they can appoint without justification, we do not need to ask the person where they are being transferred, which we do not think is acceptable. I think that this fits into the pace that we have seen several times from the Hungarian Foreign Minister, namely that he said last time that we did not play union in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; or he said that he did not allow anyone to have any home office, no matter how the virus ravages; or that just when there were leaks, a leak of information from the Ministry, that was perhaps the opinion of one of the State Secretarys, or that the minister himself seems not to have fired enough people from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to stop these leaks. So what I see is that the whole attitude goes in such a military direction. It seems that the Prime Minister's style is sticky with regard to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, he thinks that he is also leading the military, so he thinks that these people are actually puppets, and as generals or small generals or vice generals, I don't know how to say he can play with these people and push them on the chessboard as he pleases. We don't think that's right. My fellow Member, Sigismund, said that the world has changed a lot. Yes, it has changed a lot, and today there are workers' rights, for example, which we like to represent as left-wing parties. So that's not acceptable. You can order someone, you can order someone home, and sometimes you have to order them home, as you've seen the last time, like the example of a pedophile ambassador, that they did so well in the Constitutional Protection Office that they sent them to the ambassador. The Information Office has done its job so well that it has not been able to detect that this person has stored tens of thousands of paedophiles on his office laptop, so yes, this person must be ordered home quickly, but it can be justified: we ordered him home because he was a paedophile, and so far we have not been able to detect him. So what I think about the lack of justification and the military attitude is that we're about to have to carry a gun for diplomats instead of a pen, so we think that this law is going in the wrong direction. We could have taken this law in the right direction, it could have been improved a lot, or it could have been improved in the context of Amendment 11 and now in the context of Amendment 12, but this is certainly not the case. Therefore, the MSZP will not support this law now. What my fellow Member Zsigmond said was that something is being removed so quickly, and it is the past: it is a pity that he has not been here in the debates of the last few days, because when we discussed the Equal Treatment Authority, it is difficult to say that important impact studies, thought-out, after long planning, after many professional debates, are difficult, but they have made the decision to plow the Equal Treatment Authority. Instead, what happened was that they had thought of one, and then for political reasons, it now fits with this homophobic approach, which is used here in connection with various laws, so this authority was plowed quickly. It didn't take long, my fellow Member, they did it from one moment to the next. So if a law can be changed, or if you say it cannot be changed from one moment to the next, then it is probably not possible to make such decisions, or even to make proposals by Members that are passed through the House within 24 hours or 48 hours, in which there are amendments that fundamentally rewrite the life of families or the operating conditions of various economic sectors, just because they have a party political interest or the financial interests of one of their friends are serving it. So we certainly do not accept this lecture by ourselves about what can and may not be done in connection with a legislative amendment. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2020-11-19-18	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Dudás, Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-19-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Sigmond, for the answer. I'll tell you frankly, I expected it from the Secretary of State, but if you've already done that, then let me respond to a few thoughts. He said that we should trust that this bill will stand the test of time. My fellow Member, after his adoption three or four years ago, as several of my fellow Members have mentioned, we are talking about Amendment 12. So, most likely, in the year and a half ahead of us, as has been mentioned, this will probably come back, if only with small modifications, but they will bring it back, because they are about to replace something in it. Article 2 I didn't ask Mr. Secretary of State about Art. [[9.30]] We introduce the term "consul" and this terminology. We have also heard this from several candidates during the hearings of ambassadorial candidates for the last weeks and months, and it is highly likely that they have the right to appoint a specialised consultant for various tasks, and they will discuss this with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade; this has probably happened and may be due to this. But let me get a few things straight. What does consular staff mean? Employed by a diplomat, government official or foreign representation acting on a foreign mission under sectoral legislation. Professional diplomat: a diplomat who performs a sectoral professional task of a government administration at foreign representations. And then it might be a little too much, but I'm still trying to tell you, and I'm trying to get an answer to that: if the consul is a professional diplomat who performs consular duties, doesn't he belong to the consular staff rather than to his activities? Furthermore, if the consular staff is doing consular work on a basic basis, it is not necessarily understandable to me what the specialist consult is about. It's basically like getting the consul and the graduating degree together, which became a specialist consul. But if this is justified, there is no problem with that, but I think that if a new terminology is introduced, then it should be explained a little more seriously, so that it is clear to everyone. For one thought, I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Mesterházy, who expressed criticism about the number of embassy and consular stations in my direction. You're absolutely right, and by the way, I'm thinking the same thing, I'm saying it wrong. Effectiveness must be targeted, and efficiency is not necessarily in the number of stations, if that is what it is, then it should be, but we all know that it is not necessarily, that we must aim to enable our diplomats to do effective foreign service work in the interests of the Hungarian nation in many parts of the world as much as possible. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anett Bősz, DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond for his contribution, because through this I have understood how the articles of the Pest Guys are about to be prepared from the speeches that we are making here in front of this House. Here's the recipe: you have to spin about every half sentence, lie about it, and then spill it on it. [[Dr. Zsigmond Brown Paul: 444!]] With the text panels that you falsely accuse the opposition of. So thank you very much, because this is a good method, and then I really understand how journalists work on this, and you do, too. I have given you facts, my honourable fellow Member, that we have acquired ventilators ten times more expensive than Italians and fifty times more expensive than Germans; these are figures, Congressman; and you have said that I mention the Italian disease treatment, which is not the case, in this sense you have lied in your speech. At the same time, I would like to say that 713 deaths were in Italy with a size of 60 million people the day before yesterday, and that in our country, which is not a total of 10 million, the number of deaths has been around 100 for days, so in this sense, the Italian epidemic treatment that you have just destroyed is about as unsuccessful as the one that you are now in the country. Well, that's a good thing to keep in the record. I also think that when we talk about it, as you have mentioned my speech, that it is tasteless, I ask you to look into your notes, that if you want to find distasteful, you will find plenty. Thank you.
u2020-11-19-22	Thank you. Dear Parliament, No one came forward for another two-minute speech. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has now asked for the floor in a normal time frame. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would not like to respond to Mr Zsigmond's comments in the field of foreign affairs, because it seems that I do not know not to talk to the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that he does not necessarily observe this area, but I strongly recommend that you talk to those who work at your foreign representations and ask what they think about this law, which is being debated here in the House, and what direction they have been driving their lives around, because they are dealing with everything about property rentals through the sale, but, by the way, they do not have time for foreign representation. So you should talk to them. However, if the protection against the epidemic has already been brought here, it should be stressed that the debate of this law is now in this Parliament, and they have worked in the ministry or God knows where this law is, to bring in these tiny technical amendments, which should not otherwise be regulated by law, that the government should absolutely not be dealing with this, but with the protection against the epidemic. And this whole week is terrible, and it shows how much the fate of the Hungarian people is of interest to the government, because there have been nearly a hundred, and unfortunately there have been days when more than a hundred people died because of the coronal virus epidemic, and instead of the government being occupied with this, how to save as many Hungarian people as possible, how to take steps in health care and in the economy to make it easier for people to ensure their health, the best possible care and the most that can be done in such a situation, because we are really talking about an emergency, an emergency, instead of bringing this bill to Parliament. You have no business here in the first place, but now there's nothing to do with the amendment of the basic law or the amendment of the electoral law, nothing, even if they're horribly afraid of losing their power in 2022. Then perhaps we should work for the people rather than use laws to try to fool around; and certainly not at this time, because unfortunately they have nothing to do with the fight against the epidemic. And if we are talking about the protection against the epidemic, then what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has in connection with, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say to Mr Deputy Minister, for example, economic measures. There's ThyssenKrupp. On 25 May 2020, you handed over the grant agreement to the CEO of the Hungarian subsidiary company, which would try to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic, obviously you would have tried to get fewer people dismissed otherwise. Well, it looks like this isn't working, we'll see. However, if you are here, I would like to ask you to do this today's news, by the way, that ThyssenKrupp will be cutting down five thousand people in addition to the 6,000 that have already been announced, and it is not yet known how many people in the Hungarian subsidiary will be sent to do everything, Mr. Secretary, that if you go out of here, the first thing you should do is to do everything in your power not to dismiss people from this company here in Hungary, because you have given this company money, not even little. And by the way, this is not the first time you've been supporting multinational companies again, national capital banks again, as I've really been bored to bring up, I must mention Lőrinc Mészáros, who received nearly 20 billion forints by sending 850 people out in the middle of the spring coronal virus epidemic, firing these people, and charging nearly 20 billion forints, plus, by the way, multi-corporates. It's not the right policy. This is not the right policy! People should be supported, small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported, which are otherwise suffering during the epidemic, and the operation of these smaller companies, self-employed ones, will be at great risk. We know that in some regions, despite the fact that a multi-company is set up there, despite the fact that it creates 500 to 600 jobs, which, of course, sounds very good in one place, and there are certainly some people on the ground who are happy about this, that is the fact that the 500 to 600 people can be placed there, on the one hand, these are not crisis-resistant jobs, and we are again in the middle of a crisis, and unfortunately this is the 21st. For the time being, at least, the crisis is a crisis, and this must be prepared; then we need to create an economic structure and put the money in that money that can actually protect jobs. But the real retention force in these regions would not be this couple, so to speak, located in knots and frequented jobs, but precisely small and medium-sized enterprises, to keep young people in those counties and regions, to start a family there, to work there, to employ other people there, not to have to travel another five or six towns or villages to have a job. Get appropriate vocational training, be a suitable school, and multi-businesses take part in training. It's a condition, Mr. Secretary. When ThyssenKrupp received state aid, on what condition did it receive, what was expected of this company, what conditions were imposed? [[9.40]] Because it is possible to impose conditions on these big companies, and it is even a dog's duty to do the XXI. To set conditions for a government in the interests of the people in the century. So, if we're talking about the fight against the epidemic, there are, unfortunately, huge shortcomings there. It is a huge responsibility for the government to spend x time, for example, with this foreign policy law, I don't even know what it is anymore, because otherwise it is a collection of technical things, it is a lexicon, and it is not good for any practical thing to create or modify, they have spent time doing so, and not even more effectively to protect against the epidemic. So, Mr. Secretary of State, I ask that, in the interests of the Hungarian people, in this particular case, which I have mentioned, in the case of ThyssenKrupp, but in all the other cases, where such large multinational companies have been supported, or will be supported, because I am sure that this will continue to be the priority of the government, I think, this is the price of something else, at least that if they do not change that, because it seems that they will not change, and then in a year and a half, I think that there will be an opportunity to change that, and we will, but in the meantime, to impose conditions, and prevent this company from sending Hungarians in particular. Thank you. [[Anett's clapping.]]
u2020-11-19-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Member that there is a general debate on foreign representations and permanent external service. I now give the floor for a two-minute speech to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-19-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to reply very briefly to my fellow Member, Mr Anett. I looked at my notes, and you said: destructive foreign policy, the Hungarian government did not help the defence, and you said that our diplomats are not serving the country, not the nation. I said what I said, that it was tasteless, and that statement had to be corrected even by my fellow Member, Mr Mesterházy, because there is no basis for this statement. And while I do not like these statistics, the number of deaths, which is dramatic, every single death in Italy this year is 759, in Hungary 346. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Mesterházy, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-19-27	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that my fellow Member Anett Bősz has had ample reason to say that those who, as the Prime Minister used to refer to false news or so-called fake news, have lost 109 redress lawsuits in 2018, while all the other media have lost 14 numbers. I think it's a talking number. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask you, perhaps only for the record, but I would like to ask you to be kind to the Deputy Minister, do so by responding to what has been said in the debate. Mr Zsigmond's position and opinion on our speeches, most of all, and on the general political situation, but it would be good to hear a reaction from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to say this here because I think it is a very bad practice that, in essence, when the debate is closed, the representative of the government will say anything about what has been said and we can no longer respond to it. So if we've been sitting here for an hour and a half with this law, and we've been arguing, and by the way, I think we've had some real elements, so we've had specific professional questions, even in relation to placement and other specifics, citizenship, etc., we really should be able to respond to them in a meaningful way, so that if that's the case, then we can still answer that. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-30	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Levente Magyar, who obviously wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for this opportunity and thank you for the opposition and pro-government comments and criticisms. There have been thematically wide-ranging comments and I feel that we have turned to the end somewhat off the original subject, but I will try to reflect briefly on all the points that have been made. Let us begin, perhaps, when I have received a special call for reflection on the comments made by Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I would like to point out to the congresswoman that, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade this year, the government has mobilised HUF 355 billion to compensate for the economic difficulties caused by the epidemic and specifically to help the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, and nearly a thousand Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises have been given the opportunity to move forward, expand their investments, expand their activities and start building foreign relations, despite the difficulties caused by the epidemic. We are talking about HUF 355 billion, even at the current weak forint exchange rate. I think, Congresswoman, that attacking the government because it does not help SMEs is unfair in the light of such a number, and especially if you look at the measures taken by the countries around us, then it turns out that this comparison is not just about self-worth, I think it is a serious effort by the country. After all, we used the Hungarian taxpayers' money to help Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, targeted at Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. It is clear that large foreign-owned Hungarian production companies will also receive support if they create jobs in Hungary, if they invest, including ThyssenKrupp, which has made very serious investments in Hungary in recent years, is in preparation for further investments, and the investment is already under way, creating hundreds of new jobs. We are not talking to ThyssenKrupp about how many Hungarian workers he is sending away, but how many hundreds of new Hungarian workers he will employ. My request to the Member is that, if you are already so critical of the government's policy to support foreign investors, you should not confuse the international situation of one of the largest steel companies in the world with the situation in which your investments in the automotive industry in Hungary are in and to be informed by the Member before saying something that is not due to reality, in this respect, as I have just mentioned in the context of your criticism of the support of SMEs. As a general remark, now back to the original subject, the Foreign Service Act, let me say with respect that there is no complete consistency between the substance and content of opposition speeches. After the opposition has merged into a monolithic block against the ruling party, let me expect it in this way, or let me reflect, if their speeches are in stark contrast with each other, even in relation to the same person... [[Zoltán Balczó: We are not a block! Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] Congressman, they've obviously become one, but they'll discuss this among themselves. My general point is that if, on the one hand, foreign minister workers are feared by strict labour regulations, placement, recall and relocation regulations, on the other hand, three seconds later, they claim that we are sending Fidesz party soldiers as diplomats, then where is the logic in this? [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] Are the party political candidates now feared or the excellent Hungarian diplomats representing national interests? My request is that you think about it and make comments that I can tell you? meet the logical, intellectual basic requirements [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] 'Cause I can't find consistency in that. As regards the content of Hungarian foreign policy, I am not sure that this should be discussed in connection with this bill, but if more opposition representatives have been kind enough to comment on this, let me respond briefly. There is no doubt that the Hungarian foreign policy is under such opposition fire because there is a whole fire, there is Hungarian foreign policy, as opposed to the years, decades when you and your spiritual and political predecessors, during the period of the MSZMP, everything about Hungary could be said only that it had an independent foreign policy, not that. [[9.50]] Honourable right-wing Members and ladies, ladies and gentlemen of the MSZP and DK representatives, in Hungary in the decades after the Second World War, we could not speak of independent Hungarian foreign policy, and your party and predecessors after the regime change were invisible in the spirit of the same policy, and they represented Hungary invisibly on the international scene. They had so much that they classified me as the warmest or most shadowy host, but we could not speak of sovereign Hungarian foreign policy during the periods you ruled. That's what I think it is now. And the fact that the foreign minister responds to the accusation of the American presidential candidate that Hungary is a totalitarian dictatorship is appropriate and meets the most fundamental requirements of national sovereignty and national pride. If you don't like it, it says a lot about your attitude. Since World War II, you have become accustomed to the fact that Hungary should receive as much as possible from abroad in a negative way, and in some strange way you think that Hungary represents its international interests in a way that is adequate if it completely renounces them and lets them abuse the country. Dear Speakers, In short, about the content of our bill; if I may, I would turn here. The most serious issue on which several comments have been made may be that we would tighten up the rule that applies to former citizens in the host state who wish to serve abroad in that State. I think that this is a well-founded issue from a national security point of view. And I would also like to say to Mrs Márta Demeter, who is also well founded, that we are not going to make such an exception to those colleagues who do not have the criteria that might arise for others. So we do not completely close this door, we leave it open in the event that if the ministers supervising the secret services decide that there is no national security condition that would prevent the person from being accredited in that country. However, we are, of course, willing to consider all constructive criticisms and, if necessary, to revise our proposal. I think we can talk about how we need to deal with this issue in particular at the legislative level. I am open to it, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is open to considering the inclusion of it in lower-level legislation. However, I do not think that the substantive amendment is justified, but I will also say this to Mr Sigismund, because it concerns many people. With regard to the abolition without justification and the possibility of relocation without consent, I would like to say this, and this is linked to the points raised in recent years by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its network that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Affairs Network have undergone a significant increase since 2014. This may be expressed in numerical terms in the fact that the State Department's budget did not reach HUF 100 billion at the height of 2014, and today it is approaching HUF 400 billion. It can also be seen from this that there has been a significant additional task and competence in foreign affairs, and accordingly we have expanded our foreign and foreign economic network and our number of foreign representations. That's what the numbers were for. I'd like to say the order of magnitude here. If I count the consular offices that we are now opening up in many parts of the world, then we can find that, compared to the situation in 2014, we represent Hungary's interests in the world by about twice as many foreign representations as we did six years ago. It also includes the fact that since 2014, the personnel of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have changed significantly, and we work in about three quarters with new colleagues, who were not employees of the house before 2014. All these circumstances justify the need to touch the relatively permissible rules of placement, relocation, calling home and move towards tightening up, as the larger the system, the more national security issues and circumstances we need to take into account. In particular, they justify the possibility, where appropriate, of transferring without justification or calling home without justification. We may be able to conclude this issue here. And I would like to go back there again, my request is that you decide to accuse us of using party soldiers all over the world, who represent only the interests of Fidesz and not his country, or who are concerned about the fate of the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it is not consistent to do both things at the same time. [[Tibor Nunkovics: Each party has a different opinion.]] Mr. Congressman was not here, there were contradictory opinions on the part of the same party. I would like to stress that we can take the comments seriously if the logic in them is at least traceable. Why was this law even necessary? This law was needed in 2016 because it had not been done before, and we thought that the issues that were settled here deserve legal regulation. The Foreign Service Act was born in 2016, and since then it has indeed been amended several times, but I think it is better to amend the law, partly because of dynamic extra tasks, because of the changing world, and indeed because of adjustments, than not to touch it, and, where appropriate, to leave outdated rules in it, or rules that do not keep pace with age requirements. I'll take the ode that we've touched it more than once, and we might still touch it. This is a new regulatory system that requires fine-tuning. I hope that we will have to open this issue more and less in the future, now that we have missed these previously, but we are trying to resolve these issues with emphasis through the amendments. I would not mention technical questions here, but I would like to reflect on the point raised by the better Member on how the previous amendment to the law on guest education is being made. I will examine this issue. Obviously, we're not repealing the whole law, we're repealing the relevant pass. If we have to correct it in the text, we will, of course, do so. Let's consider this a technical issue. The debate that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and then I would return to the foreign policy issues of content for how much he bought respirators in the spring is not necessarily to be conducted here, but it certainly does not stand up to the fact that the Western countries had on average 50 times cheaper access to respirators than we did. We bought machines cheap, bought machines expensive, just as we could access them in an extremely tumultuose market environment and conditionality. At the same time, I think that the colleagues have sustained and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not concluded any contracts that would then have been seriously difficult to fulfil. So I didn't lose any taxpayers' money, so I can tell you that right here. Once again, as a summary, after an extraordinary increase in the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade in recent years, our external relations network has expanded in an extraordinary way, the portfolio has undergone a huge personal transformation. This justifies a tighter order of administration and management. In general, the special circumstances of foreign affairs justified the application of the rules of placement, recall and relocation to tightening up. [[10.00]] Believe us that we are guided primarily and solely by the requirement and principle of better representation of national interests when we propose such amendments. I think that those who enter the field of foreign service, who represent Hungary to the outside world, must have a great responsibility, a sense of professionalism, a paramilitary order as traditionally the world of foreign affairs, so they can abide by these strict rules and serve the national interests, as everyone understands and understands. Let me reflect on Mr Balczó's point of view on the Information Office. It sounds to me, honourable Member, that the quoted item is that it will be possible for a government official working in the KKM and previously serving as a permanent representative of Hungary to the European Union to be transferred to the Information Office without the need to terminate his relationship with the sending body. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So, obviously, this concerns domestic relations, so if you're on the Bem quay, why shouldn't you have a legal relationship? [[Zoltán Balczó: Okay!]] the Information Office, too. I thought it was important to clarify that. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I tried to answer the questions that were raised to the best of my ability. The debate on the content of Hungarian foreign policy was only partly affected and partly reflected on what was said. I think that there is a forum for discussing these issues, and the possibility of such a fundamentally technical amendment may not be the most appropriate time to do so. Of course, every single comment in which the constructivity can be seen is recorded, and we will examine these where necessary, we are ready to amend the text of the law, and we are ready for further debates on the draft law. I hope we don't have to touch the Foreign Service Act for the next year and a half. Obviously, we're not doing this as a hobby, but because we're being led by a desire to improve what we're doing, but I think that this topic is pretty much rounded down, and it doesn't have to be opened until the 2022 elections. Once again, we organised a 30-year-old guarantee under the Foreign Service Act, when the House accepted it in 2016, and we are doing a last or last step in its fine-tuning, I hope, with this amendment. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-19-32	I thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the right of residence of citizens of the United Kingdom and their families until closure follows in view of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. Government referral T/13652. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Magyar Levente, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-11-19-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The United Kingdom, as is well known, withdrew from the European Union at midnight on 31 January 2020, but, under the exit agreement, during the transitional period until the end of this year, the EU's legislation will continue to apply in the British context. This legislation includes the right to free movement and residence. Throughout the process of the Brexit negotiations, the Hungarian Government has paid particular attention to the fact that neither the acquired rights of our fellow Hungarian citizens in the United Kingdom nor the rights of British citizens in our country can be violated in any scenario. The exit agreement shall also ensure, after the end of the transitional period, that the rights acquired by EU citizens under the right of free movement during the UK's EU membership are maintained. The beneficiaries of the agreement retain their right to stay long-term, EU citizens such as Hungarian citizens in the United Kingdom and British citizens in the European Union, including in our country. The relevant implementing rules are established at national level. On the basis of the exit agreement, EU Member States will have until 31 December 2020 to legislate national rules on the right of residence of British nationals and their third-country family members living in that Member State for beneficiaries who have acquired the right of residence by the end of this year. In our country, the affected staff, i.e. the British community, is five thousand persons in scale. When drawing up this proposal to Parliament, it was a priority that legal status should be settled by applying the legal status existing in domestic foreign law. The proposal provides for the possibility for those concerned to obtain a permit to reside in Hungary under favourable conditions, with which they can continue to stay in Hungary and enjoy substantially unchanged rights in all areas of everyday life, both in terms of employment, education and health. The duration of the application option would be one year from the date of entry into force of the law and thus from 1 January 2021 until 31 December 2021. This date complies with the principle of reciprocity and is even particularly favourable to British citizens living in our country, as foreigners arriving in the United Kingdom under EU law, including Hungarian citizens, can register in the island country until 30 June 2021. Pending the acquisition of a new status, documents previously issued to those concerned shall retain their validity. Family members of established UK nationals with whom the relationship existed and continues to exist before the end of the transitional period may join the United Kingdom nationals by obtaining a national residence permit. It is important to point out that the proposal proposes legislation on beneficiaries of residence rights by the end of this year and does not affect the legal status of UK nationals and their family members who subsequently apply for residence. New arrivals after 1 January 2021 shall be subject to the legislation applicable to third-country nationals. It should also be pointed out that the regulation under the proposal is not substantially linked to the negotiations on future relations between the Union and the United Kingdom. Dear Parliament, The most important Hungarian government goal on Brexit has been achieved, as the acquired rights of Hungarian citizens living in the United Kingdom have been protected. This logic is in line with this, and in order to fulfil the international obligation arising from the exit agreement, it is necessary to amend the law before this House, which confirms that the Hungarian Government considers all British citizens living in our country as high added value not only in an economic but also in a social sense. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal to ensure the right of residence of citizens of the United Kingdom and their family members after the transitional period. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-19-34	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-19-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr. Secretary. On 31 December this year, the transitional period of the exit agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom will expire, during which the citizens of the United Kingdom and their family members may still acquire and exercise their right of residence under Union law in Hungary. The main objective of the proposal before us is to provide British citizens who are still staying under EU law with a preferential residence permit for one year after the expiry of the deadline, i.e. until 31 December 2021. This discount option will be granted to 5,000 people, the vast majority of whom have been living in Hungary for more than three years. They have come to Hungary enjoying the simple rules of free movement and residence between EU Member States, settled, settled, and live their lives among us. [[10.10]] However, by leaving the United Kingdom from the European Union, they would suddenly find themselves in a group with third-country nationals coming to Hungary from the point of view of their right of establishment and residence. It is therefore necessary, in their interest, to provide for a preferential transitional option. During the one-year period, data subjects may apply for a national residence permit under a non-cost-free procedure, in which case they will not assess the length of the previous stay, the existence of conditions for housing, livelihoods and health insurance, and the interests of Hungary, since they have been living here for a long time, and are sufficiently integrated into Hungarian society. Until the date of receipt of the national residence permit or until the expiry of the deadline of 31 December 2021, the data subjects may keep and use their documents relating to the previously issued stay. They do not lose their validity, their rights are maintained. New British citizens will be able to apply for residence permits, as will other third-country nationals, after the expiry of the deadline, but they will also be subject to visa waiver provisions in accordance with the relevant EU regulation. That is, therefore, the essence of the proposal. To do so, it is necessary to open the three laws that we can amend in this brief bill. I think there is no question that this proposal is now timely. We must now negotiate and accept that it can be used next year, when the transitional period is over. Just as in the United Kingdom it is open to Hungarians living in the United Kingdom and already European Union citizens to apply for an established or pre-established status after the end of the transitional period, so we must ensure that British citizens living with us have the opportunity to convert their residence permits relatively simple and adapted to the emerging circumstances. I am sure that this step will also help maintain good relations between the two countries, and will provide some relief to British citizens living in our foreign country, who are already in difficulty because of the Brexit. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the objectives of the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-19-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-37	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. I would like to point out that I do not know that what I am going to say about the bill is in line with the pro-government approach or with the opposition. I must address this because, as I have always known, Mr Secretary of State, he is trying to hold the debate in the professional field, even if there is a difference between the opposition and the opposition in this area, he made a party political comment for which I also apologise to Mr President for having intervened so loudly, and I would not like to do so if he would continue to say so, so I would like to say that the opposition does not form a block. If we give the same opinion, then the accusation is that we are a block, just because we have the same opinion. Now, when he was different, Mr. Secretary of State says that it's strange why those who make a block don't share the same opinion. Honor us or me by accepting that, where appropriate, I have a different opinion, while I know that the person who wants to implement the one block at all costs with his electoral law is Viktor Orbán. I did not want to open up the debate in a political direction. In the previous case, I abstained from talking about a direction that doesn't belong here. I will then turn briefly to what I would like to say in this regard, perhaps in a slightly broader context. When the Brexit referendum took place in June 2016, everyone in the UK, including in Europe, in the European Parliament, of which I was a member, was aware that this was going to be a difficult process, but some of us thought that the contract would not be set a two-year deadline by accident, until 29 March 2019. I don't want to go through the story, which led to the birth of membership on January 31, 2020 and still have to decide or argue on issues that are very serious. These include, of course, the Irish-Northern border issue, which is linked to the other important issue, which is the question of future economic relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom, we do not yet see a real agreement and the right of people to settle and work. It's also a very delicate question. I believe that this current bill, applying the European Union rules and the exit contract in a proper manner, will create a suitable, positive way for British citizens to stay in Hungary, including what may be relevant to them in the case of a third-country spouse, and it is important that, where appropriate, it also deals with the possibility of visa waiver in relation to residence or establishment in Hungary. Obviously, this question is also very important to us because it has another side. The other side is Hungarian citizens living, working and established in the United Kingdom and their situation will continue. Again, I would not necessarily want to open a debate on how many of them are now, how many of them have been released. The most diverse numbers are played. How many people in the United Kingdom have been registered as Hungarians in 11 on the basis of the referendum is no, it is obviously not a correct low number, and then there are extremely high figures. But I believe that what I have read as a standard estimate is about 250 thousand, but it is definitely about a number in which it is very important that their interests can be protected by the government. In parentheses, it is often said in the debates that we can determine how many people have left Hungary. This is not the case, because there are also many Hungarian citizens who have lived, worked, worked, have a Hungarian address, renew their ID card, occasionally come home to vote, pay the student scholarship, so according to the Hungarian registration, he is still living in Hungary. I do not want to open this debate in this direction into a number war. Let us state that there are a significant number of Hungarians living in the UK, not necessarily out of an adventure, but because of a higher level of living, for whom it is very important that this legislation, which we are talking about, should be applied bilaterally. [[10.20]] And there is indeed the possibility for those who have been legally and continuously there for five years to apply for the status established, who do not have the status established in advance... Obviously, I assume and know that the Hungarian Government has played a role in the fact that this bilateral agreement can already be concluded between us by applying the European Union's legislation. In my opinion, it's not entirely symmetrical and mutual. I will give you an example: in Hungary, UK citizens and their family members will be entitled to obtain a national residence permit without examining the conditions for housing, livelihoods, health insurance and the interests of Hungary, it should only be examined that there is no grounds for refusal because of the danger to public policy and public security, while we must acknowledge that this is not the same in the United Kingdom. We have to take note of this because the reasons for Brexit for British citizens who voted for it were linked to the fact that free labour, which was a fundamental right in the European Union, should no longer prevail in this way. Let me add that this was not after the end of the moratorium on the countries that joined in 2004, so it was not for the big country. This applies, but after the moratorium has ceased after 2007, because that is when the British have had to face the fact that there are many who, not by taking up a job for a better living, will arrive there, if appropriate, with a quality job, but want to make full use of the social network. This is not the opinion of Hungarians who work out there, they are respected, but it should be understood that this level of discount, that we do not examine anything, was not acceptable on their part. This is why the Hungarian embassy in London calls on citizens to start collecting documents proving their continued stay, work, insurance, for themselves and for their families, which is a correct call. Reading these calls, I see that, through our embassy, the government is trying to create all the opportunities and information that Hungarian citizens can continue to settle and work there in accordance with British rules, while I would like to see relations in Hungary as soon as possible that many Hungarian people who have left will be brought back to Hungary. Moreover, the proposal, which, of course, largely transposes EU legislation, is supported by Jobbik. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Members have said, the purpose of the bill is to lay down provisions on the right of residence of UK nationals and their family members from third countries in Hungary after the transitional period following the exit. The second part of the exit agreement, which entered into force at midnight on 30 January 2020, grants citizens' rights to citizens of the United Kingdom who, as a general rule, exercised their right of residence in accordance with Union law before the end of the transitional period. It is important to mention that the establishment of detailed rules is carried out at national level in all EU Member States. The proposal proposes rules for beneficiaries of residence rights by the end of the transitional period until 31 December 2020 and does not affect the legal status of UK nationals and their family members who subsequently apply for residence. New arrivals will be subject to legislation on third-country nationals. In Hungary, three quarters of the five thousand British citizens are typically staying in Hungary for three years. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill relates to the amendment of three domestic laws: on the one hand, the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses, the law on entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence, and the law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals. Under the proposal, the UK citizens concerned will be entitled to a preferential residence permit without examining the conditions governing housing, livelihoods, health insurance and the interests of Hungary. Until a national residence permit is obtained, they may continue to use their rights in the possession of documents previously issued under the rules of free movement and residence. The draft provides for the possibility for persons previously enjoying the right of free movement and residence to continue their stay under preferential arrangements in Hungary. The period of application shall be one year from the date of entry into force of the draft law, i.e. from 1 January 2021 until 31 December 2021. Documents previously issued to data subjects shall be valid until 31 December 2021. By way of derogation from the general rule, the existence of conditions relating to the length of previous residence, housing, livelihoods and health insurance and the interests of Hungary will not be examined, but the non-compliance with grounds of exclusion such as public order and public security should be examined. The family members of established UK nationals with whom the relationship existed before the end of the transitional period following the exit may continue to exist and join the United Kingdom national, obtaining a national residence permit. Following the expiry of the transitional period linked to the exit, new arrivals of UK nationals, like nationals of other third countries, may apply for a residence permit by allowing them to submit their application in Hungary, contrary to the general rule of the foreign application. The proposal complements the legislative harmonisation clauses of the relevant laws as regards Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. This Regulation exempts nationals of the United Kingdom who are British nationals from the visa requirement for entry into the territory of the Member States. KDNP supports the bill. I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-19-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The MSZP supports it. Thank you.
u2020-11-19-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Bősz Anett, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, It is a very refreshing exception, and it is very good to see that Mr.Deputy Minister also mentioned in addition to the text of the bill that he intends to prevent the Hungarian government from harming the acquired rights of Hungarian citizens living in Britain. I am pleased to hear this because I think that we are one in this, and we can support this, because unfortunately we have seen in recent months that Hungarian citizens in Hungary have been let down in many respects by this government. It is a joyful step forward that at least our fellow countrymen in Britain do not wish to fail them. However, the bill before us is clearly about regulating the legal status and acquired rights of British citizens in our country. [[10.30]] First of all, I would also like to tell you that, unfortunately, the Brexit that happened in the third wave of populism proves in many respects that the entire European community is hurt by such a bad and irrational decision. As a result, we also have legislative obligations, so a refreshing exception is this amendment proposal before us, because 34 laws are being negotiated by the Parliament this week, and I must say that most of them are outrageous. It is very bad to see that the amendment of the law on the status of British citizens in our country, however, leads to such a civilized debate, while many of our fellow citizens do not want to hear about opposition opinions in their home country, as in the case of epidemic management, about how mass testing will be carried out, how we intend to act against the economic and social impacts of the coronal virus epidemic, about doing anything for those who have lost their jobs, about wanting to do something for those who are looking for their new jobs for a long time, and why they do not extend the job-seeking allowance, as has happened in almost all countries, where there has not been enough length of it. Returning to the bill before us, and to what this entails, and what the idea of defending the rights acquired by the Hungarians living outside has to do with it is the government's intention to defend their rights, the question arises whether they already have any proposals for this, whether there is a proposal for a decision, a regulation or a legislative amendment, which contains in particular that, for example, the Hungarian Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wish or can do for our fellow citizens in Britain, for example, in the case of an epidemic, in terms of health. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that many of our countrymen living abroad are working in hospitality and in the collapsed part of the service sector at the moment. So in that sense, it would be worth mapping, it would be worth doing for them. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister with respect to answer these points, even if they do not yet have an idea and would like to put this into debate, even if they do, because in that case we should be able to see it clearly. We know that, for example, the British receive information in the disease management text. They have also received information in recent weeks, as opposed to Hungarians who are trying to speed up the real data from domestic government information and put together some kind of reality picture of how they can now stand for masking, they have the opportunity to test when mass and free testing can take place in Hungary, but, for example, the Hungarians in Britain have met with the fact that they have already been informed by the authorities about the upcoming and planned acquisition of vaccine and to indicate how much they would need if they needed it. I think that we should also move into these directions, and it would be very important to inform our fellow countrymen properly, or even to help, if there is an adequate framework and intention on the part of the Hungarian government, namely that they have lost a large number of their livelihoods, even if this is only temporary, they have very difficult times ahead of them, and they too would very much like to be helped from many sides. I think that, by the way, by joining what my fellow Member Balczó said that I do not want to go to war on numbers, the Deputy Minister gave me a number. We know that our countrymen live in a very large crowd in Britain, and indeed not primarily for adventure. I would very much like for them to be able to say, say, and say, yes, this has been a good adventure, but in Hungary they will find a country to which it is worth returning. I think that it is more than worth talking about, but, of course, the legislative amendment proposal before us is a necessity that the Hungarian Parliament has to do, and before that we obviously have to bow down. Thank you for listening. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2020-11-19-44	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a two-minute speech, we will now continue to speak in a normal time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat, who made a written statement about his intention to speak. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-19-45	Mr President, Dear House, Let us try to seize a moment of grace, because I feel that this is the proposal where there will be no nuclear war between parliamentary parties. However, I must join what our lead speaker Zoltán Balczó said, it is perfectly natural that there is not a homogeneous block in Parliament, but different parties see the same question in different shades. From the point of view of demography and emigration, I have tried to examine the fact that it is entirely legitimate that we are trying to guarantee the same rights to 5,000 British living here as we expect our countrymen to be abroad. At the same time, a little behind the process, there are some things that you're happy about, some that you're not. I am pleased that the problem of emigration is now recognised by this government, and it seems to be admitted, because many years have passed since it has been the subject of a continuous discussion between us in Parliament. During the cycle between 10-14, the government was clearly still in the denial phase, claiming that there was no virtual emigration problem from Hungary. From 14 to 18 in the first half of the cycle, it was more typical that they looked at it with a certain degree of doubt, trying to identify the changes to the legislation that had taken place, that more people were flowing abroad. There is, by the way, partial truth, so let us be fair, of course, there have been market openings that affect these processes, but do not dominate them. What has dominated this amazing outflow is the pay gap that can be observed between our region and Western Europe, as well as the current government policy and do not fall ill for you, because I have addressed it to you for the last 30 years, for the most part, but not just for you, that the treatment of multi-business companies has been substantially cemented, the unwarranted mass of benefits granted to them, their failure to be subject to public burdens, the complete negligation of environmental expectations against them, very often ignoring them, and the often self-sacrificing policy that has emerged from the Hungarian economic philosophy has created quite simply the situation that the pay gap that exists between the East and the West has not seemed to calm down for decades. It was quite right to say that Brexit is a process that has been rolling since 2016 and we also see that these processes are moving relatively slowly, the mills are grinding slowly, but we are talking in the lower voice about the fate of a quarter million Hungarian compatriots, and this cannot be dissociated from the fate of the 5,000 who now wish to intervene by the Government of Hungary in the spirit of reciprocity. However, we also need to see that we have heard a number of statistics-distorting findings in recent weeks and months, after the government recognised, at last correctly, the problem of emigration, the fact that hundreds of thousands of people left their country under duress, and during the governments that have been regressing since 2010, more people have gone out of coercion than even after the,,56, which is, historically speaking, a catastrophic figure. In fact, the government also seems to recognize that since 2010, the total Hungarian population in the Carpathian Basin, so the number of Hungarians living here has fallen by a million people. I think that this is the real drama that we cannot go without saying, and here comes the question of what a welcome strategy this government has, what programs it has put in place there are very little of it, what it plans to do in order for someone who really did not feel the desire for adventure, but the urge. I'll give you a lifelike example, I've seen a lot of these: the increased, jumped payments on your currency loan here couldn't pay from your income here, so you went to a Dutch slaughterhouse and paid off the loan here with the higher income. Hundreds of us have encountered similar cases, and I think we've all met tens of thousands if we add up the number of complaints, demands, requests in our receiving hours and in our mailbox. We also see that although, fortunately, Hungarian wages have started to rise from a very humiliatingly low base, this level of rise is not even outstanding in the region, so even within our region and the V4 there is not even any mediocre Hungarian data, so it is one of the weakest here, and if we keep the European comparison, then unfortunately we can see that the average Hungarian wage level is not approaching, let alone the average European, not even the average European, in which there is the abnormally bad data from other countries. [[10.40]] What we see is that this government may be stepping out of the denial phase, and at least it has begun to adopt rhetorically demographic approaches. This has not yet come into practice, since, unfortunately, the demographic winter, the sinking Atlantis, is still in a state, and in terms of the number of living births, this government has not been able to achieve any movement in recent years. We see that fertility indicators [[To Miklós Simon:]] Don't wave your head, because numbers are stubborn things. They're under 90,000, over and around, and we just can't move from this. With respect to fertility rates, at least a replacement has been performed. What happened a decade earlier in the countries of the region has now occurred in the middle of the decade. That's a good thing. For the sake of my colleague, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, when we spoke of a Baltic state from a demographic point of view, you misunderstood, we were not looking at the movements of the last thirty years, we should decipher precisely the miracle that, if there is a large loss of quantity, which is undoubtedly there, as there is in Ukraine in the order of ten million, how can a Baltic State then produce a fertility rate that is far ahead of the Hungarian. I think it would be worth examining the situation in each country, the fertility rate of which is stronger than that of the current Hungary, to examine the patterns that we might have. I'm gonna say a miracle weapon, which I believe in, and I hope you'll be able to get along with it. This is a comprehensive home creation programme, which also has a rental program, and I stress that what I am imagining is not a social approach programme, but a massive market. What we see is that the number of newly built properties transferred does not even reach the volume in the mid-2000s. And I would like to point out that I am not talking about the rise out of foreign exchange craziness, but I am talking about data that can be dated to him. The need to save a decade and a half of the property that Hungarian young people can obtain independently. Many young Hungarians do not do this at home, but go abroad in the hope of a better livelihood. That is why I would like to stress that, on the one hand, with a public housing programme, we could solve the supply shortage on the market, which would require at least 5-10 thousand new builders per year. Hungarian young people and older people could not move into them at market prices, but at much more depressed prices. For Hungarian contractors, the possibility of participating in such a program with a public background would provide a continuous order portfolio. Finally, I believe that after 6-8 years, these apartments must be purchased at cost. In this way, we could tell Hungarian young people that they are needed at home. Six to eight years of peaceful co-existence, if the conditions of mutual co-existence are met, you can expect to obtain own property at a normal price. Here we also meet the government's rhetoric, who deals with this issue with so much that the Hungarian people want their own property. Of course, if they do a telephone poll and ask a thousand Hungarian people that you want my brother's own property, or you'd rather hire someone else's rent, of course 90 percent will say that I want my own property. It's very clear. However, the situation and the Hungarian reality show that the financial possibilities of this do not exist, especially because this government has taken a number of anti-family steps in recent years. One of the harshest of these is the undisputedly inefficient but nasty word! It was the elimination of state support for housing savings, with which many young Hungarians were embarrassed, such as those who used this type of loan to collect their share of CSOK earlier. These young people are now unable to save their share of the CSOK in a supported way, but much harder, much longer. They promised to put something in his place. Antal Rogán's home lotto concept was a miscarriage, we saw that it didn't come out very well, but it didn't replace another program. In this way, it would be possible, in my view, to establish a waiting programme, which would not lead to such a disproportion in such a debate that there are five thousand former British or English citizens living here, and hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots must find their way abroad. I don't think this disproportionateness is right for you either. The aim would be to ensure that all Hungarians who are born somewhere in the Carpathian Basin can survive in their homeland, as their abilities, according to the principle. I understand, therefore, that in the spirit of reciprocity, we now grant certain rights to the people who live here, and that is a good thing, but do not miss out on the government's work on the legislative proposals that seek to improve and reclaim the fate of Hungarians who are forced to break into foreign countries. The housing cataclysm, the home-creation chaos that has existed for thirty years, but has been peaked in the last ten years, to be clearly treated. I would like to address to Mr Secretary of State that what happened on the front of the rental prices also contributed greatly to the fact that many people thought that if housing was so brutal, that if, where appropriate, my income was consumed more than half a month, I would go to a country where the salary is double that, and the housing costs were about the same or even cheaper, as we do. A lot of people have chosen this route out of compulsion, and many of them do not appear in the statistics, as the Hungarian youth who terminates all their legal relationships here, goes into the office and announces that he would like to return his property card now. It is much more typical of the bilingual existence or even of commuting in the West, which does not necessarily appear in the statistics, but it is definitely a forced vulnerable situation for the young Hungarians concerned or, where appropriate, now middle-aged and older people. That is why I would like to wish you to take this issue more seriously. With regard to rent prices, the very unfortunate crisis in the case of a coronal virus epidemic and the lack of tourists have caused a frost on the market, so at least the prices will stop growing, this would be the grace period when intelligent regulation could be used to settle this market, for example, a smart regulation of Airbnb may now be easier to pass than when it is full of tourists, where appropriate, but this is just good advice on our part. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not enough to discuss the legislative proposals arising from international obligations here quickly, and fortunately, this will take place without debate, but also to add the part that is most important for the survival of the Hungarian nation, so that everyone can thrive in the homeland and that the desired Hungarian children can be born here in Hungary. After all, I do not fully share the professional statement that one in six Hungarian children are born beyond our current borders, but that one in eight or nine is quite certain. And this is also such a loss, which, in my view, in the historical perspective, is not permissible for a nation state such as Hungary, which is why I am asking the Government to intervene immediately on these issues. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-19-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Deputy Minister if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2020-11-19-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to say to Mr Balczó that if he has struck a personal tone, with great respect for the fact that there are many of us on the right, who respect the Member, and perhaps the Member is the only one of Jobbik, who has always been a general one, and I can say that he has always had unbroken respect in our circles. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] That is why we believe that the most shocking sign of Jobbik's moral crisis and self-destruction, Congressman, is that you are now less remorseful of cooperation with those who have destroyed the country several times. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Professional State Secretary's reply! He couldn't stand in the middle of a debate.]] like his hatred of the government. Congressman, this is a personal remark, so please take it this way. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: Brave warrior, he didn't say it during debate.]] Dear House, As far as other comments are concerned, I thank the Member for his proposals on demographic and fertility, and I will forward them to the appropriate place, but allow me to deal with the subject of the legislative proposal. I see that there is no professional debate, and it would not be much of an issue, because we are fulfilling an international obligation with this law. I would like to stress, however, that it is natural, although it is not strictly within the scope of the law, but it should be mentioned that the fate of our Hungarian compatriots living in Britain is on our hearts, but, as regards their numbers and status, I would like to refer the following statistics to the attention of Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here there is a fairly large standard deviation in numbers, partly in our estimation, partly in the official English figures, but let me quote the numbers of the British statistical office, according to which the number of people who were born in Hungary and who are in England is currently 83-113 thousand in Britain. [[10.50]] So this is the official British position; it is significantly lower than a quarter of a million. Allow me to make a brief comparison with the congressman. Until 30 September 2020, 112 330 Hungarian citizens submitted applications in the British registration system. We will see the October-November data later, but we can talk about this magnitude. The same figure for the other V4 countries: 773 840, i.e. seven times the figure in Hungary, while Poland is about four times the size of its population. Slovakia is 84 190 people, so it is one order below our number, but it is half of the population, so it is also a difference of magnitude per person. I would like to quote Romania if nearly 700 thousand Romanian citizens have requested registration in Britain in view of the Brexit in recent months. We have a population of about half the size of Romania, so the difference in proportion is real and speaks for itself. The British registration system works well, by the way. Our consulate in London has not received a civil complaint so far. At the same time, we are seeing it, and I would also like to point out to Mrs Bősz Anett that many of the registered citizens are probably already home. The general experience of our embassy in London is that more and more Hungarians are moving home to Hungary or to other EU countries. The reason for this may be that the British Alien Police rules for the period after 1 January 2021 are waiting slowly, but such a process has slowly started. It should be noted that the British Home Office is expected to launch a communication campaign in all EU Member States from 1 January 2011 to EU citizens planning to work and study in the United Kingdom, as we, through Szabolcs Takács, Minister for Brexit, have conducted a number of information campaigns here in Hungary towards the British who live here and who are affected by this regulation, whose status would, in our opinion, be settled in a satisfactory manner by this bill; and I am pleased that there is a consensus between the government and its opposition. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-19-48	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. [[Zoltán Balczó: Mr President,]] Dear fellow Member! The item is closed for a two-minute response... [[Zoltán Balczó: Personal involvement.]] Congressman, the agenda is closed. My dear former vice president knows precisely that in this case, I have no opportunity to speak to you. I'm asking for your understanding. [[Zoltán Balczó: Mr President, sorry. I hit the wrong button. I would like to speak with you personally.]] Congressman, it was a two-minute call. [[Zoltán Balczó: Sorry, I pressed the wrong button! I'd like to correct it.]] Of course, Mr Vice-President, former Vice-President, fellow Vice-President, in this case you have the opportunity. As to personal involvement, please.
u2020-11-19-49	I'm sorry, Mr. President, because I wanted to press the personal involvement button, which is obvious in this case. I was hoping that Mr. Secretary of State would only give me a professional answer. Whether what you told me about me, I'd consider it a compliment, but it wasn't. In short, you said that anyone who gets caught in the dandruff would eat the pigs. I must therefore say that I agree with the Jobbik Hungary Movement programme, and I agree with what it represents in Parliament; I agree with the speech, the style that Dániel Z. Carpathian represented earlier. And that, in some ways, there are opposition styles that I disagree with, that's true, but that doesn't mean that I couldn't find my place in this party. And I am not going to say to Mr. Secretary of State, as you just said, that I have always known him from his professional, stick-to-the-issue response, and that is how it is now, except for that previous party speech. I'm not going to tell you how you, who I respect so much, can be in a government with the undersecretaries who are running around throwing slander on me and us. I'm not saying this because I judge you on your own. Thank you very much, Mr President, once again, and I apologize for not applying with the right button.
u2020-11-19-50	Nothing happened, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-11-19-51	I feel that personal involvement is justified in this case. Thank you.
u2020-11-19-52	Mr Vice President, nothing has happened, and I think these are personal debates that I think will be discussed in person. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your cooperation. The meeting will be handed over to Vice President Latorcai. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-19-53	Thank you. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The general debate on the presentation of the Central European Foundation for Education and the implementation of the Central European Foundation for Education until its closure. The government referral is T/13660. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Your time frame is 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-54	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Although this may be the only presentation of substance and substance in today's presentation, the rest is considered more technical and partly due to international obligations, I will not use the 30 minutes because the work is not yet in a phase where I can give details, and I would like to outline a concept that could start with this bill towards implementation. The purpose of this draft law is practically to give the Government the authority of a public-interest trust fund whose name would be the establishment of a Central European Educational Foundation for the purpose of carrying out educational and educational tasks in the public interest. What would this shape cover? What would this institutional framework mean? This foundation will be responsible for the establishment and maintenance of the highest quality secondary education institution and college in Central Europe and our wider region, teaching in English and in the languages of the countries of the region, providing an international degree certificate. Measures have been taken in recent years, especially in recent months, in order to substantially increase the competitiveness of Hungarian higher education. By transforming the maintenance system, I think we have taken an important step in this direction. This process is taking place. I would also like to bring the aspect here and to highlight the fact that in Hungary we can now talk about thousands of magnitudes of tens of thousands of students from abroad who are staying in Hungary with a full Hungarian state scholarship. So our higher education, in addition to being institutionally renewed and thus moving towards marketisation, can at least strengthen its competitiveness in terms of operating principles, and we have also opened up this higher education system, and we can now safely put Hungary on the international education map, as regards our higher education system. In terms of proportion, Hungary is by far the largest and most generic public scholarships for students outside Europe. Even in absolute numbers we are behind the largest, behind Germany and France Hungary. I think we can be proud of this and the country will be able to profit from this in an immeasurable way in the long term. Thus, a kind of internationalization of Hungarian higher education has taken place and is in progress. [[11.00]] And we would like to extend this process to the level of secondary education, as Hungary has traditionally played a central role in this area as well. In Hungary, Budapest was also the city where elite families from neighbouring countries preferred to study their children; a number of non-Hungarians, but once in the region with Hungarian ties or ties to the Hungarian state, came out of these educational institutions, who then gave world class in the fields of science, culture or sport. We would like to revive this tradition, we would like to see Budapest not only as a higher education centre, not only as the region's most excellent medical centre, but not only as a high-tech, scientific success and high-quality higher education centre, but also as a medium-level education centre, which can be attractive for non-Hungarian-speaking people who want to acquire world-class knowledge in the region, so we do not need to send children to Italy, Switzerland or the United Kingdom. So, in parallel with the renewal of Hungarian higher education, the time has come for us to take action in this direction. By doing so, we are determined to further strengthen the Hungarian system of public education and its position in the region. This, of course, fits into our broader foreign policy effort to build a kind of Central European cooperation. It is obvious that the most tangible framework of this and the framework that has been able to produce the most results so far are the most obvious form of cooperation in Visegrád, in which four countries participate. But here, when we talk about Central Europe as such, real borders go far beyond V4 and Central Europe in a cultural sense, geographically speaking, a much larger area belongs, so this institution would provide training not only in the language of the V4 but also in the language of the other countries in the region, for example in several Balkan languages. All these long-term constructions are based on strengthening human relations. What could be a greater step in strengthening human relations than making young people know each other. This is why we operate generous scholarships in higher education. In the field of medium-level education, however, since it does not work, we would like to bring as many non-Hungarian-language young people to Budapest as possible, so that they can once again learn world-class and international accreditation training here in a Hungarian context and in a Hungarian environment, with which they can survive anywhere in the world and gain access to the best universities. The resulting educational-educational institution is planned to provide high-quality education for students from the countries of Hungary and the region in 4 plus 1 preparatory year. We take the most famous English and Swiss samples based on this. Due to the nature of the boarding school in the institution, the so-called boarding school, in addition to high-quality training, a special emphasis would be placed on the occupation outside the classroom. This can also be an attraction for this institution, which breaks the barriers that currently exist between some countries in the region and Hungary in such a way that even families send their children to study in Hungary. So we must offer such highly competitive knowledge, environment and complementary activities that can break through these barriers. In this spirit, programmes outside the classroom would therefore also aim at transferring knowledge of regional values, culture and regional traditions. The degree awarded on the basis of educational programmes accredited by the International Association of Graduates is, of course, widely recognised by more than 2,000 universities in 150 countries, including the most prestigious, such as Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard, Humboldt or Sorbonne. We would like to give such a diploma to these students here in Budapest, which the higher education institutions of Hungary would accept as equivalent to the Hungarian degree. And we hope that many people will also choose higher education in Hungary and not leave the country. At the same time, those who leave can gain knowledge that, if they return to the region, they can substantially increase the competitiveness of Central Europe. Following the adoption of the draft law, Hungary and the Hungarian education system, which would open up a very broad perspective for students and young people in Hungary and in the region, would also strengthen the reputation, role and prestige of Hungary as a regional educational centre, once again in the spirit of building in Central Europe, building in V4 and beyond, which is a key national strategy and foreign policy goal for the government. We are looking for tools to provide such a wide range of cooperation with a long-term basis and make it unquestionable. Mr President, thank you very much, that is what I wanted to say first. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-55	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President Brenner Koloman has indicated his wish to speak during today's debate. If Mr Vice-President's representatives speak, he may lead the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, and he consents to allow Vice-President Brenner Koloman to lead the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Pósán. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, If we take in a history book or a literature book from any of the national or neighbouring countries, then the first thing we see is that there is Western Europe dominance everywhere, and we barely know anything about our own narrower region, so we barely know Polish history or Czech history or the history of Ukrainians, and vice versa. From this point of view, I believe that the current initiative could indeed break through a wall, since it is T/13660/. The main aim of the proposal is to ensure that young people in the Central European area and in particular the Carpathian Basin learn as much about each other's history, culture, traditions, traditions, common elements of the Central European Foundation and, in particular, the identity of the Carpathian Basin, regional values, mutual understanding and respect. To this end, it will be the responsibility of the Foundation to establish, maintain, operate a secondary education institution and associated college that is able to function as a boarding school, as has been said; a school which has the accreditation of the so-called mid-terms programme and the Diploma programme by the International Graduation Organisation, as well as the granting of an international diploma certificate, because the international graduation test must be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down by the International Graduation Organisation. For the sake of fact only, we note that today we have four secondary public education institutions in Hungary where they can issue international degrees. But these institutions are clearly and exclusively institutions integrated into the Hungarian public education system and operated for virtually Hungarian students, and not for the purpose of the present proposal. As the Secretary of State pointed out, there are a lot of schools around the world in the international education system under the International Graduation Organisation, and it involves a very large number of students. The scope of this would be extended by the future Hungarian. [[11.10]] Let us also note that the residential institutional structure that would be targeted by this foundation, if we actually look at the logic of its operation, its structure, the spirituality of its entire operation, is essentially following the pattern of the Anglo-Saxon Colleges. It follows patterns that have shown for a long, long time that there is much to look for in such an area, fulfilling their hopes. And if we look at how it works, say, an English classic college in Oxford or Cambridge, one thing we can certainly see, besides a high level of knowledge, it creates a serious social and inclusion identity, let's just think about things like movies, rowing sports, when they work in a team, or any other sports activity that they also pursue at community level, they are all designed to strengthen community identity in the good and noble sense of the word. So I think it's a good initiative. The bill therefore provides for the initial financial resources to be provided to the Foundation, the governing body of the future educational institution, the minister responsible for education's tasks in relation to the institution, but, as the title of the bill shows, this does not yet deal with the regulation of the future institution. So it is only important to emphasise that no one should look in it for the various regulations of the future school, how and according to what rules it will function, or according to which curricula it will operate, or what institutional control standards it will have to comply with, or what human strength issues it will have to meet. So these may not be questions concerning the current bill. These questions will undoubtedly follow from the current bill, and will logically follow when the course of things comes to the stage that the issue of setting up a school really needs to be addressed, but this bill is not yet. This could be the first, yet crucial, push. We fully agree with this proposal, we support it, and I trust that it will find agreement and support in the wider spectrum of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-19-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Vice-President Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As was said in the State Secretary's Expo, the T/13660, before us. Bill No. 1 outlines a concept. I can very much agree with this concept, with the objectives set out in it, and even go further, Mr State Secretary, and before me, my fellow Member Pósán spoke about the Central European region as a priority region to be supported. As a former university leader and as a master of Central Europe, I would like to confirm that this is a major goal for both the Hungarian delegation and the Carpathian Basin region. In addition, I agree that we know very little about each other in the Central European region and that this deficiency should also be addressed in our education system. The first and most important question, of course, is what this form of foundation will cover. So on the content issues, I think I have said that I consider the idea to be fully supported, even because the Secretary of State's exposé also had comparative sentences on internationalisation of higher education and support for this initiative, which I can support 100%; as I have said, I myself, as a university leader in the whole internationalisation project, fought in the first place for the same goals and I can fully support them. As I said, the reason why we are having a bit of a difficult time here, I think, along with my fellow opposition Members, is because we see what has happened in higher education with universities that have been turned into foundations. And allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to begin with the same traditional act of criticism of my speech, as I said to Mr Bódis, Secretary of State, Professor, that I am afraid of the Greeks, if they bring gifts, because we see what happened in the university world with the universities, we are still discussing similar proposals that the Fidesz government has turned into a foundation. Let me put it this way: I don't have a professional problem with the foundation. The form of foundation can function well if the board does not detract from the rights of elected university citizens, the rights of the Senate, the rights of students, the rights of teachers, the development of details of its own organizational and operational order, in short, the basic method of university autonomy and the method of university autonomy adopted in the European cultural circle since the Middle Ages. But unfortunately, what we've seen in recent months and weeks is that the Fidesz appointment exercise has confirmed all our fears. In the most critical way, it is the example of the University of Acting Arts that is still not laid to rest, although as Vice-President of the National Assembly several months ago, I put a compromise solution on the table that would require two parallel faculties at the University of Acting Arts, so that students who wish to complete their studies with these instructors in this curriculum can continue to do so, and that the newly appointed curatorium should form another faculty according to their ideas. I proposed a three-year transition period, where those synergies that I hope will develop here could then bring this very angry situation to some sort of resting point, where very well-deserved and highly talented artists on an ideological line are in a completely unworthy position, I would reiterate. So I think that the same condition applies to this proposal. In this form and in this state of development, I can agree with those goals and details and obviously by strengthening the various regional languages here. Moreover, I think there will be a German among these languages, as Mitteleuropa's idea is largely the concept of German culture. So I think that we could fully support these noble goals if we didn't have a completely negative example of what Fidesz's one-party overpowering university and education policy work would do in front of us. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-19-59	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-19-60	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr Deputy Minister, he presented the bill in detail, and my fellow Member Pósán. I would like to say that this is an extremely important thing because there is the possibility of creating a regional knowledge centre, a knowledge base, in the context of the bill, and this is an extremely good idea. I personally would very much like to congratulate you on that. And the creation of a Central European educational foundation would also give us the opportunity to truly strengthen a Central European identity, the broadest possible understanding of cultures. And let me highlight an opportunity given by this training, the granting of an international diploma, with a personal experience: whoever acquires this certificate will be exempted from the most difficult language exams of TOEFL, IELTS and the world, and can go to the best universities in the world. It is also included in the proposal that 150 countries and nearly 2,000 universities would recognise and already recognize the world, Sorbonne, Harvard and other universities. And for example, this part of the presentation is important because I myself went through my studies at the University of England to see how difficult it is to pass such a language exam. This will create a knowledge base with which we will give a huge opportunity to students who will study here, and the fact that Hungary can give this is a huge thing, an opportunity. Congratulations on the bill, and KDNP supports it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[11.20]]
u2020-11-19-61	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-62	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I could only begin by saying that the goals, they are noble, so in any case the target system that this proposal outlines is commendable, has been discussed in detail by Vice-President Brenner Koloman, so because of the time to save a little time, I would overlook the detailed presentation of this. I would simply like to note that the target system that has been outlined in this proposal, as a truly supportive foreign policy politician, I am always happy that if there is an international initiative, whether it is regional or anything else, Hungary can be its centre, it can always be an advantage, and I agree with Hajnalka Juhász. Then I have to attach a word to what I have to say here, because there are some things that we do not understand precisely on the basis of this proposal, for example, that it is formulated to strengthen the system of public education, while removing this institution from the Public Education Act; this is one of the things that it will be difficult to strengthen the Hungarian system of public education. The other is that we do not understand exactly why this should be established as a foundation, because there are many institutions in Hungary that, by the way, based on its previous reputation and experience, would be absolutely capable of carrying out such training, and would probably be able to do it even cheaper. Our third question, I would say in a slogan, is talent management, yes, not elite training, so where is the guarantee in this, the assurance is that not only or rather I say that students who can pay tuition fees are not the only ones who can enter here, as the primary is how do I put it? it should be the promotion of talent, the promotion of social mobility to this effect, and not the introduction of privileged few to even stronger privileges. And I know that there is a scholarship system in the proposal itself, and it is also social, but it seems that if this is just a bush on someone's hat or on this institution's hat, it is not the essential element, so in Hungarian, it is not necessarily about talent management, at least from this point of view. On the other hand, there have been initiatives in history, already in Hungarian modern history, when we wanted to create such different regional Central European centres as this is more of a concern or such a past experience, they were created in a foundational form, and they died in five or six years, ten years, so as they came as comets, they disappeared into nowhere. I trust that if anything like this is created, it will not be his destiny within a ten-year period, but everything that is not created systematically in such a form of foundation, or is not created in the system, is threatened by the fact that it can easily come out of the circle in which it is now being introduced. And indeed, as the Vice President said, this form of foundation is a bit... In the minds of such opposition representatives, university transformation echoes, and how much maladministration has taken place, and every time we talk about foundations, and Fidesz is mentioned in this regard, one only remembers that it is not again that there will be fidesz politicians in the board, and thus they will be selected among the students to be recruited according to their own acquaintances, friends and political interests. Rather, I am certain of opposition malice in the wording of the Secretary of State, but our experience shows that there is room for this type of comment on such a proposal, because we have had too many negative experiences in the last weeks or months in relation to education, higher education and public education. Therefore, the MSZP faction will not support this proposal in this form. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mrs Bősz Anett. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-19-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, I would like to continue where my opposition colleagues have stopped saying that the goal is undoubtedly noble, sounds good, that the preservation of regional values, and that when Hungary can host a regional educational centre that will later enable students to study at the best universities in the world, and hopefully use their knowledge in our country, that would be okay, that would be okay. However, I would also like to continue with the criticisms that opposition colleagues have already started to draft. At the moment, this foundation-reserved institution is planned to be launched by the government with two billion forints of public money and, above all, I think that in the middle of the second wave of the epidemic, we need to talk about whether this is the moment when this huge amount of public money, rather than free and mass testing, rather than re-launching public wage allowances or re-grouping it in order to extend the duration of the unemployment benefit, and so that we could reduce not only the health but also the economic and social consequences, so that we could do it together for all our fellow citizens, including, where appropriate, opposition proposals, I do not know that we have chosen a good time to create this foundation, and in particular I do not know that we have chosen a good form, because they are using the latest means of bail-out of public funds, the foundation of public interest. I think it is no coincidence that there is a lack of trust in the opposition towards the government, because we have no good experience and we have no good experience in that, while we have been trying to convince you, in recent years, that public money is in the right place at a foundation school, because they provide additional services, where appropriate, they collect tuition fees or, where appropriate, use other resources, but they provide additional services and, where appropriate, elite training, or a rise opportunity for children from the most vulnerable social groups. What am I thinking here, honourable Members and honourable Deputy Minister? I think, first of all, that, say, Gábor Iványi's school in Tiszaszentmárton or Beregdaróc almost went bankrupt, when they received 47.5 million forints of funding from them, or I could mention the Borsodii school of the Real Pearl Foundation, I could mention the Ámbédkar School, it is indeed a few ten million forints, a few ten million forints of public money, and now we decide on two billion forints to be charged in dollars or euros in this foundation, and we also know that if there is a good chance of a change of government, this foundation will be managed by the members of the board close to Fidesz. We know what happened to the universities that became foundations. Basically, we have a problem not with the form of foundation reservation, but with realization and the fact that in many cases these foundations have taken decisions, based on university citizenship, in opposition to the will of university citizenship. And here I am joining my fellow Member Brenner Koloman, that the experiences we have gained over the past few years regarding the transition to the foundation form simply do not allow us to advance the confidence that a free and educational institution will be created here, which, by the way, will start with the right goals. But, again, we're paying a lot of public money for epidemic management right now, every penny would be a good place to hold back the economic and social crisis in the budget bug, and I think that in this sense, these two billion forints are too much in this situation. [[11.30]] I also consider this to be too much in the light of the fact that, once this institution is removed from the public education system, it creates some kind of privileged situation for the institution, while the privilege doubles, after the institution can count on normative support, state aid. I would like to draw your attention with great respect to the fact that, if parents can pay the tuition fee that is undoubtedly paid for additional services, I do not know that if they remove this law from the scope of this law and remove this high school or its college from the ranks of public education institutions, then they will obviously be able to rescind it from among the institutions within which they are subject to this regulation, so they can expect taxpayers' money from this point forward to an elite education from school or possibly from fabulous tuition fees. He mentioned the Deputy Minister and here I would like to move on to the professional issues that go beyond the powers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, for example in connection with the debate on closing accounts recently, I also told Mr Benő Banai that, where the opposition criticizes, let us say, the closing report, that is a multitude of clashes between the various ministries and the systems resulting from it, which are ultimately unfair, and not necessarily the legality of closing accounts, for example. However, I have to mention that in the days we are seeing a legislative proposal stating that foreign language kindergartens, which are not national kindergartens, can no longer include that they themselves provide some kind of foreign language training or foreign language services for children. It's unprofessional in every way. I know that the Deputy Minister has also studied international studies, and I know that a multilingual person, I know that he knows the international context, his own profession, and that he knows the international educational institutions, so in this sense you come from a privileged situation just like some of our fellow Members, and this is a good thing. But the fact that you are beginning to hold back the youngest in kindergarten who could go in the same direction of training to acquire the same language skills, to go to the elite universities of the world, as Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász said, yes, if we do not acquire our different degrees in such institutions, or if such institutions do not help us to learn the language or to acquire our knowledge of the world, it is a difficult task to jump the gap between the Hungarian education system and the elite universities of the world, if that is the case. So I would like to ask the Deputy Minister with respect how it is that they are so differentiated. One foundation and private school seeks to withdraw funds and give them to the other; one foundation and private school is to be involved within the framework of the public education system and the other is to be thrown out; one foundation and private school is to be given fabulous amounts of public money in the middle of the crisis and the other is to be denied a minimum of HUF 10 million. One of the institutions, which has language skills and other world-class uses and which is subject to Article 21 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. At the same time, the government is trying to make it impossible to operate as the smallest or the slightly larger educational institution, but it also uses the same aims to create a foundation or a public educational centre through which it would otherwise like to achieve the same goals as the educational institutions that you are preparing to make impossible. I see contradictions, Mr Vice Minister, in this proposal, and in the whole package that we are seeing and what I have just talked about. I thank you with all due respect if you can answer these questions. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-19-65	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-66	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to start with a general criticism. You have heard that my fellow opposition Members have expressed quite a lot of uncertainty and question in their comments. About everyone started by agreeing to the stated goals, the goals expressed here, but at the same time they do not see things through. I think a little bit of this is a criticism of the preparation that we may not have been able to answer all these questions from the proposed proposal. In this way, I think that we should pay more attention to the proposals, so that these issues may be saved, or that opposition factions can start work and their own decision-making processes with a better heart in preparation. I can underline it myself, and I would even linger a little longer on the importance and importance of the stated goals. In general, the Secretary of State, Mr Deputy Minister and Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, as well as the lead speaker of Fidesz, spoke about how we are lagging behind each other's history, in the light of our own history, and despite the political and other cross-cutting challenges that we are facing, how we cannot create this unity in this way, how we cannot count on each other, or at least not yet take advantage of the opportunities in this. We can see that there are very serious political divisions, political problems that are affecting the countries living here, they make cooperation difficult, and there are also reasons for this, as a result of the specific interpretation of history. There are also very, very serious environmental challenges that are growing, which again points in the direction of strengthening cooperation, whether we are looking at the Carpathian Basin or a larger picture, a Central European area for the states living here, because we can say that we are in a community of fate and that good cooperation is the basis for dealing with these extremely important problems and extremely difficult problems. This could be a very, very important process, if we try to catalyse this a little bit, to get to know each other better, to understand each other, and to prepare a process to allow political cooperation to take a completely different course. How difficult the situation is, there is also a shocking example yesterday, since we are talking about the Carpathian Basin: we have all seen that the Trianon Act has been proclaimed in Romania, which is quite shameful, it is an humiliation for virtually all Hungarians. They also show how serious political problems still exist in this region. So we agree with the goals. Run through one thing, this identity in the Carpathian Basin, I find it difficult to place, so that is that Hungarian identity, national identity, but in the Carpathian Basin... I can relate to the idea of trying to pursue such a policy, but it was a little weird for me, so I read it in the first place. I do not wish to repeat the issues which have already been formulated by my fellow opposition Members. There is some inaccuracies in the preparation: Minister of Education, Minister of Education, it is clear who the Minister of Public Education is from the point of view of his successor. I think it's a bit inaccurate. We can also see that there has been a significant asset allocation, it is happening, but we can also read that the government is providing budget support, providing additional wealth, and yet starting a course requiring tuition. Obviously, this also has a market-building, market-targeting effect, but this makes it fundamentally difficult for Hungarian students to apply more often, because obviously, if this starts as an elite teacher, it basically excludes Hungarian students. So I very much hope that there will be as many opportunities and assessments as possible, to which the proposal refers, but we do not know the extent to which as many Hungarian children as possible can study in this institution. With regard to the form itself, I can also express the concerns that most of my fellow opposition Members have, but I do not wish to repeat them unnecessarily. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-19-67	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Group Leader. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the sake of clarification: on the one hand, I said at the end of the speech that the detailed rules concerning the daily functioning of the school are obviously not included in the proposal, but at the same time some of the points that have been raised in this regard are, I think, read out of the text. [[11.40]] Lóránt László Keresztes asked that Hungarian students will be able to learn in this institution, while Congresswoman Anett Bősz talked about a privileged institution and talked about tuition fees and normative support. Well, to be clear about the formula, the tuition must, of course, be paid to foreign students, normative support can be claimed for students of Hungarian nationality. In the present construction, which is today in Hungary, there are public education institutions, even those that issue international qualifications based on normative support, as secondary schools and there are international schools in Hungary that operate in accordance with different foreign curricula and logic. Hungarian families can send children there, but of course they have to pay. So these are two separate constructions. This proposal tries to bring the two together in a good sense, to unite them so that they can and can be. So I don't see any contradictions in this, I think it can be handled in its place. Otherwise, it would be worth waiting for the detailed rules before making such a judgment. In relation to kindergarten training: it could be a professional debate that requires immediate foreign language training for preschool children. My personal belief is that they are not even aware of the matters of Hungarian grammar, and it is difficult enough to understand a foreign language so that they can understand grammatical logic, children, and their spelling will be dirty. Language teachers say that it makes sense to start foreign language education more systematically from the age of six, and before that, no more than songs can be similar. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Anett will be here for a two-minute speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to give my colleague László Pósán a very quick reaction. I myself went to a German ethnic kindergarten, and I can show you my spelling or my use of the Hungarian language. I don't think there's any downside to this. By the way, I would also like to say what you said at the end of your speech, it is true that they do not begin to explain grammar rules, let us say, the German-speaking kindergarten ladies, but they probably do not begin to explain their English-speaking kindergarten either. Kindergarteners do not learn verbs, but, as you said, children's songs and, where appropriate, the names of the different meals, the names of the pieces of clothing, and a lot of things that a kindergarten child encounters. I am very pleased that this has come up in the context of this debate. I am now looking at my fellow Member, Brenner Koloman, who, I understand, grew up as a bilingual child. I myself did not grow up as a bilingual child, but almost. For the kindergarten can help significantly in the field of language learning, as my fellow Member Hajnalka Juhász has already mentioned, that he has had a lot of work to do to jump the language exam at a very high-quality university abroad. Well, these are the ones that, in pre-school language education, if you can call it education, you simply get used to having different languages, and your nervous system and brain begin to develop that there is more than one name for things, because it comes from the nature of things that you name something in different languages. I am very pleased, my fellow Member, that we can talk about this. I'd also like to have a debate on this. Thank you.
u2020-11-19-71	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A two-minute speech will be held by Mrs Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd respond to three things. On the one hand, the question of time raised by my fellow Member Anett Bősz. This International Graduation Organization was established in 1968 in Geneva, to which this foundation will join. I think it is very important for this to happen now. And in terms of the costs associated with the foundation, knowledge is the biggest investment, the most important, and the perspective that none of us have mentioned is that the students who graduated here become mini-iplomats. We know that those in the diplomatic world, in international organisations, are connected to the country, to the culture and to the regional cooperation that the foundation intends to target. The third is that I did not say that the language education standards of higher education in Hungary did not meet, but that, for example, an English-Saxon university had to take a higher language exam without dictionary in order for someone to get in. It wasn't difficult for me, it was an extremely difficult task, basically. And this foundation gives an exemption from these language exams to those who can complete this school, and thus those who acquire knowledge in our country will actually become our ambassadors in the world. What a great thing it would be for the graduates here to represent the values, the identity linked to Hungary that this foundation could achieve, if any, on Harvard or Sorbonne. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-73	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to speak again to Mrs Bősz Anett. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you to my fellow Member, Mr Hajnalka Juhász, for the improvement in this sense. You may have heard the speeches in the floors of the opposition, and I think that we are not discussing the goals. That's a good point. And in terms of the date, I did name the disease management, and I said that this is a substantial amount of public money that we spent on the foundation and the asset allocation, which would take place in a number of other areas. I have given examples of this, such as mass testing, the extension of the job search allowance, or the immediate urgent assistance of pensioners. I know that the HUF 2 billion in this respect does not seem to be much, but when we look at the amount of money that is being deducted from certain settlements, which, by the way, struggle with the epidemic through the mayors, just as the government is trying to deal with it. I have criticized and I would like to make an adjustment in this sense, too, if you have done so in connection with my speech, that when I choose a time to pay a substantial amount of public money for something, that is not certain, and at the moment I am not sure that in the middle of a second wave of a pandemic, where every penny is good for reducing the social and economic crisis, or for reducing the health crisis and saving the health of our fellow citizens, this HUF 2 billion is not in the right place. That's what I said about the appointment. Thank you.
u2020-11-19-75	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa is now coming to a proper speech. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-76	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I deeply agree with the objectives set out here by the Deputy Minister, and I am very pleased that even in the middle of a pandemic, there is strategic thinking in the government, of course, in addition to the daily process, the handling of cases of force majeure, the management of the epidemic and the continuous decision-making, which is forward-looking, and that the proposals that wish to preserve Hungarians as a strong community and a strong identity are also on the table. This strategic approach, a vision for the future, has been the same in recent years, and I hope that it will remain so in the future. Mr. Crusade Leader raised the identity of the Carpathian Basin as a question. I believe that the existence and preservation of identity is the 21st century. It will be the biggest challenge of the century. If we had to name a big challenge in the century ahead, I would say it would be to preserve and preserve identity. The Carpathian Basin is our common living space, where we can see as a huge achievement that Hungary is still the largest nation after the hardships of the last hundred years. But not only Hungarians live in this living space, in this common space, which is here. In other languages it is known as the Pannonian Basin; we use the Carpathian Basin, many foreign languages know it as the Pannonian Basin. But we have such a living space, and it is worth thinking about in this space of life, and it is also worth developing in such a regional perspective, because as a development in history, let us not consider why many countries are currently in the Carpathian Basin, and many nationalities are living with us. The history of the Carpathian Basin It goes back to bloody grapes, which reminiscent of human memory. I think it makes sense to talk about the identity of the Carpathian Basin, where we can live with the surrounding peoples. And Central European thinking can be a little bit narrower by the fact that we here see our common space, this Carpathian Basin, as a part of our identity, as a region with wonderful natural features, landscape beauty, natural resources, rich traditions and culture, this part of our life space. So I think it is right that this is also included in the material, because although we obviously want to strengthen Hungarian identity and the European Christian culture that we want to have a compass for many centuries for the nations and nations living here, there is such an identity that it is in the Carpathian Basin, and I also think that it is important to live it. And I also think it is important that it is part of the material. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.50]]
u2020-11-19-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-78	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief, just a short reaction. In fact, I think it is absolutely positive that Mr Nacsa spoke, and I also agree that it would be very good if we could start in a direction where there is a common identity in the Carpathian Basin, but unfortunately that is not what I see. I do not see this as realistic at the moment, given the current, palpable political division due to historical hardships. That is why I referred to yesterday's shameful law that was proclaimed. I feel that this kind of strategic thinking is indeed right, if we try to establish a direction that can lead us to the existence of such a common identity, and that when the countries in the Carpathian Basin think of each other, we should have a stronger sense of belonging and community of fate than even historical hardships and a kind of rivalry. So right now, I think there are very, very serious, very serious political problems, and, unfortunately, we have to say, especially this year, in a symbolic year, we also have a lot to talk about, that we need to fight specifically so that the rights of Hungarians living in torn areas are not undermined, for example, by such outrageous decisions as yesterday. I can also say that perhaps, in a little reference to yesterday's debate, we always expect and demand the European Union to raise its voice on such matters. Therefore, today we have issued a communication that, due to the publication of the outrageous Trianon Act, we expect both the European Commission and the European Parliament to speak out and protest against this kind of abuse not only Hungarians living in disengaged areas, but also all Hungarians with such a decision. What we regret, however, is that the European Union is not sufficiently sensitive to such questions, questions concerning indigenous minorities. So that is why I say that it is basically the Hungarian identity that is defining for us, obviously the Christian identity for me, and for you too, who considers this to be the guiding principle for you, I very much hope that we can get to such an approach as soon as possible. This is also important because we have a huge challenge, climate change, climate change and the effects of increasingly harsh environmental destruction, and we have to say that we are in a very, very difficult, vulnerable situation in the Carpathian Basin, precisely because of the effects of climate change. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-79	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the State Secretary, Mr Magyar Levente, as rapporteur, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Hungarian Levente: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-80	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear speaker, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am pleased that the comments were fundamentally positive in terms of content and substance. We therefore agree on the goals, which is once again welcome, because, as we have seen from previous and today's debates, there is often no consensus among the parties of Parliament even in important foreign policy objectives. I cannot stress the importance of how welcome, forward-looking and welcome it is that, in this case, I see that building in Central Europe is an issue that is not surrounded by bloody political debates, just as such sharp remarks have not been made in this debate. I think it's an important step in the direction of doing something really good here. In what form, with what budget, we are obviously trying to find the optimal framework and construction. Here is my request that the faint flame of hope, which may live within you, will come out of this a program of good and forward-looking, responsiblely accomplished and good results, be welcome and welcome, because there is the intention to do so. I think I'm hoping you'll have the ability. They will be able to measure the performance of our work easily, as we hope that this school will be able to open its doors in 22 or 23 at the latest. A clear measure of success will be that this school will be filled with students, especially students from across borders who are not Hungarian native speakers. In order to address these non-Hungarian-speaking young people in our region, we need to provide something that goes beyond average, goes beyond high standards, something quite excellent, outstanding, attractive, world-class. Here, I'd like to learn about the cost that has been mentioned many times. This HUF 2 billion may be enough for start-ups, start-ups and maintenance of the foundation in the next few years, but I would like to predict that we will be working with serious amounts, since the physical establishment of such a school and then the maintenance of this year will amount to peppery amounts. I think that in times of epidemic, crisis, we should not give up our need to think in perspectives, to plan for perspectives, to think strategically. Obviously, the focus is on the defense, it's on the front line, it needs to focus resources now, but it's not an exclusive. In the background, why not think in a direction and content that is trying to strengthen Hungary's regional positions in a decade-long outlook? Once again, the basic principle is to bring the peoples of Central Europe closer together, and the best way to do so, I think that at a young age, we can get experiences for our fellow countrymen and the children of the people around us that can determine their positive relationship with each other for a lifetime. I would like to know that those who, yesterday in the Romanian legislature, a few weeks ago, did not, because yesterday the law was only announced, said yes to the Trianon Act, said yes to the division, said yes to the maintenance of alienation, how many of them have a meaningful personal experience with Hungary. I do not mean that you have spoken to a Hungarian from Transylvania, but that as a young person, you would have known this culture for weeks and years. I think they're very few. I don't dare say it's anyone, but I'm sure it's very few. If, ten to twenty or thirty years later, because historical analogies have been spoken, let us think bravely in such perspectives, if such a question were to take place then, I very much hope that the basic attitude will be different, because we will have these personal foundations to move towards the approach. We do not want to wait 10 years, 20 years or 30 years, and we would like to do so now, and, as has been said, as the largest people in the region, we have a responsibility to draw close to each other, since unfortunately we cannot always expect this from somewhere else. This is an important step in this direction. As far as the organisational framework is concerned, as it may have been revealed from the expos and comments, from background materials, this is not a traditional Hungarian high school, this is not a Hungarian high school, it is not a Hungarian high school, it is not a Hungarian high school, the most interesting thing of which is that other languages are also published in addition to Hungarian. This would be an institution designed to operate in a completely different logic, specifically targeting non-Hungarian speakers, providing them with an international accreditation course in English, training with native language teachers, which, once again, puts this school at the forefront of the world and could also listen to objects in their own language. No one will come here from Belgrade, Bucharest, or I will do so from Krakow, Vidin, so that they can learn Hungarian and partly in their own language. There are excellent ethnic high schools in Budapest, and they are not full of children from the cross-border majority society, because it is not enough in itself that the possibility of learning in a given language is offered, we have to give an order of magnitude more. We have to give them English at a standard that is nothing else in the region, we have to provide an environment that is nothing else in the region, and we also have to provide daily access to their own mother tongue, in addition to the fact that they are obviously also to be introduced to Hungarians, although we hope it can be achieved by the environment itself. All these reasons have led us to propose that this should not be done within the formal framework of the Public Education Act. This is a question of greater flexibility, even through genre features, more flexibility than the legal framework can handle. By the way, at the beginning of our thinking we started by examining the Hungarian secondary schools teaching ethnic language, among which they are quite excellent, but we found that this kind of shift in scale and genre, which we have to jump here, is simply not suitable for this institutional framework. [[12.00]] This does not mean that we will not continue to support Serbian, German, Croatian, Slovak and other ethnic schools in Budapest, but this is something else. Here we have to show a great deal in competitiveness and attractiveness to make this thing work. Dear House, I think I've responded pretty much to the suggestions. Once again, I ask for trust, to be more precise, to put the mistrust to sleep or to reduce it. I do not wish to place this institution in the wider Hungarian public education and public education space, because I cannot do this, I do not know the question. What I can promise you is that this institution will fulfill the noble purpose it is destined for, what we are discussing here. We will strive to do this as best we can, with the highest cost-effectiveness, and once again: we will be able to objectively measure our performance already in the near future, let us say, in the medium-distance future, within a few years, when it opens its doors I hope this school will, and then everything will be revealed. On the question, if not today and tomorrow, we'll be able to account for it in two or three years. That's what I'm gonna do in front of you right now. We didn't talk about how big we were planning the institution. We would like to reach such a 400-500 scale in a few years, so 400-500 students living in it, mostly students with non-Hungarian lips across the border, live in this institution and study there. Obviously, there is a need to mobilise substantial financial resources, but at the same time we expect that the system can become self-sustaining for 5-6 years in addition to providing reduced, more precisely, or full-paid scholarships to those who need it, in addition to the fact that there will obviously be a huge tuition fee for the majority. I will continue to be available if there are any questions. That's probably all I have to say about the most important things right now. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-19-81	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Next up is the 1993 XLVIII on mining. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The government referral is T/13646. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The need for sustainability of the economic recovery over the last decade, as well as the need to address the negative economic impact of the international pandemic situation at the beginning of this year, have also made it necessary to review and expand domestic extraction opportunities at government level. The Hungarian Mining and Geological Service carried out a country-wide overview of the geological and excavable quantities of raw materials, such as sand, gravel, cement materials, which are important for the construction industry, following the definition of the mandate of a government decision of July 2019. The analysis showed that Hungary would be able to supply domestic construction raw material for decades even with the production of 25-30 million cubic metres a year. The study shows that 1.3 billion cubic metres of gravel can be extracted from the mining sites in addition to the production of 14-17 million cubic metres in previous years, but even in the case of the growing production of 20-25 million cubic metres, it could, in principle, be a source of raw material for the domestic construction industry for decades. The 309 million cubic metres of sand that can be extracted from the mining sites, in addition to the production of 7.5 million cubic metres in previous years, but even with the growing production of 10 million cubic metres per year, can in principle provide a reliable source of raw material for decades. The 283 million cubic metres of cement and lime can be extracted in connection with the laying of mines, including limestone, clay, clay, and marble raw materials in the previous years, from 1 to 1.5 million cubic metres, but up to 2 million cubic metres of production, in principle, could provide up to 200 to 300 years of domestic raw materials for domestic economic development. At the same time, due to the legal requirements affecting access to mineral resources, nature conservation, environmental protection, water protection, heritage protection and soil protection, significant restrictions limit the supply of raw materials, which is natural, as in the case of certain resources, we are talking about potentially competitive uses, but these barriers are currently effective and real in front of the extractive side. Dear Parliament, Infrastructural investments in all national economies, see road construction, rail development and sustained two-digit growth in housing activities challenge the construction sector, and we hope that this dynamic growth will continue with the past of the pandemic after a bounce. In addition to the increase in demand, however, supply disruptions have also occurred and occur. Thus, it is possible to transport the raw material to the mixing plants from a significant distance mainly in the case of concrete gravel, with a forecasting of 800,000 cubic metres per year in the county of Pest compared to the entrepreneurial capacity. The pebble and sandy gravel extracted in the territory of the country not only serves domestic construction needs, but also obtains export from it where transport costs make it profitable. In order to ensure the sustainability of the growth and positive effects of the construction business, it is particularly important to ensure the security of supply of raw and raw materials production in the construction sector. In addition to increasing demand, increasing production and continuity of supply will avoid drastic price increases in construction materials, which would also have a significant impact on the construction sector, which is one of the engines of domestic growth, and would, of course, have a significant upward impact on the prices to be paid by domestic citizens, which we would like to avoid. Dear House, Although Hungary is doing well in the fight against the coronal virus epidemic, the pandemic has highlighted that, in the event of disruptions of international supply chains due to the epidemic, it is essential to increase the involvement of domestic resources in economic processes in order to maintain our operational capacity. This will reduce the excessive international exposure of Hungary's economy. Honourable Members, Achieving the functioning of the construction sector and the extent of previous growth requires immediate public intervention. The purpose of the bill before you is to propose a legislative amendment in order to support the research and extraction of domestic construction materials. The Hungarian Mining Association, which also composed 43 domestic construction materials mines, participated continuously in the preparation of the regulatory proposals made in the bill as a result of a long year's work. Their professional proposals have been fully accepted for professional reasons in order to achieve a genuinely forward-looking regulation, to which the market also responds. He also informed Minister Palkovic in a letter of support for the alliance. The importance of the case is well demonstrated by the fact that the largest domestic mines, just to mention a few, are the Basalt-Középkő Kőbányok Kft., Colas Északkő Bányásti Kft., Duna-Dráva Cement Kft., Kő- és Kovács Minási Kft., Omya Hungaria Mészkő Kft., PERLIT-92 Bányászati és Felmező Kft., Readymix-Lesence Kft. and Wienerberger Téglaipari Zrt. their leaders have given their support to the proposal separately. [[12.10]] The amendments proposed in the Mining Act make it possible to ensure efficient and immediate supply of domestic construction mineral raw materials, thus guaranteeing the need for imports and increasing security of supply for raw materials for which the natural characteristics of the country make this possible. The critical economic and social situation that has arisen during the exceptional situation justifies the extension of water, agricultural land and a differentiated public engagement in the management of forests to domestic construction mineral assets. It should be ensured that in all cases where domestic mines cannot meet demand as a result of the epidemic situation, the State will be given the means and opportunities to guarantee the immediate handling of the problem. The amendments allow the organisation exercising public ownership rights to catalyse research and production processes by finding new sites and improving the supply of raw materials by preventing the closure of mines for economic reasons or the cessation of production, thus removing one of the major obstacles to the launch of strategic investments and the re-launch of the economy, which are also important for the risk of epidemic. In order for the State to make good use of its natural resources available by means of mining, it is necessary to abolish unjustified land reservations and to grant the State the right to pre-empt the property concerned by the right to mine mineral resources, which is protected by the right to pre-empt the State, in the event of the transfer of ownership of the property concerned by the right to mine mineral resources. Dear Parliament, Dear Parliament, The measures taken in the spring emergency as a prelude to the current bill have already had a positive impact, since the use of the announced research on mineral raw materials in the construction sector has led to a significant increase in the number of applications for the establishment of mining sites in recent months. In the year 2019, i.e. last year, 15 mining sites were established all year round in Hungary, whereas only from the beginning of August 2020, i.e. in just a few months, about 19 new mining sites were applied for or modified in connection with the raw materials concerned. This means that, on an annual basis, multiples of the number of mining sites established in the previous period have already been achieved this year. In order for the above favourable trend to continue, it is necessary to eliminate unjustified land reservations and to grant the State's right to pre-empt certain properties affected by mining activities. It is therefore considered appropriate to maintain the rules introduced in the event of an emergency after 31 December 2020. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Erik Bánki. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-84	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that there is a bill before this House and that we are here today to have a substantive debate on which there has been a long one-year preparatory process, as Mr State Secretary said, involving all the actors involved in this conciliation. Thus, all members of the Hungarian Mining Association also had the opportunity to form an opinion on this bill, and not only to form an opinion on it, but also to reflect the ideas, expectations and experiences, the knowledge they have accumulated over the past few years. I am very pleased that these providers, these owners, and therefore companies with mining rights, understand and accept the need for exceptional measures in an exceptional situation. I think that the state itself is a sufficient guarantee that, at the time of the pandemic or at unexpected times such as this, the economy particularly needs to be able to supply all resources from domestic raw materials; because we have seen it during the spring period, and it is increasingly reflected in this new wave of viruses, that international transport networks are not only stalling, but also disappearing from time to time. We cannot afford to delay even one day with the decisions, the activities, the investments to be made to deal with the economic crisis caused by the pandemic and to restart the Hungarian economy. To this end, I think that it is a very good initiative and that the Fidesz fraction has certainly supported those parts of the bill that strengthen public engagement during these periods, where the Hungarian State is granted a pre-emptive right in the event of a change of ownership in these areas. An important objective of the bill, as I said, is to strengthen the involvement of domestic resources in domestic economic processes. We believe that the amendments to the Mining Act can guarantee the efficient and immediate supply of domestic construction mineral resources, as well as the need for import and security of supply, in the case of raw materials where the natural characteristics of the country make this possible. The critical economic and social situation that has arisen during the exceptional situation thus justifies the extension of the differentiated state involvement in the management of water, agricultural land and forest to the domestic mineral assets of construction. Quite rightly, the bill seeks to ensure the possibility that, in all cases where, as a result of the epidemic, the mining market is unable to meet the extra demand, the State will be given the means by which this deficiency can be dealt with relatively quickly and effectively. The amendments give the authority to the organisation exercising public ownership rights to catalyse research and production processes, to improve the supply of raw materials by finding new sites, by preventing mine closures for economic reasons, or by preventing the cessation of production, thus avoiding one of the major obstacles to the launch of strategic investments that are also important for the risk of epidemic and the re-launch of the economy. In order for the State to use its natural resources available through mining with good economic care, it is necessary to eliminate unjustified land reservations and to grant the State the right to pre-empt certain properties involved in mining activities. Therefore, in the event of the transfer of ownership of the property subject to mineral mining rights, the Hungarian State is entitled, quite rightly, to a pre-emptive right. Mineral raw materials that can be mined in mining fields for properties that are protected by the right to pre-emption are all raw materials, as mentioned by the State Secretary in his expozee, which are key items for the provision of domestic construction. As the Secretary of State pointed out, Hungary has a very significant mineral wealth even in the recent 25-30 million tonnes per year, since if you look at the gravel property, there is more than 1 billion 300 million cubic metres of it, but if you look at the sand, there is more than 300 million cubic metres of it. This guarantees that the raw material will be secured for the next decades. So the problem is not that there is no sufficient amount of raw materials in Hungary, but the bill seeks to address the situation, the situation where there is an extraordinary situation, when there is a need for much more raw materials and raw materials than in the average period. In this case, it gives the State the opportunity to do so if private owners cannot significantly increase their production with their own assets, with their own resources. [[12.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that, after this bill came before this House after a proper, long and thorough preparation, it was able to address all the issues that could arise from private companies involved in mining rights. I think that these issues will be dealt with correctly, so that the adoption of this bill will help to ensure that, at a time of crisis, now, at the time of the pandemic or at a later time, when unexpected situations and critical periods of economic development come, the State has the opportunity to intervene and ensure the supply of domestic raw materials, thus providing an adequate background for the development of the Hungarian economy. So I ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Tibor Nunkovics. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I must be honest with you that I am a little confused with the proposal before us on the one hand, because there really are points in it that can solve certain problems, and in these things the state really has to do, but in its main point, you have actually denied it. And I'm sorry, I don't want to get involved with my colleague Erik Bánki, but you were talking about a shortage in this area, and you were talking about it, Mr Secretary of State, that it could even be exported here. And we're actually going through the country in different places. So in my constituency, for example, there's a pretty big deal about this right now in Pilistor, where they'd like to create a quarry on a site designed for a former holiday zone, and besides, there's already an existing resort area where a lot of people live outside, and it's obvious that the locals don't want it. A referendum initiative was launched there, and the local body of representatives resigned in its entirety, so there will be new elections after the pandemic period and the second wave as soon as possible. But back on track: so we want to explore the country, while, according to Mr. Secretary of State's expozee, this is not really necessary at the moment. So let's not dig up our landscapes and rivers because they want to build abroad from Hungarian gravel and Hungarian gravel. So I feel the need for this as a Hungarian, I must be honest with you, I don't see it. Of course, I know that this is a big business, and there are businesses around Viktor Orbán who enjoy the fruitage, but I think that this should not be the most important thing. But let us consider what the proposal itself contains. Article 1 In fact, if I interpret it correctly, but disprove me, Minister of State, if this is not the case, you will abolish the mining fee, which is actually to be paid if someone uses pebbles extracted at the dredge. I don't see where this amount is going, so it goes into the big hat for public finances? 'Cause there's no such thing. It would be nice if you could tell me a few words about that. Maybe I just didn't see it, and it's in there, in fact, just hidden, or it's gonna come out from the detailed rules where it's actually going. If not, then I would obviously like to submit an amendment to this in any way, all the more so, because the last 15 million cubic metres of excavation, based on the 2016 data, have been used here in Hungary mainly on gravel. Article 3 However, from an environmental point of view, I feel a little concerned. So here, without breaking the ground, this part of the proposal is removed. I'm not sure that's absolutely important, and it would be nice if it could stay that way. Article 4 The main objective of the proposal is apparent in Section 5. I understand that there is a small enterprise that has been sitting on this mine opening right for years, and nothing is going to happen while the construction industry might expect the materials produced here, and the state would, as it were, strike down and re-release the relevant concession right. But let us pay attention to the fact that, while we are saying and you are saying that, in principle, small and medium-sized enterprises should be taken care of, right now, in a pandemic period, a large part of these businesses will be trapped. Then perhaps they should be supported so that they can begin this process instead of nationalising it, let us say. It was my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, who was here yesterday talking about nonsense and communism and communists instead of looking around his own ranks. So that's the last time it happened anyway. You weren't alive then, because you're younger than me, but you can't see that. Article 5 §2 should be translated a little, I felt, but maybe I was the only one who couldn't understand it. Article 9 § 2 concretely cements this nationalisation initiative. I say, I understand the problem, so I can see that there are delays in this market, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, resulting from financial problems and that need to be addressed, but I do not see the guarantee that these concession rights will again be transferred to small and medium-sized enterprises in the course of re-expenditure. Finally, in fact, to the contradiction that I have observed among you, dissolve it if that is not the case. So on the one hand, we need these extractions and on the other, we have a surplus. I have already put forward twice a proposal with the aim of asking the affected population if they want to open a mine, surface or subsurface within a certain kilometer. Unfortunately, the Fidesz majority voted against this twice in the Committee on Sustainable Development. Therefore, if they were not so necessary, this proposal could have been passed on one occasion. I'm sorry it didn't happen, but I'm looking forward to my questions being answered with comfort. Thank you.
u2020-11-19-87	Thank you very much. Honestly, I don't understand the point of personalism, but let's just put it behind us. I ask Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc not to respond to that. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Lőrinc Nacsa.
u2020-11-19-88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not worth it, so I'm not responding. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, In the history of mining in Hungary, a significant turning point occurred a hundred years ago, when the country and this sector suffered a huge loss. A hundred years ago, 89 percent of Hungary's iron ore production, a third of its production of lignite and the whole of its copper and salt mining were under the control of foreign countries. Since 2017, the Hungarian Mining and Geological Service has been responsible for the Hungarian mining administration. The MBFSZ is a separate central office with tasks and competence, which carries out the mining and geological tasks of the State together with the relevant county government offices. The management of the MBFSZ is supervised by the Minister of Innovation and Technology. This service is a customer-centred, modern mining and geology service that ensures balance, competitiveness and sustainability within its field, thereby promoting security of supply and managing natural resources, public interests and the needs of society. According to the National Property Act, mining research and extraction and related mining ancillary activities are the exclusive economic activities of the State. The country's mineral resources are naturally owned by the State. All these natural treasures are part of our country's natural resources and national assets, and they have been registered by the Hungarian Mining and Geological Service and its predecessors since 1953. Today, the public mineral and geothermal resources register includes 4108 registered mining areas. [[12.30]] Our country's total production of coal is about 8 million tonnes of black coal, brown coal or lignite in recent years. Our production of hard coal has been under 100 thousand tonnes since the years, and there is now stagnation in lignite production following a decline in the 2010s. The mining of Hungary's ore in insignificant quantities, the production of manganese ore ceased in the 2010s, and the production of bauxite also decreased significantly. Nor is the production of oil and natural gas in Hungary significant, all of which can be traced back to these reasons, the national trauma of a hundred years ago. For everyday life, such as construction, the production of so-called non-metallic mineral raw materials, which are neither energy sources nor ores, includes building gravel, building sand, building and ornamental stone raw materials, cement and lime raw materials, ceramic raw materials, peat, bogland, bog lime, and mineral mining raw materials. The production of these non-metallic mineral raw materials in 2018 amounted to 37,8 million cubic metres, which is 4.9 million cubic metres higher than a year earlier. The national economy, such as the construction sector, needs an increasing amount of non-metallic mineral resources. Recent surveys have shown that there is still enough of these basic materials, which are vital for construction and investment, for decades, but that for legal and other natural resources that influence access to mineral resources, other factors such as heritage conservation may lead to a drastic reduction in the amount of supply that can be planned. The availability of mineral resources is largely impossible to exploit due to legal, environmental and social constraints on land use, and even in recent years there have been problems with supply of raw materials in the construction sector, which was further discussed by the Secretary of State. Both Hungary and Europe suffer from a severe import dependence on mineral raw materials. This international exposure could also cause significant economic damage in the event of disruptions to international supply chains due to an epidemic situation, but an exclamation mark draws our attention to the need to organise self-sufficiency and to reduce exposure. In order to compensate for this, it is essential to increase the involvement of domestic resources in economic processes in order to maintain operational capacity, thereby reducing the international exposure of Hungary's economy. This is what the bill before us is about, which was prepared by the professional wallet, the Minister of Innovation and Technology, with the involvement of the Hungarian Mining and Geological Service. The aim of the bill is to increase domestic production by reducing the import exposure of Hungary and the Hungarian construction industry in the case of raw materials where the natural characteristics of the country make this possible in the first place, while respecting strict conservation criteria. This will therefore increase the security of the raw materials supply of the Hungarian economy. This bill therefore serves the interests of the Hungarian national economy in addition to the appropriate guarantees, so the KDNP fraction supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In itself, it is to be praised that there is a proposal here that has been extensively consulted. This is fundamentally unusual in this government, since it usually happens that, let's say, on a foggy Saturday afternoon, Mónika Dunai reviews the situation in the Hungarian media market, and then writes a bill about it. But what we are talking about here is that there has been a wide-ranging, true, wide-ranging consultation with professional organisations on this issue, which, in itself, would be a reason for praise, if not for this to be normal, but, in the end, this is how it came to be, let us note this. The bill basically admits what we said at the beginning of the pandemic situation, that the Hungarian economy's exposure is so great, we said this spring that it is worth considering that certain strategic sectors must have a domestic capacity to supply Hungary when the supply chain is interrupted. Then you probably thought about the masks for the ventilators, and we just generally noted that it was simpler and cheaper to have everything manufactured and brought here in China, and then came a situation where it couldn't be done. Now you are suddenly thinking of building materials, which is not what we thought this building material might be, but that is not what we were thinking, and that is why there are other strategic areas that could otherwise be achieved with much less debate so that domestic capacities can be expanded. You said that 43 companies were interested in this and that the national economy was interested in it. This could basically be accepted if you didn't keep hearing news about how these companies were connected to NER on the one hand, and how they wanted to acquire certain real estates, what one-year, one-and-a-half-year procedures were behind them, that they wanted to acquire real estate, produce construction materials, builder materials, and how they acted against the owners. I think that there would be another way of doing this; it is not certain to exclude what you are thinking, but to complement what you are thinking about. Is it possible that someone owns an area, a productive area, or what do you call it? With an unwarranted reservation, someone bought an area he's not using right now, took it as an investment, and he wants to grow it. Maybe he doesn't want to sell this. Sometimes even economic reasons do not lead to this, just that they simply do not act with him in a way that he wants to cooperate. I know these cases, and they come to me with them when violently, bypassing administrative bodies, bypassing laws, they put owners in a position where they might have no choice but to sell this area to this entrepreneur. I think, Mr Secretary, that this is not the right way to do this, and perhaps we can agree on that. If there has already been a consultation with the companies, then, I think it is not certain that a code of ethics should be written, but perhaps this could also be agreed that the person occupying that area unduly is occupying that area because he has simply experienced an unjustified attack on the part of the mining contractor, which makes cooperation impossible. I don't know if this is a state pre-emptive option. Correction: I do not think that state pre-emption law is the right solution. The amendment to the rules on compliance and enforcement of laws would probably help more, the proper application of the compensation rules would probably help these cases even more, and even expropriation could be considered in these cases. However, I think that a certain person, the owner's rights and the right guarantees, must also be borne in mind, with the agreement of course: it is necessary to keep the economy moving, agreeing, of course, that there is a need for a sufficient amount of raw materials and, where appropriate, for strategic domestic businesses to have access to this. [[12.40]] For my part, I'm involved on some level. The town of Komló is one of the largest stone, pebble and andesit mines in Hungary. I'm very proud that, for example, this company has never been involved in a scandal like the ones they make me, and a lot of people come to me. I am sure that the work of this company will continue to be available in the future, and, of course, if any assistance can be given, we will give it not only because of the hop company, but also to ensure that disputes are not settled as they have been. Not by force. Don't use force, because it will trigger a different attitude from the owners. But let me bring you one more thing, which is why I'm also very proud of the company at home, the hop company, without praising them more than once. And it is that they have always put a great deal of emphasis on the environment. They put a great deal of emphasis on the restoration of landscape wounds, and I think that if we relax on these regulations, and I say that I come from an area where the downtown was effectively decoded during the coal mine, where recultivation obligations still exist 20 years after the mine is closed, and we can still see the landscape wounds, on those, I suggest we not relax. Don't relax, because they're not a memento or a monument, but as an accident hazard, they're staying up here as a source of terrible danger that geologists obviously agree to and explain to you. As city manager, I used to meet a lot of people like that. Starting from the water base, they leave a lot of cases through the moving parts of the city that are not handled properly, especially if they relax on the rules, can cause problems. Therefore, I propose that consultations should not take into account only the opinion of the sector. It is very important, of course, the opinion of the sector, because they provide economic production, but take into account the environmental aspects, and I ask Mr Secretary of State that, if you can make any other proposal that will contribute to a calmer, European settlement of current ownership and disputeary mining rights, you should do so. Without this, unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal; we will be able to support it together. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-92	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Once again, we are faced with a law which, I think, will cause quite a lot of debate; for if we also consider that so far, I might say, there were such precedents of this content that when they seized me and opened up mining sites that essentially affect the lives of local communities, in this situation, I think there have been discussions on countless occasions. Here in the middle of a pandemic, when there was a lot to deal with, I could say they didn't really do anything, now this law comes before us. I understand that there are construction projects that need such a thing, and you consider that there are issues that you have not been able to complete in recent months, but perhaps years can be said. Therefore, this must be resolved suddenly when we are well beyond the 150,000 active infectants. But they are doing so because they can say what they have referred to as long-standing or long-prepared laws coming before this House and working for Parliament, but probably if it has been a long time, and especially if there has been such consultation, let us say that with those involved who could benefit from it, they must have thought or seen and understood that you have done an impact assessment to support the justification of the amendment; even because 2016. CHAPTER IV Since 29 e, there has been a regulation on ex-ante and ex-post impact assessments. It is currently regulated by law that the impact assessment should examine all the effects of the proposed legislation considered significant, in particular its socio-economic and budgetary impacts. But since it is not very much that you are not being brought here, and in this case you have not brought this impact assessment here, I assume that you have not broken any legislation, and that is what we have, so in this respect, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you to see the basis for your decision to adopt this rule in a special situation. Because the adoption of the Fundamental Law to be presented by the Government, the proposal for amendment of the basic law, the bill, the decree of the Government, the ministerial decree together will require a preliminary and ex post impact assessment. And you guys are gonna sit this one out, and you're not gonna bring it. It is enough for me, in itself, to assume that you do not want to share information with us, so that you do not ensure the right situation for the decision, so either you will replace it, or I must say now that, in this form, this law is not eligible under such circumstances. Now, as far as the law is concerned, there is also serious doubt that there is indeed a great difference between us in the world view, because in your view of state, I would say, the entrepreneurial state, although the law goes a little further... here the state wants to intervene explicitly. In these circumstances, they are, of course, confronted with the local government, which is the local interest, where a small village does not necessarily have the interest of building a very large mine there, and I understand that they are in conflict with each other. But we consider it more important for the local interests, the interests of the local authorities, the interests of the population, and therefore stepping into it in such a bumfordian way in itself that we have now come and conclude this story, I think it is wrong. In this sense, if there is an entrepreneur who, under the current circumstances, as my fellow Member László Szakács mentioned earlier, can and can do this, then they may also need to be asked how they do it. I think that, by the way, at the time of the pandemic, even in the construction material market, there was no shortage and there was no process that would otherwise justify such extraordinary intervention. In fact, I have to say that not so long ago we read in the press that the construction material market, the Fire Trades, did very well because I do not want to recall the waves now, Mr. Secretary of State knows precisely that, taking advantage of the situation, both in the private sector and in the corporate sector, who have pre-stocked it and the private sector, bought it; and in this sense, compared to other sectors, the construction material market or purchase has not decreased, but has increased. So from this point of view, it is not justified either, I think, here, this is the special procedure. Not even because, at a time like this, I think we should deal with something else. I certainly do not agree that, in a sense... if I say my previous point is that here you are hiking Parliament with your proposals prepared earlier, so that you can work anyway. [[12.50]] It's a sign of panic control. They're pulling something out right now just to talk about it. Although Secretary of State smiles at it, there may be a lot more to it, because they want to solve a problem that has been unsolved for a long time. And the mines in the area of Madocsa will also be put to great effort at this time, because it seems to be more important than saving human lives. With all due respect, I suggest that if it was so important for you to negotiate with entrepreneurs, which you do not normally do with others other than entrepreneurs, if there is no impact assessment for this decision, you should continue to consider and forward it to the government to take the opportunity to deal with free testing instead. In addition to free testing, which will help us get through this epidemic as quickly as possible, we have accurate information, and based on accurate information, we can decide what are the most important steps to prevent or slow down the spread of the epidemic. In the meantime, while this is happening, if the interests of businesses matter here, they should not only be in selected sectors, areas, but also in a very general way, in order to provide wage support to workers. You have all the information at your disposal, you know exactly what business has been reduced by half, by a third of its turnover, you know exactly how many people this company employs in the current context, how much it has released, and even though you can see what a decline there is in the economy, that here it can reach 10 percent on an annual basis, leaving people and families to try to cope with everything themselves. I think that this is wrong, and that is why, in this respect, this family and wage support should be given an opportunity, an opportunity, and the conditions for this to work. Finally, in addition to workers, the same applies to small pensioners who should be given much more attention to the government; while the crisis situation, the emergency situation, and the effects of the economic crisis are increasingly pointing to a social and social crisis, I must definitely highlight the small pensioners from among the groups concerned. Secretary of State, help them, give them a chance to survive. It is not survival if people go from house to house in a small village, the representatives of these entrepreneurs, and try to put the people who live there on their side, to wander the land for pennies, or to get their support to go ahead in the process of expropriation, or now beyond that. There's no need for that. These require local consultations and must be conducted there. What is needed, however, is to help the people, the elderly, who are deeply affected by this crisis. That is why I am proposing that you think again about the fact that, as a proposal, you have already received it from the Democratic Coalition in a variety of forms, as an initiative for legislative amendment, as a programme launch, and as a public awareness of this. I understand that you have all ignored this, but please think of the people, the small pensioners whose lives depend on it and help them in the coming months, and of such a law, in addition to wanting to amend the 1993 Mining Act. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-19-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-94	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to participate in the debate of this law from a completely different perspective. At the same time, I would like to respond in advance to the introduction of my fellow members of the Government. Congressman Nacsa mentioned the concepts of meeting the social needs of sustainability. This bill goes against them, so this bill in its form will cause terrible environmental damage and risks. I will deal with this in more detail. However, I fully agree that the country's economic exposure should be reduced compared to abroad. Therefore, projects such as the Budapest-Belgrád railway should not be launched when thousands of billions of Hungarian people are spent, and such a fellow Member talked about it in a crisis year, this project is not stopped, it is not used for job creation, for economic development, but also for encrypting documents. But I would like to mention one more problem. This can't be a stranger to Congressman Erik Bánki, he's a baranya resident Member. Congressman Nacsa spoke about how much our natural resources and energy carriers have been reduced as a result of the outrageous Trianon peace dictatorship, and the rest, I completely agree with that. At the same time, we know that a few years ago in Baranya County, the largest oil field in the last thirty years has been found. And look at the effect that this has had. In particular, the effect, Mr Secretary of State, is that the extraction started there, and I understand that the extraction is now around 6,000 barrels per day, and they want to run it up to 11,000 barrels. This extraction is carried out by an American-Hungarian private company on the largest Hungarian oil field found in 30 years. And what you can see from this is one of the poorest regions in the country, as you know, Mr Erik Bánki, is that, in particular, the settlement affected by three territorial numbers has increased the turnover of business tax. On the other hand, the extremely poor area gets a brutal load, a lot of trucks show up, roads get ruined, houses cracked, noise loads, dust loads; that's what they got from this. Here they talked about how such a Hungarian Texas could develop Texas in Baranya. None of this is felt by one of the poorest regions in the country. And this tragedy is that when we find such a treasure, we find such a field, too, there is almost no way for the population of the region to benefit from it. I think that if this can happen in Hungary, then there are very, very serious system problems here, that such a exposed field cannot help such a poor area. And the surrounding mayors have confirmed that it has created jobs specifically, because there was a need for a night watchman or two in the area. So everything that's wrong has been given to the region, and what's profitable, obviously with the deduction of the appropriate mining fees, and that's going to be taken away by private companies. It's a tragedy. On the other hand, moving to the law: I think that this reflects a completely wrong view and goes against what the government has been talking about recently, how important it is, as my fellow Member Lőrinc Nacsa puts it, the created world, the natural environment. It can also be seen that this was only published in the government's work at rhetorical level, because they do not want to switch to the green economy, they do not switch to the use of construction waste as raw materials, but to focus on extraction and move in this direction again. I'd like to share a shocking statistic with you. A large increase in construction and demolition waste has been observed over the past period, most of the waste generated in 2017 and 39 percent of it came from construction and demolition waste, which was only 16 percent in 2004. And we can see a lot of examples in the countries of the Union, where these waste is used in the material, so we can build an industry, and we can use 60-80 percent of these materials instead of being transported in an environmentally destructive manner and who knows what uncontrolled conditions they land. Astoundingly, there has been a recent incident in the city of Pécs, perhaps you have heard of it, when large amounts of construction debris have been placed in the interior from a demolition to a natural environment. This is against the law in all respects, I also filed a complaint, but on the other hand there is a system problem that there is no industry in Hungary behind the processing and use of these construction debris, or that the capacities are inadequate, even though this alone would be a very serious economic opportunity. And yet you're going the other way, how to increase extraction. It is quite shocking, however, that they have not allowed this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Sustainable Development; and I cannot take seriously the fact that appropriate consultations have been made with all those involved. It didn't happen. And especially from an environmental point of view, it seems to me that it has not been examined in substance. [[13.00]] Therefore, it is also unacceptable, Mr Nunkovich mentioned that he had a proposal for local involvement to be able to enforce this proposal on the basis of the legislation. It is therefore specifically proposed to rewrite very, very brutal rules to support extraction. And the most amazing thing is that, according to the draft, removal of water belonging to national assets in the water basin would no longer be a mining activity. This is an extreme and incredibly irresponsible amendment, and it is shocking that the committee responsible for environmental protection has not even been able to negotiate this! You know, my fellow Members, that previous dredgers, the artifacts that have been built in recent decades, have caused fundamental problems for the rivers concerned, and these interventions have resulted in deepening and groundwater sinking in the surrounding areas. And you obviously know, fellow Members, what is the significance of the pebbles along the rivers in Hungary; in a significant part, 40 percent of the population supply drinking water from coastal wells. This is almost entirely the case in the case of Budapest, and such dredges pose a huge risk, and if these natural filter layers are damaged in any way, the supply of drinking water could also be compromised. However, I would have a long list of the risks that this could pose, suction effect, speed increase, disruption of a bed filled with loads, but if we are going to argue about this enough, I think that, at the next item, the drop in water may even be a problem with the cooling water supply of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I think that this is an extremely irresponsible amendment to the law, and it does not point to the future in any way, so it is not trying to develop an industry to recycle the brutal amount of construction debris, it is trying to develop the Hungarian economy, but it is creating extremely serious environmental risks through new extraction. Of course, this bill is completely unacceptable to us. And then I would like to make a few more comments on the subject. On the one hand, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the fact that we have been writing more than once about the extremely prolonged recultivation of the Karolina interpretation in Pécs. I received a very positive letter from the Secretary of State, and I thanked him for that. The point of this was that we could organize an on-site tour with those involved in the area. Obviously, the epidemiological situation and restrictions are delaying this a little bit, but I am counting on it to be able to do so as soon as possible, let's say, at the beginning of next year, and to make sure that the regeneration of this very, very serious landscape damage can accelerate and not extend until the 2030s, because this in itself carries a significant environmental risk. I think that, even though there was a source of funding in this year's budget, the state should also be involved in the work, because this could be done in parallel with the company concerned. There is a place, place, it could be accelerated by increasing capacity, and then this risk would be reduced in this way. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to one more thing, and I would also like to ask for your help. I was specifically approached from Baranya County by seeing signs of unauthorized mining activity. I immediately contacted the mining department, the mining department, and it operates within the government office, and I officially asked them for information, and I received a reply very slowly, so almost a month later, when they told me that yes, the investigation was under way, that there was an on-site inspection, that they had taken a report. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] This was at the end of September, and I sent a letter again on October 5th, and not only sent a letter to the mining department and the government commissioner, but I submitted a specific request for data in the public interest. And it's amazing to me that after more than 1.5 months, I didn't get any answers to that, so when I specifically asked for this particular report when I looked into the case. And I think it's amazing that the authorities are working on such an important case with such a slow process, and that, by the way, it's almost impossible to communicate directly with the mining department, everything is somehow signed with the government commissioner, and in any case that concerns an authority that's stuck under the government office, so it's slowing down the process. I would ask Mr Secretary of State to look into this issue and try to influence these channels of communication to work and to take action on these matters. And I have one more question, though I might have asked that at the next item on the agenda. In Pécs, not only is the proximity of the nuclear cemetery a serious challenge, but there has been a very, very long cherished plan to restart the former uranium mining activity. And we know that those who live in Pécs or Pécs, what brutal environmental destruction this former uranium mining activity has done there in Kővápőszőlős region, caused environmental destruction that can never be repaired, has already gone to the recultivation of tens of billions forints, and maintaining this condition consumes hundreds of millions of dollars a year. And yet there are demands that, with the false promise of economic development, obviously from corporate interests or even higher interests, from the point of view of the so-called possession of uranium resources, or even geopolitical aspects, are interested in launching this mine re-opening process here. We get news of this very, very rarely; what information do you have, Mr Secretary of State, on how this case is going, ongoing, mining plant formation in this case county, or has the process stalled, and how the actors operate? By the way, we can see that sometimes companies with changed names, but they appear with similar actors in this case, try to initiate different procedures, and I regret that this has always been slavishly assisted by the surrounding municipalities. For example, the Pécs municipality used to provide almost free access to all kinds of research drilling. And it is important to know that this planned mine opening would also operate under the inhabited areas of Pécs, which is obviously completely unacceptable and would clearly not generate any meaningful economic development impact. So as far as the bill is concerned, we believe that this is devastating, unacceptable, and we are voting against it. In other matters, I hope to receive an answer from the Secretary of State. Thank you.
u2020-11-19-95	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, if he is in the Chamber... [[For signal:]] But he's not in the room, so I can't give him the floor. He announced his intention to speak in writing. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members how they would like to speak further. [[There's no such signal.]] If you do not wish to take this opportunity, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-11-19-96	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for the speeches made in this debate. I am trying to reflect on some of them, or on virtually all the relevant points, here at the current closing point. There's obviously a lot of fear, and I wouldn't call it conspiracy theory, but there's a similar kind of fear in some comments, and I'd like to try to disperse them as far as possible in this next summary. One of the issues that has been raised in particular in the context of this proposal, and I would like to refer here to Mr Nunkovich's speech that the activity relating to the survey would be out of the regulation. I would like to point out here that this type of activity is carried out today by companies under the Ministry of the Interior or by companies carrying out water management tasks, and is essentially about the use of the material that can be used in their activities. This measure can therefore be interpreted in its entirety in the context of a State-State context. In this regard, too, there was fear on the part of Mr Crosses. This type of maintenance activity is still taking place today, and this law does not open any new possibilities. These interventions are still taking place today to carry out water protection tasks. In this sense, the kind of fear that it would open up such a path to the screening of water supply in Budapest, it is indeed a fear, but I would like to indicate that the presentation does not have any consequences, there is no reference in it, and there is no such possible consequence. [[13.10]] It is quite clear that part of the comments respond to environmental risks. Of course, all mining activities have environmental impacts, and it is always necessary to find the right balance from the point of view of energy and climate policy and economic development, because I think that you probably do not think that mining should be completely eliminated in Hungary and mining should be eliminated, that the miners should be sent away in order to keep our natural environment completely untouched. Obviously this is about and the government is also trying to find a very sensitive balance between environmental aspects and the interests of energy management and related mining, that balance. By the way, I think that the example of Pilistorti is a good example of the fact that the domestic regulatory environment and the domestic civil attitude together provide an excellent guarantee that the interests of mining and, in this sense, of nature conservation and economic development can balance these issues. There has been a question of land grabbing, and I think that there can obviously be a misunderstanding or misinterpretation of the measures that are included in this proposal here, mainly from the comments of Mr László Szakács, who identified the land grabbing as if it had been taken. Thus, the problem of land grabbing, which this proposal deals with, seems to have been the case in many cases in the past years when, in the case of the majority of foreign-owned enterprises, mining farms have invested in this area, although they have had mining sites, approved plans, factory plans for extraction, but nothing has happened in that area, and in many cases it has been possible to explore a merger between land owners which has suggested that it is essentially a coordinated type of production retention, which has very serious consequences for consumer prices, as it has raised the prices of construction materials. Two proposals are proposed to address the phenomenon of land grabbing. One shortens the time that may have elapsed between the laying of mines and the taking up of actual mining activities in the past of five years and, where appropriate, ten years. In the absence of any action in such an area, there was, under the old rules, no possibility of intervention to initiate meaningful activity in these areas. On the one hand, this time will be reduced, and a reduced version of the otherwise required contribution will also have to be paid by the contractor in case of inactivity. So you're using financial incentives and shortcuts to inactivity, I think it's very, very, uh, how should I put it? With gloves on, the phenomena that appear here, in the same way as the mining companies, the entrepreneurs in this area, the business community covering the very colourful ownership circle, were able to fully support them. So the type of violence that someone goes there against the reservation of the territories and then takes away these areas, so that is entirely a misunderstanding of the proposals that are included in the proposal. I understand, of course, and we take note of what Mr Varju said that they could not support this proposal, but it was indeed a surprising phenomenon in his entire contribution, which seems to have shown that the effort to coordinate with mining companies in this case did not seem to have appreciated it. In the epidemiological situation, the government strives to maintain the functioning of the Hungarian economy, the growth of the economy, so the pandemic must, of course, be dealt with, but not for fun, but for the government to make these proposals so that Hungarian economic growth can continue. We love that if Budapest is built, we like to see the economy move forward, and we want to support it with these proposals, with these amendments, so that this kind of economic growth can continue smoothly. On the State's role and state pre-emptive right, let me say that on the government side we believe that, especially in the case of mining, where the philosophy of Hungarian regulation is that the land's treasure is basically the property of the State, the State is, in fact, in some way, in a concession, giving it the opportunity to manage market players and entrepreneurs. We believe that the state can intervene as a careful farmer in a market which is otherwise predominantly privately owned, that it benefits citizens, the Hungarian community, and this entry, this intervention, and I would like to draw attention here to this pre-emptive right, according to the proposal, only when a mine or sale would be made if someone did not want to sell their land, there would be no such thing, or the entrepreneur himself would want to terminate our mining site. Therefore, the proposal is explicitly pending in this regard, and only when a transaction of this type occurs will it occur and say not to give it to your related company, you have not done anything for ten years, and it will not do anything again for ten years, but in this case it should be possible for the entity currently governing the state ownership rights to intervene, to create real economic activity, and to make sure that this market does not stop because of unjustified land bookings. Otherwise, whether there is a shortage or there is no shortage in this market, I would just like to give you an example. In the space of Hungarian economic growth, of course, the capital city and the agglomeration zone, Pest county, are the engines of it, in this region before the pandemic, we were there to bring gravel from Mályi to the concrete mixing plants. I believe that this is not a desirable phenomenon from an economic development point of view or from an environmental point of view in any way. And only two closing remarks, one of them and both of them, to raise the question of Mr Crusades. What you have said about other matters: unauthorized mining activities and related requests for information and related matters, I think that if someone is engaging in unauthorised activities in this area, it is obviously not a mining regulatory matter from the ground up, but an infringement or criminal matter. Nevertheless, I think that we will, of course, look at this question. On the re-launch of former uranium mining, I think that if someone looks at the world market of uranium at the moment, the most comforting thing for him may be that, on the basis of current and future forecast prices, such activity does not seem realistic in Hungary on a market basis, so I would like to say this to the Member as a comfort. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2020-11-19-97	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, The national policy for spent fuel and radioactive waste management will be followed by 21/2015. General debate on the proposal to amend a decision until closure. The government referral is H/13642. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, I think two items on the agenda are a bit harsh, but you have the floor.
u2020-11-19-98	Thank you very much, Mr President, especially if we consider that there will be two more in a row, that is indeed the case. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Council Directive No 70 of 2011 establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of radioactive waste required Member States to establish a national policy, national programme and national system for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, as well as a system of requirements relating thereto. Hungary adopted for the first time national policy in 2015 in compliance with its obligation under the Directive, which is the basic document of domestic spent fuel and radioactive waste management policy. National policy covers the use of radioactive materials, the use of nuclear energy in Hungary, the principles of the safe use of nuclear energy and the obligations deriving from the directive. It describes the radioactive waste types generated in Hungary, the policies for their management and the decommissioning of nuclear installations, providing a framework for the tasks set out in the national programme for their implementation and their timetable. Under the provisions of the Nuclear Power Act, the current national policy should be reviewed every five years. Dear House, The proposal for a decision before you contains the necessary amendments on the basis of a review of national policy, which concerns the chapter on the regulatory framework for national policy. Since the adoption of the policy in May 2015, a number of tasks and competences in its field have been transferred to the National Atomic Energy Office. These include, inter alia, official supervision of radioactive waste storage sites or the performance of official tasks related to radiation protection. There have also been changes in the timetable for the operation of nuclear installations over the last five years. The 20-year extension of all four blocks of the MVM Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the periodic safety review of the instructor reactor conducted in 2017 were successfully completed, under which the facility still holds a valid operating licence until 2027. In addition, the draft provides clarification for certain concepts with a view to achieving legislative coherence and facilitating uniform interpretation of the law. Dear Parliament, There was no reason for an extraordinarily revised national policy, neither for new circumstances, nor for technological and scientific progress, nor for the progress of other technical projects. The review was necessary only to ensure timely fulfilment of the obligation contained in the nuclear law. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the resolution proposal. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-100	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As State Secretary Péter Kaderjak finished his exposé, I would like to begin by saying that there are no substantive reasons for reviewing national policy, no research results or government measures that would have required this. It is simply a matter of bringing the directives on this matter before this House every five years under the Nuclear Power Act, and they must be renegotiated. It is perfectly natural to have a lively debate every time any bill on nuclear energy comes before Parliament, because it is an area of energy that is usually in the crossfire of a sharp resistance between political parties. This is no different in Hungary. I think that seeing László Lóránt Keresztes interested in the fact that we will not avoid today's debate, regardless of the fact that this draft parliamentary resolution proposal before us is a substantive change, as the Secretary of State said, does not say. I would also like to confirm that neither the investment of the four currently operating blocks nor the planned two new blocks is affected by this material, as it has been said in the expozee, the Secretary of State has also spoken about it, and, listening to the opinions of a number of experts in recent years, there is a common view that there is no reason for the government today to make any decision on the sustainable storage of spent fuel. If we look at European examples, we can see that either in the Scandinavian countries or in France, where the first such spent fuel storage storage is planned in the near future, more than 50 years of research have preceded the opening of this container. So, ladies and gentlemen, when some parliamentary parties are talking about important political decisions in the near future regarding the disposal of spent or unused fuel, which we now call fuel in today's professional language, I think this is nothing more than alarm. Looking at the experience and previous research, we are still at the very beginning of the long-term work in Hungary, which will lead us to the point where a proposal can be presented to this House. After all, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget that the Hungarian Parliament has to decide on this, so without the decision of the Parliament it cannot be imagined at all that any decision can be made on the storage of spent fuel elements. I look forward to the research developments relating to the recycling of these fuel elements. After all, if we look at the results of research in the energy field, the extent to which different technologies have accelerated in this area, then I think we can also rightly expect nuclear power to have test results or research results in the near future, for which the fuel elements used to date can be recycled and the energy content that still exists in them can be exploited by all nuclear power plants. Ladies and gentlemen, So I think that in view of the material before us, there is no reason to mention the advance of any implied government decision, nor to bring any ideology imagined by various parliamentary parties into this debate. There is nothing more than what the Honourable Secretary of State has said that we are fulfilling a legal obligation, and in this context let us look at what has happened over the past five years in the field of nuclear energy recovery. [[13.30]] Having said once again that we have no substantive decision or decision-making obligation in this regard, I believe that the adoption of this proposal for a resolution does not entail any risk for Parliament. We support the adoption of this on behalf of the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Well, where do I start? Actually, I understand this suggestion as to why you're here. Obviously, there's a duty here, and it needs to be reviewed every five years. However, if it had come before this House, I would have liked to see a proposal with some plans on what we would like to do with spent fuel, since we know that there is a real risk of managing and exploiting them. By the way, I'd say to Erik Bánki, before he goes to get water, it's possible that Jobbik's energy policy hasn't been studied so much. But believe me, we're not that far apart in this area. There has already been a debate once today about why opposition parties do not think the same thing. Well, we are different parties, and we also think differently in this area, and this will be confirmed by Lóránt László Keresztes' speech. But I'd like to go back to the point where I wanted to see a recovery plan. We see that with the emergence of the fourth generation of fuel, there has not yet been a breakthrough, which may happen in the coming years, and we hope to do something about it here in Hungary, but in the meantime, with the spent fuel. But, in international agreements, we also have an opportunity to bring them back to Russia that has produced them for us. This would obviously be a more costly solution, and I think that is why they chose the possibility of deep geological storage. However, if we are going to do so, it would be good to have a perspective or perspective on how we can make use of them either in the scientific world or in the military. Although this is a special issue, there are other international conventions. But we should have some idea of what areas we want to use this in. I can honestly support the construction of this storage facility, because it is clear that it is necessary in such a situation. But it would be nice to see some long-term vision, and it would be nice if we didn't spend the next five years with the fact that we still have five more years, then we have five more years, we have five more years, and the next thirty years go by without actually doing anything with these fuel, they're just in this temporary or temporary place where we store it, and we'll build this storage unit. In addition, it would be nice to know that there is already a place that they have the idea that this deep geological storage could be built there. And if you have this location, you plan to ask the opinion of the local population or the population of the surrounding settlements about what they would say if such an establishment were to be built. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-19-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-19-104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The use of nuclear energy is necessary and beneficial in compliance with the highest and strongest safety standards. We will immediately disagree with the LMP Group. But on several occasions we have agreed with other opposition parties, including Jobbik. I was talking about such a thing yesterday in the debate, when you are preparing for joint governance, but that is your problem. If nuclear power plants are properly operational, they do not produce carbon dioxide, they are free from harmful emissions, so they do not pollute the environment, they do not play a role in climate change. Nuclear power is clean and there is already a small amount of nuclear fuel that can generate a great deal of electricity, so in Hungary it is currently the cheapest electricity produced in the nuclear power plant. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant accounts for between 40 and 50 percent of domestic electricity production, so it is a key player in Hungary's energy management. At the same time, 15-17 percent of the world's electricity supply is generated by nuclear power plants and 75 percent of the electricity in France comes from nuclear power plants. Since its existence, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has saved more than 400 million tonnes of CO2 emissions, making a significant contribution to climate protection objectives. At the same time, in addition to nuclear energy, it is important for us to use renewable energy sources, as our country has been able to grow in the last thirty years by reducing its CO2 emissions. Only 19 other countries were able to achieve this performance in addition to Hungary. So there is something to be proud of, but there is also a need for further significant steps. The government's programme is to ensure that by 2030 the energy produced in Hungary is 90% carbon-free and that Hungary becomes climate-neutral by 2050. In view of the fact that the number of sunny hours in Hungary in large areas is over 2 thousand hours per year, which is a positive natural habitat, it is almost similar to that of the Mediterranean countries, so it is best to build solar power plants in Hungary. Accordingly, the capacity of solar power plants will be multiplied in 10 years and solar power generation capacity will be in operation by at least 6,000 megawatts by 2030. In the summer of 2020, the Hungarian solar power plants have already provided more than 26 percent of the electricity produced in Hungary in record quantities. Although this is only a temporary value, which was due to the favourable summer weather, it is important to stress that there has never been such an example before that the electricity generated by solar power plants is so high in Hungary's electricity use. At the same time, there is a need for reliable nuclear energy available throughout the year, with the greatest possible use of solar energy. On average, the production of solar panels falls to nearly six times in winter compared to the summer period. The Hungarian Parliament adopted in 2015 a national policy for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste in compliance with and in compliance with European legislation, which should be reviewed every five years, so we reached the first five-year turning point. The national policy adopted in 2015 describes the use of radioactive materials and the current application of nuclear power in Hungary, sets out the principles to be followed and the obligations arising from the Euroatom Directive 2011/70 and is also in line with all the provisions of the Directive. The review of the 2015 national policy was necessary to fulfil the obligation of the nuclear law. Accordingly, the current proposal for a decision, based on the experience of the last five years, contains changes to the legal requirements and terminology, so I call on this House to support the proposal for a decision, like the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Every time we discuss this, we discuss similar rules, in which we talk about the issue of the nuclear landfill in Boda, and every time we hear from my colleague, Erik Bánki, that there is no decision, that is not the decision, and that is not the decision yet. However, everyone knows that there will be a nuclear dump, and everyone knows that they started and evaluate geological data there, and everyone knows that we think about it completely differently. We believe that ten kilometers from downtown Pécs is impossible to land used fuel. We all think that most people in the city of Pécs think that it is not certain that by the time this dump is built, I remember it well, 2062? When they start to use it, Boda will not be part of Pécs if the city of Pécs succeeds. So in each case, my fellow Member sees local policy, basically correctly. One thing you don't see right is what's in the interest of the Baranya people. We don't think that's it. [[13.40]] He always tells me there's no decision, but everyone knows there's gonna be this nuclear dump, and it's not gonna be anywhere else, even if the formal decision is put off for now. We have heard from my fellow Member how essential nuclear energy is. There are some elements in which we agree, since it cannot be replaced overnight, if I remember correctly, 37 percent of the production of electricity in Hungary. But you planted a time bomb on economic policy after all, it's Paks II. construction. We listened to Minister János Süli at the meeting of the Economic Committee a little while ago, where he said that they did not really have much to do with anything. As I understand it, this was his answer when I asked why the Butchers were the ones who were building there and the NER entrepreneurs, always somehow getting close to these big investments. As I understand it, the answer was through multiple strings, but it was the Russian partner who decided on this question. There are two aspects to this. One of the things we often push, when you say that we sold out the country, is this page when you were on the government, and we always say that you took on Russian credit, not a little, but a lot, with interest that the often scolded IMF would have lent you cheaper, we are talking about interest rates of 3.95 and 4.95 per cent in this respect. Not least, if we understand correctly, even decision-making rights have been transferred, so this is almost a matter of sovereignty in this matter. The other question of this investment, Paks II, is that the loan will probably be repaid even when, as far as possible, it will have to be dismantled. So our grandchildren, who will still pay the loan, will face the fact that there is still a payment obligation, but the power plant must be shut down because it will reach its lifetime. One conclusion can be drawn from this: Paks II. investment is certainly not a matter of security of supply. The Paks II. His investment could not have been decided not to ask people about it. That's what we've always been pushing for. It may be the government's position, it may be the party's view that nuclear energy has a role or a role. One thing is certain: this is a very long-term decision, both financially and in terms of natural potential, as well as energy exposure, in which people need to be consulted. We believe that neither the Members of Parliament nor the Government are in such an anointed position to decide on their own. Before reference was made to the 2009 decision, the 2009 decision was a decision in principle, which could have been supported calmly by a referendum initiative or even supported when we initiated it. To back that up again, the Paks II. it is not a question of security of supply because it has not been examined how much, how many years there is to extend the life of the existing blocks at what cost. We therefore think that, without examining all these issues, it is not possible to make a proper decision on these issues, and perhaps it is worth putting them on the table when we go inside and inside a project that, once again, is a time bomb for economic policy. This year was particularly painful. About March, with reason-law, no one disputes, everyone is on the stop button, the government in the first round, of course, because they are the ones with an obligation to act. The country, the economy, had to be stopped, but this investment continued, and additional resources had to be taken away from another place, where appropriate from defence and, where appropriate, from economic defence, so that this investment could continue. We think that if this investment had slipped a lot so far, it could have slipped a year for a reason for once. For the reason that we now need to turn it on people to turn it on pensioners now, we need to use these resources to preserve jobs, not to implement this gigantic plan, and for once could have slipped a year for a reason. Another thought about slipping. Someone has wondered, it would not be the first such investment, that this investment is so slow, that the technology itself could become obsolete, if necessary. It's a calmly asked question. There are other investments in Hungary. The question that can be raised is that technologies that are designed there can become obsolete. I understood what the Minister, János Süli, said on the Committee on Economic Affairs, and I am sure that it was not an accident to tell him how many thousands of pages and even tens of thousands of pages of documentation were put down and how many languages they put down, but, I imagine, this was not revealed the day before yesterday. That the Russians will plan in Russian, that the language of the project is Hungarian, and we are Hungarians. I'm sure it wasn't revealed yesterday that the Russians speak Russian, and we speak Hungarian, and there is a common language, English. I am sure that the previous slippages can, of course, be held responsible for the Secretary of State of Aszodi and he could be replaced, but I do not see that this project has since started as a rocket and goes on. So I think that putting all these doubts side by side, slipping, devalued technology, and, as an alternative, extending the duration of Paks' existing blocks, we should all put them side by side if we want to talk about them uniformly. These are our critical comments. I will also say that my fellow Member is here, because I referred to him as having not been in the House at the time. We know there's still no decision on the Boda nuclear site, we know the government hasn't defined it, but everyone knows it's gonna be there. We will never support this, we will not support the fact that nuclear waste is stored ten kilometres from downtown Pécs, even if it has never been formally decided before, because it is politically risky. I understand that, but virtually everyone knows that there are two areas in Hungary that are suitable for this, one of which has been selected from the heart of Pécs, next to the area of the village of Boda, just ten kilometres from Széchenyi Square in Pécs, and not elsewhere. This is very important. I think that even if the government is not committed at the level of a resolution, things are going in the same direction. I think the best way to look each other in the eye is to look the facts in the eye, not just the government decisions described. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2020-11-19-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-108	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, It seems to me that life makes it possible for the representatives of Baranya, who seem to know the situation and the circumstances, to express their views on what the government really wants to do in this self-justifying draft resolution. Taking it out every five years and proving something like this that we're definitely doing it right doesn't necessarily mean that you're right. Especially when they're trying to do it in the middle of an epidemic. I think there is a reason why, too, when it comes to deciding on a national policy for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, there must be something more important in these days and weeks that needs to be dealt with. Especially because they did not prepare for the second wave, neither schools nor health care, and we are at the point that there are now far more than 150,000 infected in the country. Three thousand people, three thousand Hungarians died from the virus, and our hospitals are slowly no longer able to treat a new patient, and you consider this to be the most important. [[13.50]] I think that if this is a five-year turning point and such a stubborn insistence that we have to do this now, I think this is not the case at all, especially if it is brought here unprepared so that it does not have the appropriate impact assessments to evaluate it. Therefore, I cannot accept this and join in what my fellow Member has said, that if you want to build a nuclear depot 10 kilometres from downtown Pécs, you should not do that. Instead, at this moment, in these days, these months, you should be concerned with people, because what they think is a good influence on the economy or a good influence on the economy in the coming months, I do not believe. I think that neither do you, and that's why I think it's such a substitute act, and suddenly in fear, I can also say that as panic control, as a substitute act, they're trying to sell it here at this hour, while this debate is taking place. Either way, whatever purpose they've come to divert attention or flee from something else, we should talk instead. I think this is real. Even because the responsibility of the Secretary of State has contributed to the possibility of preparing the economy for the second wave. There should have been a much wider focus on not firing people, and not just suffering in these days, because otherwise there is no internal market where orders would appear, and the state is not doing anything about it. Therefore, don't be surprised if sooner or later people will shout very loudly, demand it, demand it now, actually hear it, hear that they are trying to protect their health, their lives by launching free mass testing. If they had already done so, we would not be so vulnerable from the economic side, and this could have done much if they had not taken such panic-like measures that, yes, the economy would suffer much less. Let me not say all this, that for this test that could have been carried out during this period, with this in mind, health workers, social institutions, schools, teachers, teachers, they should have been given this opportunity, but you do not comply with these rules in this way. It's very, very unfortunate, and I think it's causing extreme damage. We've been telling you this for a long time now, but it's like you're completely deaf. I understand that, in the midst of panic management, there will be no time to deal with the extension of the job search support, even though this would be a suitable means of spending on someone else, it would be a suitable tool to extend the job search support from 3 months to 6 months, but mostly for 9 months. He's been going all over Europe longer than we have. With the extra unemployment over 150,000 and at least 100,000 people out of care, there are a lot of people here. There are more than half a million unemployed who are in a very, very big problem, and they need to think about how they put food on the table, what will happen in the Christmas season, because everywhere they talk about more difficult days and weeks coming. The government doesn't help, doesn't do everything it can to change this situation. I have to say, in the meantime, you have the source at your disposal. All the resources provided by the European Union are at your disposal to mention the EUR 506 million that the Minister of Finance has expressly signed and subscribed to with his contract and accepted this money. It is 180,000 million forints that have arrived in Hungary. Instead of talking about it, we are discussing in Parliament how this can best be used in addition to the resources that are available as domestic resources now and even in the near future, instead of dealing with people, they are coming here with a self-justifying draft resolution. There's also the neglect of the state's wage supplement. They do not care about pensioners, or if they consider it as an occupation that it is best for pensioners in Pécs to build the landfill 10 kilometers from the city centre, even if no one wants to do so and goes on this route, do not wonder if they will not continue to support and love what you are doing in that city. I trust that, therefore, you will consider and redesign this, and I would say that the GPS will be restarted and that the opinions of the well-known Members who have spoken in succession, who are regionally involved, will be taken into account and, accordingly, with this draft decision, would rather be withdrawn than asked to support this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-19-109	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, Mr Group Leader. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-110	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a very important question ahead of us. I also take advantage of the opportunity many times, which I think it is important that, when we talk about a specific matter, we try to highlight the importance of it in a slightly broader framework, and I would like to speak specifically about the subject in this case. By the way, Paks II has been talked about by a number of people and the positives of nuclear power. My fellow Members, I do not wish to go into this debate right now, because in itself I believe that this is a very, very important issue. All I can say, however, and this is closely related to this issue, is that nuclear energy is neither green nor cheap, nor safe. That it is not green and I am sorry that Congressman Nacsa is not here right now, but perhaps he is watching or hearing from behind one of the columns, perhaps we can best support it as a person living in Pécs and Baranya. Unfortunately, Pécs and Baranya are affected by the two dirty ends of nuclear technology, on the one hand, by uranium mining and, on the other hand, by the possible location of the disposal of high-activity nuclear waste, there is the Bodai Claystone Formation where research is conducted. I am deeply sorry that you said, too, that Mr Erik Bánki and Secretary of State Kaderjak, that there is, in fact, a five-year obligation to review this proposal for a resolution, but there is no other reason for it. I would like to confirm in my speech that there are indeed many reasons for this question, so that we do not adopt this proposal for a decision in this form, but incorporate certain aspects into it. I am indeed a locally concerned Member, a Member who has been fighting on this issue for seven years, and the city of Pécs, with the right of the county, has practically lined up behind his opinion, with a very clear decision, and many small towns and small settlements who have not listened to the question have already indicated that they are very clearly committed not to such an object. Nevertheless, or together with this, I would really like to deal constructively with this issue, and I would like us to be able to amend this proposal for a resolution in accordance with the interests of the nation so that it is also appropriate for the inhabitants of the region now concerned. I see this opportunity, and I would like to put it this way. Well, let's see what the problem is. We confirm that nuclear power is neither cheap nor green. I can tell you that nuclear energy has been used in many countries of the world for a very, very long time, including in Hungary. It is perfectly clear and is not disputed by the LMP that the country that uses nuclear energy uses nuclear technology has a responsibility to ensure the final disposal of spent fuel and high-activity nuclear other waste and radioactive waste. [[14.00]] In fact, when these certain nuclear power plants are shut down, it will be necessary to ensure that they are dismantled at present and at enlargement, if Paks II is built. This is a specific task. So this issue, and I would like to draw the attention of all my fellow Members, must be separated from Mr Paks II. Since the existing and now Pakson blocks, the installation of thousands of heating elements in the temporary storage of spent fuel, is also a task, regardless of Paks II. So this is a specific problem. I can tell you that nowhere in the world this question has been resolved. Nuclear energy is used in many countries, but no permanent storage has been opened where high - activity radioactive waste could have been disposed of. We know of certain examples from the state of Nevada, where in the Yucca Mountains, by the way, in a rather ignominious way, an Indian burial site was launched and this particular nuclear cemetery was built. I'm not saying the amount, astronomical amount, believe me that the astronomical amount and then the city of Las Vegas, 130 kilometres away, prevented this because of precisely social and economic conditions, so it wasn't the technical and geological aspects that had to be taken into account here. And other locations, then Scandinavian locations. The problem here is that these objects are spent fuel, other high-activity waste that, we can say, are dangerous for about 200,000 years, must be removed for 200,000 years, and the possibility of getting close to people must also be excluded. Now, no one has been able to solve this, such an object, such a nuclear cemetery has never been built anywhere in the world, only for the small and medium-activity, right, in Bátaapáti, among other things in Hungary. Otherwise, we are faced with this problem in Hungary, so the issue of location selection, financing and technology itself, how and in what rock can be protected, packaged and closed, we are struggling with this, and the question of funding is given. It is estimated that the cost of the disposal of spent fuel and nuclear waste is estimated at HUF 1600 billion, and the cost of decommissioning and other high-activity waste is estimated. Now, when you say how cheap nuclear power is, these amounts are never taken into account, and that's a huge mistake. So these amounts, my fellow Member, are not taken into account, and I add that the funding has not been resolved either. This is the job that the Central Nuclear Financial Fund should finance, where a fraction of it is available. Here is a very, very important issue, and I would like to provoke a debate with Mr Erik Bánki or State Secretary that a decision has been made or has not been decided, and here I am in a debate with my fellow opposition Members: a decision has been taken. Forints 10 billion have already been spent on this project. In the spring of 2019 there was a public hearing in Bodan, when the next stage of this project was its licensing station. I asked the local employees of the National Atomic Energy Office how much money was spent on this project; not in present value, but in absolute value, 10 billion HUF has already been spent on this. How did this project develop? Sometime in the early nineties, this work started, and experts ranked the country on the basis of the basic geological and technical properties. This includes about 15-20 different rock formations, and it was thought that, based on these geological and technical properties, the Bodai Claystone Formation was the best, and then the research began slowly, because it was necessary to develop this small and medium-activity container, which was completed in Bátaapáti. The capacity of the competent company was obviously tied up by these works, so the high-activity project was launched in 2013. So in this respect, this is a relatively young project, and indeed, as my fellow Members have mentioned, we are still at the beginning of this project. But the problem is that international experience was not taken into account then either, that it is not enough to examine technical and geological factors, and thus to say for an area that it is a potential research site, but that economic and social conditions must also be examined. All international experience, by the way, the aforementioned experience of the State of Nevada, shows that a person who ignores people is making a mistake, and all kinds of international conventions and this resolution also states that there is white and black, that social and economic factors must be taken into account. It must be taken into account, Mr Secretary of State and honourable Members, that nowhere in the world near such a metropolitan agglomeration, they do not want to build a deep geological reservoir for the final disposal of high-activity nuclear waste. Is it a decision or not? Here I hold in my hand a document reviewing Parliament's resolution five years ago, with virtually a few of these corrections, unchanged. This document contains the fact that there will be a deep geological storage facility in Hungary, following the decision of the Parliament. It has not yet been decided whether or not to recycle or not to recycle the fuel or not. It will be a deep geological storage, because if there is recycling, there will be extremely dangerous, high-activity waste and they will also have to be placed. So: the decision has been made, Mr Bánki, that there will be a storage facility for deep geology, and that is why, by the way, 10 billion forints have already been spent before, because this preparatory work has started. This material also includes the fact that the research is carried out on a single site, the Bodai Material Stone Formation. So in this document it was decided that there will be storage, the preparatory project started to research the site, and it is only today in Hungary with the Bodai... [[Erik Bánki intervenes.]] Well, that's what happens, Congressman. [[Erik Bánki: For now! For now.]] For now, it's happening in Bodai Claystone Formation. Now, the importance of information. Such an information association with the involvement of some small settlements was set up for this purpose. These small settlements now do not want to take the work in this direction by RHK Kft. They receive considerable support in return for their cooperation, i.e. substantial support in relation to the small town budget, so to speak, to participate in this information work. I can tell you that this information circle did not include the city of Pécs, they did not include the town of Szabadszentkirály, the village of Bicsérd, Pellerd. So it's amazing that there was an association established north of Route 6, but the largest city in Transdanubia was left out of it, and the city of Szentlőrinc was also excluded from this information association. Therefore, they did not meet this requirement either. The problem is, in particular, my fellow Members, and Member Erik Bánki, Secretary of State Kaderjak, said that we are talking about solving a task here. The solution to the problem is to have a storage space suitable for high-activity waste. They all acknowledged that this is a long-term project, decades, maybe 30, maybe 40, maybe 50 years of project. It costs a lot of money, a lot of money, a lot of time, and both money and time are resources. So far, seven years, if we don't count the previous period, have left this period on the basis of a poorly-founded project. So what do they expect now? You spend another 10 or 20 years, spend a lot of money, billions of forints for research, and then spend 30 years asking the local people that they want to do this in such an unprecedented way near a big city, and they say, "Yeah, right?" And you knew this, let's say you already knew in 2019, the Director General of the National Atomic Energy Office in 2019 knew that this was a problem. Here this area, regardless of the technical and geological characteristics, risks, is not suitable for society. And here is the key to the solution: therefore, the decision has been made, honourable Member, and the responsible political decision should be taken here, taking into account international examples of countries where research is carried out on 8-10 sites from a technical and geological point of view, and alternative research sites should also be designated. In English: re-ranking potentially technically suitable locations based on social and economic conditions, and thus giving the professionals instructions to start research from available sources at an alternative location. This is the only responsible solution, and we see many international examples of this, and we can see from international experience that this is the only way it will work. Therefore, despite the population, such a project cannot be implemented. You are not arguing with me, Congressman Erik Bánki, but with your Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán. Orbán came to Pécs in 2015 and in 2015 he said very clearly that such a nuclear facility cannot be built without the consent of the people in Pécs and its region. What did Prime Minister say? The right of the Pécs to participate in this decision is the right of the Sanctuaries, the Bodas, everyone. According to the Prime Minister, the Pécs have the right to decide on this. [[Erik Bánki: We think so too!]] , from the other side it was not included in the information association, it was not included as a client, and in the nuclear law the powers were changed to a few hundred metres, so Pécs, Szabadszentkirály and the others, and the other areas concerned, are not legally involved. So you cynically say that, of course, you have the right to decide, you have the right to decide as Pécsi and then to exclude the possibility of amending the legislation. This is amazing, but this is not the interesting thing right now, because that is not the most important, of course, it is important, but it is because you said, Prime Minister, that the Pécs have the right to decide, so either now or two years ago, or 15 years from now, that this project can be stopped with the words of the Pécs. Honourable Congressman, Dear Secretary of State, And the Pécs said that they did not want this, so from now on I am convinced that this is no longer just a political responsibility, that this clear situation will not be incorporated responsibly into this document. By the way, experts even say that they are implementing the political decision. If there is a decision, or if they are instructed to search alternative locations, they will do so. So I say and say that I am constructive, because this does not affect this task in any way, it could simply be corrected responsibly. [[14.10]] It should be included in this document to re-assess potential areas based on social and economic conditions, prioritise and establish a correction to look for alternative research sites, look again at international examples and see where rocks are suitable in the potential areas of the country, and when we see where the suitability of rocks cannot otherwise be ruled out, then these decisions can indeed be taken. I also support the fact that this information is in the hands of the authorities. When Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made this promise in 2015 in Pécs, then Pécs's then mayor, Zsolt Páva, repeated that it was true, they would ask the Pécsians, but a research phase until 2018 will be completed, and then it will be done. They did not ask the Pécsians, and in 2019 the company launched the authorisation procedure for the site search permit, and this was the public hearing in Bodan. At that time, I have formulated many questions and I would like to quote the speech by Gyula Fichtinger, Director General of the OAH at that time. In any case, this problem, which we are going around, is not unknown. We have indicated this problem as a problem to the right decision-makers, given that it is an extremely important issue, we will repeat this call for attention. So those who can make a substantive decision on this issue are already familiar with this problem, but in the near future, that is next week, we will be explaining that there have been serious concerns about the research of the Boda storage site, and, let us say, objections have been raised on behalf of the residents of Pécs or the city of Pécs. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And despite that, they've issued a search warrant for the site. So the problem is given, the problem is known to you as State Secretarys of the affected area, Members of Parliament, we all know it. The only responsible decision is to fulfil the obligations that we have recognised; we need to re-rank the areas, to take into account the decision of the city with the right of Pécs County, which said last autumn that it does not want this storage unit, and thus correcting this project with a viable scenario, we can finally get there in a few decades to actually fulfill the obligation that we have to perform in order to build an underground storage facility on a secure site. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2020-11-19-111	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Before changing the decision on the management of nuclear waste, I would like to briefly describe the position of the Dialogue on nuclear energy in general. There are some misconceptions, even false news generated knowingly, about the government's fundamental assessment of nuclear power. First of all, I would like to eliminate these. The first is such an important false statement that nuclear power would be cheap. On the contrary, nuclear power production is currently the most expensive. The cheapest is electricity produced in solar and wind power plants. Nuclear power is cheap once the power plant has been built as in Paks I, and the investment costs are not counted, but when they talk about Paks II and they talk about the expansion of the nuclear power plant, it is clear that it is the most expensive form of energy production, including the cost of installation. So let's forget about that, and let's really give this question an act from an economic point of view. The second important claim is that nuclear energy would be climate neutral so as not to emit carbon dioxide. On the contrary, if we look again at its entire life span, the whole cycle, the life cycle of the construction, operation and demolition of a nuclear power plant, then it will certainly emit more carbon dioxide per megawatt produced than a gas plant. So even gas plants are more environmentally friendly, climate-friendly than the construction of nuclear power plants, so from this point of view, I ask that we forget this story, and if we really want a climate-neutral Hungary, let us note that this is not the way to build new nuclear power plants. For the third time, it is not true that nuclear energy is safe. Nuclear power is extremely dangerous. Think of Mayak, Three Mile Island, Chernobyl or Fukushima. There were major disasters due to the peaceful use of nuclear power, and we did not even talk about war use at the time. So nuclear energy is the most dangerous source of energy that can only be imagined, and it is particularly serious when it comes to the fact that it remains waste, radioactive material that this resolution is about, which will never cease to be harmful to health. In Hungary, the social discussion is about where to set up a permanent nuclear cemetery for high-activity, therefore the most dangerous radioactive waste in Hungary for all eternity. I'll tell you where: nowhere. It is a complete nonsense that, in a hundred thousand years' time, they will continue to produce radioactive waste next to a large city in a densely populated country, 10 kilometers away from Pécs, but anywhere in the country. It is not by accident that the special connection between Hungary and Russia in the use of nuclear power over the past decades is partly based on the use of Russian technology and the purchase of Russian fuel, but also on the receipt and handling of radioactive waste by the Russians. This cooperation should be extended to include the permanent treatment and disposal of these very dangerous radioactive waste in the territory of Russia, where millions of square kilometres are uninhabited, sites that are in no way harmful to human life and health have been given to place these waste. Set up nuclear sites there that stand the test of the hundred thousand years ahead, and not the final nuclear cemetery in Hungary. All in all, we must say that the use of nuclear energy is not desirable for Hungary at all, not a good alternative, not an attractive option at all. We do not say in the Dialogue, and we, the Greens, are not saying that Paks I. should be stopped immediately, obviously there would be an insurmountable impact on energy, economically and socially, but we say that when the working time for the Paks I reactors expires, we should stop using nuclear power and its production in Hungary. We've got nearly 20 years. A full energy revolution can be completed in nearly 20 years. If the government is really so committed, if it's really telling us to be climate neutral by 2050, then let's see how we can get there. The politician of the Dialogue, Benedek Jávor, has recently prepared the energy travel plan for Green Hungary, which, supported by step by step, numbers, data and expert analysis, shows how Hungary can have a climate-neutral energy policy by 2050 so that energy consumption can be reduced in such a way that, unfortunately, there is little mention in government circles when it comes to energy policy, so that there is simply no need for electricity produced in the nuclear power plant. We can do this, with lower consumption and the use of renewable energies, we can create a completely climate-friendly energy policy and an energy mix in Hungary. In addition, it is more economically advantageous and its safety risks are equal to zero; unlike this extremely dangerous nuclear story and the nuclear waste we are talking about now. Then I would like to turn to this proposal for a decision. We know that the amendment to the nuclear waste management decision is justified by the mandatory review of the national strategy every five years and by the harmonisation of EU legislation. However, there is no reason why the majority of governments have to produce a decision text of lower quality, which is becoming less and less secure at all times. That's what's happened now, most of all, what's left out of the version that's now in force. For example, the new version does not include the passage whereby, I quote:, in order to ensure safety, the possibilities and limitations of human performance must be taken into account throughout the lifetime of nuclear installations. You are obviously aware that ignoring the human factor has led to the most serious nuclear accidents in the world, and also in Hungary, Pakson, in 2003. The human factor cannot be ignored, and I do not understand why it is good to remove the reference to human error from the text. Such a failure in handling a nuclear power plant or nuclear waste can be fatal. [[14.20]] It is also out of the text that I quote the decisions on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste: the decision-making should be made with an open mind. With this, let us say, the majority of governments are really simply adapting the strategy or the decision to the Fidesz government's practice, but I do not think that the suba decision on nuclear energy use and nuclear waste on such issues would generally serve the safety of the Hungarian population. The extent to which it is not, you are an example of it in the proposal for a resolution when you are smuggling into the text the area already chosen by the government for the final disposal of high-activity radioactive waste, without consulting the population of Pécs, 10 kilometres from the border of the surrounding settlements, such as the research zone. Therefore, this proposal for a resolution cannot be voted in favour, we will not vote in favour, and we are also asking you to consider your position, to withdraw the proposal, to rewrite it, and to present at least a proposal to Parliament that increases and does not reduce the safety of nuclear energy use. As you say these days, I can only tell you: if you can't help me, at least don't hurt me. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-113	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki. Here you are, Congressman, Fidesz Group, within a two-minute timeframe.
u2020-11-19-114	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to two speeches, one of the speeches made by Mr László Szakács, who literally said that we had taken on an expensive Russian loan and sold out the country, and that we also made an economic policy decision in Paks II. It's about investment, which is a time bomb. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we did not sell the country, but they did. Thus, the MSZP government, in Gyula Horn's time, who sold all the major energy companies, on the condition that, even in that economic situation, the State had a guaranteed return of 8 per cent on the otherwise profitable business lines sold for pennies. So you're on the other side of the horse, Your Honour. He was talking about expensive Russian credit. Minister Süli has just said that the credit agreement was concluded under conditions such as good conditions and good conditions in the financial markets at the time, which have obviously changed since then, with pre-reimbursement options and, moreover, a cost-free early repayment option, with which the Hungarian government has lived in the last year. If we can redeem it with a cheaper loan, and we can redeem it with a much cheaper loan today, we have the opportunity and we have done so. The Minister also said that at his hearing. And by being a time bomb in the economic policy sense, I absolutely disagree, but not only do I disagree, the whole European Commission does not agree with this, because the European Commission itself said after a long examination that this is an investment that is actually economically profitable, which is why we have been allowed to do it at all. And to Lóránt László Keresztes I would just like to reply that neither the Prime Minister's position nor our position has changed: Bodan will only be a dumper if the population of Pécs, the population of the affected settlements, and the Hungarian Parliament contribute. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-115	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor in a two-minute timeframe to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP Group.
u2020-11-19-116	Thank you very much. Congressman Bence Tordai referred here to Mr Benedek Jávor as an expert on this issue. Remember, he was the one who told us about the coronal virus, that we were facing a relatively inexpensive, harmless epidemic. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Gergely Christmas sent him far away for a reason, or not by chance, Gergely Christmas does not sacrifice to control the epidemic, because Jávor Benedek said it was relatively cheap. But Paks II. Benedek Jávor also took the alarming, bluffing position years ago. After all, despite the systematic minework in Brussels, as Congressman Erik Bánki said, a lengthy Commission investigation in Brussels found that the Paks II study had been carried out. The project improves Hungary's security of supply, the studies have also confirmed its contribution to climate protection objectives, and the Commission has also confirmed that the new blocks will be economically recovered. This has been described by the European Commission, despite all the minework of Benedek Jávor. So I ask you, too, and everyone who continues to scare and bluff in this case, to look at the documents rather than to look at the European Commission's investigation, not to believe a man who considered the coronal virus a relatively harmless epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-117	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group.
u2020-11-19-118	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a quick rejoinder to Congressman Erik Bánki and also to Mr Nacsa. You gave this project to the Russians without a proposal, or you referred to the fact that only the Russians could carry out the Paks expansion project. Then it turned out that the Russians weren't prepared for this, and the project suffered serious delays, because the Russians simply couldn't do anything with this task, they delayed.In 2018, when Minister Süli was heard, I asked when the complete planning documentation was being submitted, he said then that he had no idea or even said that the Russians were studying the Hungarian technical environment. This year, this huge documentation has been submitted many years late. My question to Congressman Erik Bánki, if Congressman Szakács allows you to pay attention to the government's claim to Rosatom, we will impose a penalty on the Russians; we are talking about a huge multimillion-dollar project, how much will this delay cost the Russians? It is very interesting, however, that they refer to the European Commission. They are always fighting such a so-called freedom fight against the European Commission, the European Union, but at a time when they can agree, let us say, such exchanges, I do not know what other interpretations, and then the European Commission is a reference for you to say that the European Commission has contributed. I believe it, but I do not agree with the Paks expansion, and I do not agree that the Paks expansion is in line with the Hungarian national interests. It's not good enough. You confirm that Pécs and Baranya will not be a nuclear cemetery without the decision or approval of the people there. We can also agree that a decision has already been made, research work is being done. This will take decades. How many billion forints and how many decades do you want to wait with this question? And who will be responsible for the billions spent so far, for spending it? Who will take responsibility for this when you know exactly that Pécs doesn't want this, Pécs County City has said that he doesn't want that. Why do they expect decades, why spend billions more, and why do they take the time to start a viable project now with a redesign? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked you to speak because I asked you to speak. The Minister also said that in addition to a certain part of this loan that could be redeemed, it is now possible to do so. That wasn't an option when it was recorded, and you know it, and I know it. No one knew there would be such an opportunity. The other thing you said, Congressman, was that Paks II was examined by the Commission and considered it a profitable investment. I'm sure that's true, but it's because they didn't add another alternative that could make it even easier. It has been examined, Mr President, that the extension of the existing blocks would be cheaper and would be equally accessible to the security of energy supply, or that only this one project has been submitted to Brussels? These were the essence of my questions. The other is whether or not the country was sold out. Look, what else do you decide here? The Russians are there, Pakson, and by the end it will be 5000 billion, with interest, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line will be 1000 billion. German multinationals dictate the Hungarian labour market any way they want. These are no longer economic policy issues, these are sovereignty issues. The government that is supposed to be most important is committed to this, not least financially, and with countries that are not specifically included in the federal system in which Hungary belongs and where we want it to be, this is the European Union [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Germany?]] And NATO. The Russians and the Chinese, just so my fellow Member Nacha understands, they are the ones I think of, and the Germans are members of the European Union, and you know it, but don't ask stupid questions. Therefore, I think that you are, after all, selling out Hungarian sovereignty and yet some level of Hungarian economic operators. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They've been busy lately. Thank you very much for your attention. [[14.30]]
u2020-11-19-121	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Balczó, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for the floor in a normal time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-122	Mr President, thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to state that, and I hope that, in the reply of the Secretary of State, you will not object to the diverging opinions within the so-called opposition bloc, which has occurred in the previous case. I think it should be noted that there is no opposition bloc; cooperation may take place. I don't want to recall yesterday's debate on the election law. Therefore, it is natural that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has a different position, which I represent, adding that from an individual point of view, I may be even more strongly represented, but what I say is in line with our perception. Let me begin with Bence Tordai's speech. I can honestly say that I am always impressed by those who speak with conviction in various and professional matters. He's a committed green politician. Only when you're talking so strongly about misconceptions, let me read some data on this. It is said many times that nuclear energy is indeed pure energy from a good point of view of specific emissions, because I now say to Lóránt Keresztes that, of course, it is not green energy, but it is clean; otherwise, he is the one who was largely on the agenda, and in many respects it is possible to agree with him, his comment was professional. The World Energy Council has a set of data to check how many energy sources over their entire life cycle and, in particular, their direct emissions. I'm quoting the whole lifeline. The unit is a CO2 tonne per gigawatt. Obviously, the largest is lignite: 1060-1370; coal: 800-100; even natural gas is 400-500 CO2 tonnes/gigawatth, and we begin to measure clean energies. With solar energy thus used, 100 tonnes of CO2 tonnes per gigawatt; wind energy 20; nuclear energy 40 for the entire life cycle! So a misconception, honourable Member, was intended to disperse, but it does not correspond to reality. The other question I can ask others is that I would like there not to be a nuclear energy source in Hungary; there would not be a nuclear power plant. The sun, the wind; that's how we can work it out. Well, I expect those of you who say that by 2040, we'll have everything out of here. Only a very simple table is not for built-in capacity, but for one year energy consumption, not the specific number, percentage of the percentage of imports. Here, let us take into account the national strategic importance at present, 30 percent, not in the built-in power of solar energy, which it can produce in a year, the wind; and they will inevitably have to answer the question of what else to do and what else to do. I must say that Paks is therefore an energy security issue for Hungary. Because when we talk about Paks enlargement; I don't like that expression because it's not really about enlargement. In fact, we are talking about maintaining our nuclear capacity after 2035. If we were to talk about Paks I's lifetime extension, this lifetime extension has already taken place in a serious period of time. I can't bring you here now, in particular, from the expert opinion I have heard, says that it is not technically impossible, but precisely what we have to consider, from the point of view of operational safety, that a further extension is no longer possible. So Congressman Cook tried to bypass the question I asked first by not having to be Paks II, because Paks I. So he felt that he couldn't be only green energy, unfortunately we're not as good with water energy as Austria, where 60 percent of the production is produced by a hydroelectric power plant. So we are not talking about an incredible commitment to nuclear energy, we are talking about this reality. By the way, they say it's strong people who can change their minds. I refer the MSZP here, because in 2010, as a Member of the European Parliament, I took part in a visit and consultation with the Socialist President of the Economic Commission, where János Süli was present as a technical director, it was found that the MSZP fully supports the Paks II expansion. Edit Herczog was at the forefront of this in the entire Parliament, but at the same time András Gyürk said that, well, we will have to examine this in order that it is good or not good. I kind of feel that when someone is on the government and enforces a resolution made by 96 percent in 2009, the opposition is against Paks because it can be attacked. It can attack the people very simply with its danger, and examples can be raised that they believe that the sun and the wind would be enough. The other is cheap or not cheap? At present, the cost price is 12 HUF/kilovatto. If we look at ratios, as I understand it, the domestic electricity price is currently about HUF 36 per kilowatt. Now, I can only name a person who I asked, given the current price level for Paks II, how much of all expenditure will, of course, be charged. Expected for 18-19 forints/kilowatto. Let us add that the payment needed for the future decommissioning will continue to take place in the Nuclear Fund. So this, in this sense, corresponds to expensive energy, I think that again is not correct. The suggestion made by Mr Cook was that Paks had not contributed to this emergency when everyone had to play their part in the fight against Covid-19, Paks was a taboo! Then I'll give you the data; I'll tell you where I got it. Did I happen to find a statement from Loránt the Crusader on Alpha News who said they'd take 37 billion forints from Paks? He added in parentheses: then it seems that there is no need? Then Paks got 15 billion back, so I'm just saying to someone who says why we spend on such a wasteful project in such an emergency, the balance is currently: the Paks project is trying to support this difficult situation with a reduction of HUF 22 billion. [[László László Keresztes intervenes.]] Let me add that Jobbik separates the fact that, in all the way in which this contract has been concluded, in all the cases in which it is possible to see whether the government is using only 40 percent of the investment, or whether it is again intended to provide a certain circle of income, we agree with these criticisms. As early as spring 2014, I presented a proposal with my fellow Member, which I may repeat, which was about establishing a committee of inquiry, not a subcommittee, in view of the importance of Paks, to examine the concrete steps of this investment, and I will continue to maintain it. [[14.40]] But this is a separate question, and it does not answer that on this basis there is no need for nuclear capacity in Hungary after 2035. A few more words about what is often rather misleading when we talk about how Germany, for example, is an example to follow; how Germany is committed to green energy. Then I'm going to give you specific data from August 2018. First, I'm talking about how much undercover power is. To the extent possible, we should know that the installed power plant power plant in Hungary is about 9,000 megawatts. The wind power plant was 59 thousand megawatts in Germany, the solar power plant was 44,000 megawatts, so it was well over 100,000 megawatts, and compared to all 44,000 separately. It has been able to produce less electricity for Germany than nuclear power plants in decline. Germany's gonna take it down, how are you gonna handle it? Coal power plant. The brown coal is the highest figure in 1109 produced power to the terawattor (sic!) The second place is black coal. So what do we consider commitment now? That we're building huge capacities, but instead of the questioned, clean nuclear power plant, we come with a coal power plant? Or where the biggest imports come from? From France. What power plants? [[Erik Bánki: From nuclear power plants.]] It's coming from nuclear power plants. And here, gas energy can also be part of a relatively lower emission to function as a balancing power plant, where appropriate. By the way, compared to 2009, when this decision was adopted, there were basically two things that did not change: the proper level of storage of green energy and weather-dependent energies has not been resolved. That is one of the fundamental questions. The other is that a new type of energy didn't work out, and we'd really like the fusion power plants to be created, but we need to spend all the money that's possible for research. But that's what we're dealing with right now. That's what I'd say about the names, but now I can't find four scientists, professors, famous for their environmental commitment in the United States. In 2014, they published a paper entitled Nuclear Energy as Planet Savings and said that the future they want is green energy, solar, wind or new energy, but they had to take note of what caused great shock in the circle where they have worked so far, that at present, if we want to save the planet, the incredible negative consequences of climate change, we cannot give up nuclear energy. Not because we like it so much, not because we're in love with it, but because that's the reality right now. So I really do, when I say that I respect those who are fully committed to renewable energies, to green energy, who say that they see a great future here... yes, indeed, the residential solar panels, solar panels, if they can be connected to the network, if they can be connected, so, of course, there are instruments, I consider that wind energy capacity compared to the system could be more than it could be compared to the whole built-in, but this does not give me the answer if the existing nuclear capacity in Hungary ceases to exist, then what else can replace it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-19-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes in a normal time frame. And I will ask Congressman Bence Tordai if he will continue his two-minute speech. Or the normal time frame? [[Bence of Turda: No. The first one.]] Okay, thank you very much, all right. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-19-124	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Allow me, Congressman Balczó, to express a criticism to you. I have deep respect for you, Mr President, and you always speak very consistently to the item on the agenda that is just ahead of us in Parliament, and you always draw the attention of your fellow Members to this. And now you're a 15-minute, professionally very fair [[on the sign of Zoltán Balczó:]] I understand this and made a statement following a clear position, but I did not recognise your position on this proposal; I did not know your position about the fact that the people of Pécs and Baranya did not take into account the very clearly stated demand of the inhabitants of Pécs and Baranya; and I did not know anything about what Jobbik, say, Mr Nunkovich, would do with the disposal of high-activity nuclear waste, the disposal of spent fuel. Honourable Member, and I say this to all of us here in Parliament's Chamber, at the moment, if I have looked at good data, 7957 spent fuel will be waiting for its fate in the temporary storage of spent tapes. What would Jobbik do with this question? What would the Government of Hungary do? I think this is a very important question. And I would very much like to discuss the use of nuclear power, yes, indeed, Mr Szakács has deviated from the subject, but I will not deviate from the subject in general on economic matters, about the circumstances under which the treaty was concluded; I still look forward to the answer that the Hungarian State has a penalty against Roszat because of the many years of delay. And I would also very much like to continue to debate if we spent, say, 4,000 billion forints or more on nuclear energy, then the green future that can be based on renewable energy sources will be guaranteed, not spending the resources from which this technology could be made viable. And I'm also interested in not only the government, but also, say, Jobbik's view of what they think about the government's regulatory environment that makes it impossible for renewables to spread, making the orbit virtually for nuclear energy. For example, according to the current regulations, Mr Secretary of State, a wind farm could not be built within 8 kilometres of Pécs, and a nuclear cemetery could be built. Is this a normal procedure? So that a wind farm cannot be built next to Pécs, a nuclear cemetery can be built next to Pécs, what do you think of this, Mr Balczó? Now, I'd like to stay on the subject and talk about the problem of spent fuel management. However, I would like to point out that this is not only a problem in Hungary, not only in Europe, but throughout the world. I would also like the opinion of my fellow Members and of the Secretary of State on this. Several examples of Sweden, who may be the most advanced in research, may not be sure, but in 2018, the environmental court in Sweden abolished the building permit for a high-activity storage facility because it found that storage of these extremely dangerous materials could not be guaranteed for thousands of years, but even hundreds of years. And I would like to give another positive example, also from 2018. At a distance similar to the city of Košice to Pécs, they wanted to launch research into the site of a nuclear cemetery, and there the local political life was united, and together they stated in a resolution that they would not contribute to this. So in the city of Košice, regardless of who is a member of the political party, they clearly stood up for the interests of the people there and rejected this project. But back to the original questions after the reactions, I would like to take up Parliament's time in just a few minutes, because I did not have time to ask all the questions in my first speech. Such a paragraph can be found in this document that the plans for the four operating blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant are to be drawn up in the medium and long term plans and the national programme taking into account the extended operating time and the open fuel cycle. It is possible to revise these plans, which is also justified by the assessment of the nuclear fuel cycle closure option for the new nuclear power plant blocks. So this is the national programme on which Mr Erik Bánki also said that there was no reason to update it, only such a five-year routine procedure, does this national programme not address the issue of the final disposal of high-activity waste and spent fuel for the Paks expansion project that has already started? [[14.50]] Then why isn't it in there? I see that you are quite determined to implement this project. I have a few more questions. Once again, I would not go into how safe nuclear power is, we have talked about several cases of an amazing amount of failure at the current blocks, the various types of malfunctions, and the rest which are unplanned, involve a significant unplanned, significant reduction in performance, and, in this case, the extension of operational time has been completed until about 2036 for the different blocks, but we have seen it not so long ago, the press has also dealt with it, as if certain tenders or procurement procedures had been written out for the preparation of a study that would form a new professional opinion on the extension of operating time. I would like to hear the government's position on this point that there is a plan, even at the level of such an experiment, so that there is a further extension of operational time at the current blocks. I would also like the Secretary of State to talk about the capacity of temporary storage, and I would like it to be closely linked to the subject, the management of radioactive waste, the current appearance of temporary storage capacity and the procedures in which they intend to create it, so how long is the current temporary storage going to be sufficient. What is saturation, and if we take into account the extension of operational time, how can they expand the temporary storage and how will they be prepared, so that if at some point, who knows, you may not know that when the new blocks start working, that when spent fuel is generated there, how will they be stored temporarily? Thank you very much in advance for the answers to these questions.
u2020-11-19-125	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman Bence Tordai if he's about to speak in a normal time frame, or two... [[Bence of Turdai nodds.]] Normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2020-11-19-126	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I do not abuse time, but I respond briefly to the speeches of our two fellow Members. Lőrincé Nacsa, let's say, is not worth too much of the details, because he practically only said slides, sometimes mixed with lies, or personalized. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Tell me factually!]] What is factually worthy of any reflection is Paks II. returns. Paks II. It'll pay off if the current domestic electricity price doubles the power supply from the nuclear power plant, which is now a third of the Paks I price. So if the six-fold price is the basis of the calculation, then of course it will pay off, but who wants to pay six times the price for electricity? So this should not be an investment, but a good business for Hungary, for consumers, for the population. Very bad business, worst possible business. The other would go to my fellow Member Zoltán Balczó. On the one hand, I am pleased that we are able to use the Parliament to work on the joint opposition government programme, which we are implementing from 2022, to do a little bit here too, although there is a six-party opposition programmer working group, obviously we will continue this work there. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] But it is important to highlight the fundamental differences, and obviously we will also find a way to reach an agreement. I fear that there are a lot of energy organisations, think tanks, foundations and the like in the world that are funded by the nuclear lobby. I do not want to classify some specific organisations, but we know how many billions of dollars worldwide are being spent by nuclear-related interested companies in order to give them the highest possible emphasis on the results that are favourable to them. So I would like to quote the data of organisations and authors without economic interests who are not committed to any of the energy sources. It is worth examining the CO2 emissions of nuclear energy in such a way that we really include the entire life cycle, i.e. uranium mining, purification, transportation, construction, operation, decommissioning of the nuclear power plant and the CO2 emissions of thousands or hundreds of thousands of years of storage. If we include all of this, then I think the most acceptable organization, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which is, in short, the IPCC says that this can be 110 grams per kilowatt hour. Marc Jacobson, professor of Stanford University, calculates 70 grams, and the editor-in-chief of Energy Research & Social Science, Benjamin Sovacool, reports up to 288 grams of CO2 per kilowatt hour for nuclear power. So it is not worth taking out a specific positive value, because if, in addition, it is one magnitude smaller than the consensual position of the most prominent experts and institutions adopted, then this source is probably wrong, but the question here is really that we want nuclear energy in Hungary in the long term, we need it, and I think we have a fundamental debate here. You have to see the study of Benedek Jávor and his professional team available on maintenance energy.hu on how to implement a Hungarian energy strategy without nuclear power and climate neutrality by 2050, let's discuss them. We have a starting point and there is hope that Hungary will develop a nuclear-free and climate-neutral energy policy by the middle of the century or even earlier. On the opposition side, we will work on this. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2020-11-19-127	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-19-128	Yes, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Lóránt László Keresztes is right when he says that I have also expanded on the subject. Well, I didn't go as far as paying wages this time of year, I went as far as I could. You really did not talk about this for a long time, you said one thing categorically: Paks enlargement is not necessary. So the occupation of this, a categorical statement in which both the word "enlargement" was challenged, and my position is different. Well, of course, there are different levels of lobbying that claim that nuclear energy is pure energy in this case, except for the green, strongly green parties spoken, there is consensus in this. States such as Finland, which are so sensitive to environmental protection, would simply not build a nuclear power plant. And by the way, my personal approach, which the congressman asked me, is that I would have expected the government not to say that it will be enough for so long, because there is such a small, thoughtful principle of progress, that we do not need yet, and we will consider, we will go; and I would have said exactly one reason why I expect the government not to pass a law on this issue, in final placement, but to tell us where it is going, what it is seeking, precisely because the public today is facing a significant part of the nuclear power plant and nuclear energy, because it is afraid that, woe, what will happen to these spent fuels, and it is obvious that those who oppose this are giving a very great deal of attention. So I was going to finish exactly what the government was going to say about it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What you're thinking.
u2020-11-19-129	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes.
u2020-11-19-130	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Congressman Balczó, Indeed, so it is right, I think that, in itself, if we are talking about nuclear waste, then it is legitimate to talk about the use of nuclear energy, but I think that in itself this is a crisis, a problem that is worth a point on the agenda, and it is worth focusing on. And I think that the Hungarian people, the European people and anywhere in the world are right to worry about using nuclear energy, but then what we do with nuclear waste. Well, that's exactly the problem. We haven't been able to do anything about it, and the world has been using nuclear energy for a very, very long time, and we haven't been able to solve this problem since. And, indeed, at the beginning of my speech, I said that nuclear energy is not green. I suggest... I don't know if you've been in the area of Kővápőszőlős, how brutal, amazing, apocalyptic environmental destruction has been caused by uranium mining, and how much work can never be done to remove these landscape wounds, but how much work and how much public money it costs to maintain the situation at all to protect the Pécs water base so that it doesn't get contaminated. The question of uranium mining has caused incredible destruction. I would like to mention one more thing, I think you have read in the press that there is a terrible situation in the Fukushima nuclear power plant, what a terrible disaster has happened, and now the reservoirs are full, and the Japanese government has decided to release a million tons of radioactive water into the ocean. That's pretty amazing. [[Loyal Dezső will be replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.]] [[15.00]] I think that when we talk about the use of nuclear energy, we also need to talk about these issues. We all remember the tragedy that happened in 1986 with Chernobyl, and we also saw how this affected, how it covered almost all of Europe, and how it got to Hungary. These questions, ladies and gentlemen, must never be forgotten, and indeed, we are talking about nuclear waste, about the final disposal of high-activity nuclear waste, and I said in my comment that we really need to solve this problem, and we must do this solution together, and we have made a proposal that affects this direction, and that takes into account social and economic aspects. I am very confident that the government will be constructive in this regard and that this strategy will be shaped in this way. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-131	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State, who obviously wishes to respond to what has been said, and I hand over the chair of the meeting. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-19-132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, allow me, on behalf of the Government, to thank the pro-government representatives for their comments and support on the proposal for a Parliamentary decision on the national policy for the management of spent fuels and radioactive waste. Let me start by saying that, obviously and clearly, nuclear energy recovery, as in the world and in Europe, is a divisive issue in Hungary. However, on the part of the government, we are treating nuclear energy recovery in Hungary as a fact, and we are treating it as a fact that, following the decision of our predecessors, we are going to use nuclear energy today and at least by the end of the 2030s, Paks II. In the event of the success of the project, we will use it for a much longer period of time, and with those wastes, these are highly active or have a low activity, we and our grandchildren will live together for much longer, which are produced by the operation of these works. So it's a matter of fact. It is not a question of whether or not, but how to solve the problem is really a question. Here I would mention, for example, whether or not to be the issue for our Polish friends when they are having such debates. We have heard, and we have recently heard, that, in order to achieve climate policy objectives, and precisely because Poland wants to meet the European Union's climate neutrality target of 2050, just as Hungary decided to use nuclear energy instead of coal power plants and renewable energy, in addition to its decision in June this year, to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality, and signed a very large contract package with the transatlantic partner for nuclear power plant development... But that is not the issue here, and it is the case with us that this is already an existing technology, and we need to answer the practical question of how we can address this problem in the best way and in a way that we can find the right solution to this issue, keeping human life and nuclear safety in the most important place. I believe that the proposal and the proposal that we have put forward by the government define the most important framework in principle, which is why we call it a policy that can provide the framework for a programme that already contains the elements of concrete action. There may have been some confusion here in the debate itself. The amendment to the parliamentary decision on national policy is on the table. If the Parliament makes this decision, it will change the policy in some way, then the establishment of a programme based on this will begin next year, otherwise under the leadership of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, and there we will be able to reach more concrete decisions. The main issue is, therefore, how the final disposal of spent fuels should take place in Hungary. I would like to point out that we do not currently have a choice in this sense. It is a mandatory task for the EU Member States under the Euratom Treaty to ensure at least that spent fuels can be permanently disposed of, and in this sense this certain open fuel cycle closure condition requires at least Hungary to create the possibility that, if there is no other solution, we will close this cycle by burying these spent fuels specifically. Once again, I stress that this will only have to take place in decades if there is no better solution in this regard, but Hungary has to comply with today's rules. Otherwise, the waste management in Hungary in this area is fully consistent with all international standards, which apply to us today. Why do I stress the need to provide this opportunity, but do we not need to close these opportunities quickly? Obviously, when you're involved with something bad, and I'm sorry to use this example, but, let's just say your dog dies, you want to solve this problem quickly, you bury it quickly, because there's nothing else you can do about it. It's a difficult question, the nuclear waste case. There is a reflex within us that we want to find a quick solution to this problem, and it would be best to get rid of it quickly, but it seems that since it is a long-term issue, the principle of certain thoughtful progress that appears in this field with emphasis in this material, it is an important principle, which is that we do not like this problem, we want to get rid of it quickly, but let's wait a little bit, because we may be able to come up with better solutions in the future either as a result of technological progress, or as a result of scientific results, or find some other solution, if you like, for all humanity to this question. This is not a Hungarian problem, and it is not a European problem; it is a global question of how these problems of using nuclear energy can be solved. [[Continue in 169/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Thursday, 19 November 2020 169/2. Number Parliamentary Diary Just to mention an example specifically of the type of solution that has already been put on the table in Hungary: the specific laser research centre that has been established alongside Szeged has equipment that can be used to carry out so-called transmutation experiments, which, in theory, is proven by the possibility of a result based on the otherwise Nobel Prize-winning researchers, is not yet technically possible to shorten their half-life from thousands of years to a few hundred years or a few decades, due to a certain laser intervention. These are already existing theories and research practices raised today, but I could mention a lot more. So, in part, technological progress can bring such results, on the other hand, and I would like to point out that the text contained in the parliamentary resolution does not rule out what Congressman Tordai has raised anyway, although a little, environmentalists criticize this not in my backyard attitude to be good, good, there is a problem, let us solve it, but it does not happen in my garden. [[15.10]] He was suggesting that we work on burying these waste somewhere in Russia. That's an interesting point. At the same time, I would like to stress that the text of the parliamentary decision does not exclude the possibility of this happening in the future. Nor does it rule out that if there is a landfill in Europe where nuclear energy users can move their waste, Hungary may later place these materials there. In addition, recycling and re-use are both technologically on the table. So we want to close this issue quickly, but it's a decade-old case, so we have to decide quickly, we can't close things, but we have to look for the opportunity to solve it, we have to invest in it. It was very emphasized by Mr Crusades that the decision on this matter had then been taken. You argued that yes, he was born. I strongly state and stress that this decision has not been reached. I can say exactly that, if the research that you have referred to, and which really require billions, largely confirms that the Boda site may be suitable for the disposal of high-activity radioactive waste, after prior approval by the Parliament, the establishment of an underground research laboratory is necessary, and the tests conducted there must establish the suitability of the site permanently, if the Hungarian Parliament at all contributes to it. So the question cannot be washed away, it cannot be set in such a way that this decision has been made. In this case, as far as the location is concerned, and the existence of such an establishment is concerned, no decision has yet been made. By the way, experts estimate that 3-5 percent of Hungary's territory can be suitable for such sites. The idea that Hungary will look at the state of possible sites next to Boda in another round, and what we can possibly do with them, and how social and economic conditions will develop, is a possible and constructive suggestion. This can be formulated in the programme, and funds can be used from the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, which addresses these types of problems. I think that this issue should be left open and that this issue should be returned in the design of the specific programme. A lot of criticism has also been expressed about information and information to the public. I would like to confirm that we see information being provided on the government side and on the part of the undertakings concerned in all possible ways. It has been said that this is the basic task of Radioactive Waste Management Ltd. and that the information associations are doing this work, that Pécs has also been heard, that the directly affected municipalities, Boda and the surrounding settlements are kept informed by RHK Kft. of this research site. about what's going on in this case. One point in relation to local decision-making is neither here nor there was any justification, that this issue should be decided by referendum or local referendum, because it is not a local matter, and in our interpretation it goes beyond the case. In addition, however, we see that on this issue we are doing everything we can. The question of extension of operational time has been raised, although it is not strictly relevant to the issue. I think that it is possible to look at all alternatives, there is no reason to exclude them from this issue. But I strongly signal that the Hungarian government voted in favour of implementing the Paks II project, and we are working to ensure that the capacity maintenance project is successfully implemented. By the way, we are convinced, and I would conclude that, according to our current knowledge, with current technologies, the climate neutrality target of 2050, which we consider to be of particular importance, what the European Union considers to be a priority, which the Hungarian Parliament decided this June, cannot be achieved without nuclear power or nuclear technology; once again, as we know today. And this is not just about Hungary. The International Energy Agency has repeatedly shown that Europe cannot achieve its 2050 goals without using nuclear energy. In the 2050 climate-neutrality scenarios discussed by the European Commission and based on which we are currently debating how 2030 targets can be achieved depending on climate neutrality in 2050, the long-term scenarios of which eight are expected to account for nuclear energy use even in 2050 at a European average of at least 15 per cent. Once again, it's a question that needs to be handled in a practical way. In this context, I would like once again to ask the honourable Parliament, the honourable Members, if possible, to support this proposal, and, if they have amendments, of course, we look forward to their proposals from the government. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-133	Thank you, Mr Secretary, and welcome to my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. I am now ordering a two-minute technical break before the next item is discussed. (Sunning: 15.17 15.23 President: Dr. Brenner Koloman Note: László Földi és Bence Tordai)
u2020-11-19-134	Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain energy efficiency laws until closure. Government referral T/13667. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-19-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Let me start by saying that in this Chamber in June 2020 Parliament adopted XLIV 2020. Act on the protection of the climate, which stated that Hungary intends to achieve full climate neutrality by 2050. This law also includes Hungary's medium-term climate and energy objectives. This means that, by 2030, Hungary intends to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 percent on the 1990 base, increasing the share of renewable energy consumption in final energy consumption from the current 13 percent to at least 21 percent, and, in the field of energy efficiency, it intends to guarantee that, in addition to dynamic economic growth, our energy use will not increase, but also outlines measures on the basis of which the new national energy strategy and the national energy and climate plan, established this year, envisaged significant steps in the field of energy efficiency, both in terms of regulation and in terms of the use of development resources. Energy efficiency is an area of energy and climate policy in which investment is achieved from a wide range of perspectives, not only through investment in energy efficiency and non-use of energy saved, but also by reducing consumption can deliver significant and sustainable savings in consumer costs. Hungary's energy sovereignty is increased, as while Hungary is a highly import dependent country, we can reduce this import exposure by investing in energy efficiency. At the same time, the resources that we would use to import energy can be released and used to develop domestic businesses, the domestic economy, and to invest in energy efficiency. For this reason, it is an extremely important and high priority bill that the government has placed on Parliament's table within the framework of this agenda. Dear Parliament, With effect from 1 January 2021, a new chapter will be opened on the energy efficiency objectives of the European Union, including Hungary. Under the revised EU Energy Efficiency Directive, Member States are required to achieve a new savings of 0.8 per cent of their annual final energy consumption from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2030 on the average of the last three-year period before 1 January 2019. The proposal to amend the Energy Efficiency Act, in addition to proven and well-functioning energy efficiency policy measures, such as investment support application programmes, corporate normative corporate tax relief or the Home Hotness Programme or the Energy Efficiency Credit Scheme, also introduces the energy efficiency obligation scheme in Hungary. The aim of this is to involve large companies with the highest pollutants, the most negative impact on climate protection, including organisations selling electricity, natural gas and transport fuel, in meeting the domestic energy efficiency targets, by carrying out new cost-effective investments. With the introduction of the obligation system, we are taking a big step towards achieving our climate policy goals, and Hungary's energy sovereignty is also strengthening, and we can achieve sustainable reductions for consumers and new support for economic development. The studies underlying the preparation of the bill and, according to our own calculations, cost-effective energy savings investments can be used to replace the proposed implementation of the obligation system in Hungary over the next ten years by 2.7 billion cubic metres of natural gas imports. [[15.30]] At the same time, retail and industrial consumers will have HUF 270 billion in long-term sustainable consumer overhead cuts, i.e. they would have to pay a much lower energy bill to end consumers. With the introduction of the system, energy efficiency can be boosted by the domestic background industry, such as construction, building engineering, the so-called smart measurement background industry, the production of energy equipment in no less than ten years by means of a thousand billion HUF new investment demand. Investments that save energy would generate at least HUF 520 billion of domestic added value and will also help maintain Hungarian jobs. In addition, the implementation of the system can contribute to Hungary's climate protection objectives by avoiding nearly 5 million tonnes of CO2 emissions in ten years. Dear Parliament, The bill also sets out new legislative harmonisation measures for the 2018 amendments to the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Directive. One of the new provisions of the Directive is the development of a long-term renovation strategy at Member State level to facilitate the cost-effective conversion of existing buildings into nearly zero-energy buildings by 2050 as a result of renovations. The bill also lays down the legal basis and content of the long-term renovation strategy and the rules for prior consultation. The Energy Efficiency of Buildings Directive also provides that a periodic energy review is required for heating and air conditioning systems with a rated power above 70 kilowatts. According to the draft, the review can be carried out primarily by an energy reviewer included in the register of the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers, and the National Climate Protection Authority manages the database of the review reports. With the exception of large companies which are required to carry out energy audits every four years, the review should be carried out every eight years in the case of the operation of such high-performance mechanical systems. The aim of the energy review is not only to transpose a directive into national law, but also to make proposals on the ground to make the operation of the systems under review more energy- and cost-effective, and this is also in line with the climate protection objectives of our country and the results of the reduction of costs so far. Dear House, The bill includes a number of minor amendments, including the implementation of the energy efficiency obligation system, to precisely define the role of both the government and the Minister for Energy Policy and the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office in monitoring and managing savings. The Hungarian Chamber of Engineers' obligation to provide information on energy efficiency is also added for legal harmonisation purposes in relation to energy efficiency certificates that are still difficult to access today, their exact purpose and purpose, as well as cost-effective measures that can be achieved by the population. The bill also includes technical additions to the definition of central government buildings and to the regulation on the further development of the energy specialist and auditor. Dear Parliament, In addition to fulfilling the obligation to harmonise legislation, the proposed bill will contribute to the European Union and Hungary's climate policy objectives, including energy efficiency, by introducing an energy efficiency obligation system. It's in everyone's best interest. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-19-136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to emphasise the very serious commitment that the State Secretary mentioned in his expo, that Hungary has made the commitment to make the energy sector completely carbon neutral by 2050. However, it has also undertaken to launch an investment schedule along the lines of a strategy that will lead to a 90-percent increase in the share of carbon-free electricity by 2030 from the current 60%, which, I think, is also an ambitious target. In terms of these commitments, Hungary is at the forefront of Europe, and rightly so. In addition, let us not forget our other serious commitment in the area of renewable energy, where we also agreed to increase the share of renewable energy by more than 20 percent by 2030, which will again promote the use of a number of innovative technologies in Hungary, and we hope that it will provide as many Hungarian businesses and households as possible with investment opportunities in such an impressive sector that will also increase the performance of the domestic economy. Dear House, The primary objective of the bill before us is to implement the Energy Efficiency Act, the district heating Act, the Electricity Act and the Gas Supply Act for legal harmonisation in accordance with the following EU acts. The aim of the bill is also to establish an energy efficiency obligation regime as set out in Hungary's national energy and climate plan by amending the Energy Efficiency Act. With the introduction of an energy efficiency obligation scheme and the re-regulation of the monitoring and monitoring of alternative policy measures, the legislation establishes a framework with the aim and interest of achieving the EU's headline energy efficiency targets of at least 32.5 per cent by 2030 and can then continue to make progress in this area. Let us see what the most important elements of the bill before us are. The Energy Efficiency Act sets out the legal basis for the long-term renovation strategy. It is a requirement for the EU to develop a national strategy aimed at transforming existing buildings into high energy efficiency and decarbonised buildings by 2050 through the renewal of national stocks of private and public residential and non-residential buildings, thus facilitating the cost-effective conversion of existing buildings into nearly zero energy-intensive buildings. Legislative regulation of the strategy due to the importance of the subject, I think, fellow Members, is essential. The strategy should include a presentation of the final energy use of the current domestic building stock by presenting draft measures to meet the commitments made by 2050. It should also present existing measures, such as the CSOK system in Hungary, and the action plans that can be implemented and can contribute to the fulfilment of the agreed figures, depending on the government's decision. The Energy Efficiency Act would also set out the obligation for Member States to achieve, from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2030, a new cumulative end-use energy savings of 0.8 per cent of the annual final energy consumption compared to the average of the last three-year period preceding 1 January 2019. An important amendment to the Energy Efficiency Act is the determination of the tasks of the Government, the Minister for Energy Policy and the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office in order to achieve the energy efficiency objectives. The Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office will be responsible for verifying the savings resulting from each policy measure and the energy efficiency obligation system at a representative level, and the Minister will be responsible for ensuring the data required to count and validate savings, and the government will be responsible for managing the whole system on a continuous basis, changing the level of policies or obligations depending on progress with the Commission's reporting. [[15.40]] The introduction of the energy efficiency obligation system was first recorded in the final text of the National Energy and Climate Plan published on 16 January 2020, which is also Hungary's main energy efficiency commitment in the period 2020-2030. As a result of the obligation regime, 90 petajoules generate new energy savings during this period, with the following main social benefits. On the one hand, Hungary's energy sovereignty is increasing as 2,7 billion cubic metres of gas imports are triggered by energy saving investments. For retail and industrial consumers, as Mr Secretary of State has said, a long-term sustainable consumer demand reduction of HUF 270 billion will occur, i.e. the final consumers will have to pay less energy bills. The spending of 70-80 percent of savings will thus provide a significant additional economic recovery effect. The domestic background of energy efficiency, including construction, building engineering, smart measurement, as well as energy equipment production, will receive about HUF 1000 billion of new investment through the emerging demand. Investments resulting in energy savings will generate at least HUF 520 billion of domestic added value and thus help to preserve Hungarian jobs. Investments under the obligation scheme generate more than HUF 220 billion of tax revenue for the budget and help climate protection by avoiding CO2 emissions of 4.95 million tonnes. In addition to the high domestic added value, the impact of the energy efficiency obligation system on the external trade balance is also significant, since, as I said, a significant reduction in energy imports will be caused by the introduction and implementation of this. Ladies and Gentlemen, We can therefore conclude, overall, that the measures that are included in the bill to amend certain energy efficiency laws include measures that are also forward-looking both for domestic climate change, for the reduction of climate burden, for the recovery of the domestic economy and for the reduction of the burden on the population, and I therefore propose that you, like the members of the Fidesz fraction, support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-19-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-19-139	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I do not want to start by lawyering, we just need to transpose directives here into the Hungarian legal order, and some people are often mistaken that the regulation is mandatory and the directive is not. The directive is also a mandatory law, but it is necessary to introduce it into the legal order of that Member State in such a way that it can meet expectations. So, if I look at this now, in a formal way, I could say no to this if I could prove that the transposition of the directives did not take place in accordance with EU legislation. Obviously, I have not fully examined this, but what I see is that it has happened, and what is important is that it is a completely positive goal, because we have been arguing here, and we will also debate the extent to which nuclear energy is now pure energy or not pure energy. We can debate the extent to which green energy can fully cover the energy demand, unless we can find a new opportunity to store it compared to the previous one and continue, but I think it is beyond discussion that the energy that we do not consume on the basis of energy efficiency does not need to be produced. If we do not consume it, this means saving for the economy and for the consumer. In other respects, whether we do not need to produce it at home or not, it is, of course, a reduction in CO2 emissions from a global perspective. So it is no coincidence that, when EU leaders faced the challenge of climate change, they immediately launched these mandatory energy consumption reduction standards for final consumption, i.e. by 20 per cent by 2020 and 32.5 per cent by 2030. In the expo, it was said that this step would be 0.8 per cent in the new cycle, and before that, it had to be 1.5 per cent compared to the previous year. I would like to emphasise only a few elements of this large amount of legislation here. We consider the requirement to mitigate energy poverty to be positive in the directive, a certain proportion of energy efficiency measures should be implemented primarily in households affected by energy poverty or in social housing. However, this requires much more resources than we currently have. In addition, there are programmes that are post-financing, and in order to benefit from the aid, the entire investment must be completed first, and there is a contradiction here, as a complex renovation of energy homes means millions of costs, and this post-financing, if such proposals remain and there will be, will not reach the targeted circle. Each piece of legislation is worth as much of it as it will be, so I would also focus on the first period 2014-2020, just briefly highlighting data that I found on the basis of my own research. I quote Eurostat data: 35 percent of the share of the residential sector in energy consumption is a very large proportion, and this is mainly about the use of energy in buildings. For this reason, the European Court of Auditors addressed the energy efficiency investments of residential buildings in EU co-financing in a separate report published in 2020. He has allocated quite a large amount: together with the co-financing, we are talking about EUR 6.6 billion. The study contains the joint results of five countries, Hungary was not one of them, but the experience is quite negative. It is said that the operational programmes and the selection of projects were not guided on the basis of cost-effectiveness. Member States have provided for the renovation of buildings in order to achieve minimum energy savings and improve energy certification, but this has been very often justified at high costs because projects with higher energy savings at lower cost have not been classified in advance. Well, there are examples of such decisions at home. What is a negative figure for Hungary is that almost all Member States have been able to improve their industry's performance in terms of energy intensity. My data now refers to the period between 15-17 in the cycle between 14-20, so the data is that the final energy consumption from industrial gross added value, i.e. according to the specific data, which describes the structure of the economy in a country in terms of energy use, was a 22 percent overall decline in the EU, a 24 percent increase in Hungary. That's the highest figure. So we need to think about this very successful economy and industrial policy, why this can only be done in this way. By the way, I have tried to look for data on how these reductions for the years 2014-20 have been carried out in detail. To be honest, I couldn't find it, but in the 2020 document of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, Hungary has complied with the Energy Efficiency Directive by applying alternative policy measures from 2015. It has now become clear that these measures are not sufficient to achieve the objectives set out in the Directive. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[15.50]] So my question is that we did this in 2020 and I understand that here, if I have understood it correctly, in this new cycle, the introduction of the obligation system will be introduced in order to really deliver on what we have to do by 2030, and which is very important. So the bill we are discussing, the directives we are discussing, contains appropriate instruments to support, the only question is that it will be implemented in practice. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-140	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us is the 2015 LVII on energy efficiency. It contains amendments to the Act for harmonisation purposes, with the transposition of a number of necessary European Parliament and Council directives into Hungarian law. I agree with my fellow Member Balczó on this directive, because there is often a misunderstanding here in the Hungarian Parliament: the directives are binding, they must comply with the Hungarian legal order and legal harmonisation must be implemented, and we are now faced with such a subject, such a bill. The EU directives on energy efficiency in buildings, energy efficiency, the recognition of professional qualifications and the governance of the Energy Union and climate policy are introduced into Hungarian legislation. The issue of energy efficiency and climate protection is extremely important for Hungary, and Hungary's national energy and climate plan has also been developed in this spirit. The most important objective of the Hungarian climate plan is to strengthen energy sovereignty and energy security as much as possible, to maintain the results of the reduction in energy efficiency, and to decarbonise energy production, which can only be achieved through the combined use of nuclear energy and renewable energy. In countries poor in conventional energy sources, such as Hungary has become in the last hundred years, energy sovereignty is also a matter of prosperity, economic and national security. It is in Hungary's clear interest to reduce its demand for energy imports while at the same time ensuring as wide a connection to regional electricity and gas networks as possible, which is also a guarantee of security of supply and effective competition with imports. The aim of the Hungarian government is to ensure that the majority of Hungarian electricity generation comes from two sources: nuclear energy and renewable energy, mainly solar power plants. These are not technologies that trigger or exclude each other, but on the contrary, solutions that support each other, both of which can be considered as clean energy sources. Since the existence of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, we have saved more than 400 million tonnes of CO2 emissions, and the Hungarian solar power plants have also been able to deliver a quarter of total energy production during the summer period. Hungary's aim is to further reduce CO2 emissions in its energy use and to further increase the use of renewable energy sources. To this end, until 2030 in Hungary, two new units of 1200 megawatt nuclear power plants will be built, commonly known as Paks II., have been discussed in the previous agenda. A further objective is to continuously increase the share of renewable sources in gross final electricity consumption: by 2030, the capacity of solar power plants will be multiplied, thus increasing to 6500 megawatts. Economic growth and climate protection and energy efficiency aspects are important for Hungary, and they are important together. Hungary is one of the 21 countries in the world where gross domestic product has grown since 1990 while CO2 emissions and energy consumption have decreased; in Hungary, CO2 emissions are 32 percent and energy consumption is 15 percent. Hungary's 2030 target is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 percent by 2030 compared to 1990. We, Christian Democrats, treat nature conservation, climate protection and creation protection as a priority, for us climate protection is not limited to the level of communication, but it means real actions and concrete actions. We support the Government's climate protection objectives and the transposition of the EU energy efficiency directives, so this bill will be supported by the KDNP faction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-142	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the presentation and, of course, reading the proposal, I think that we can agree on the objectives. The approach is now more difficult to agree on, as you approach it, not only in this proposal, but in general in the long-term renovation strategy, in the building energy strategy, and not least in the way in which you are trying to achieve these objectives. In this approach, there are differences in opinion between us. The material before us is a legislative harmonisation material, which seems to be a little bit administrative, and if we consider that we are talking about basically 2015 programmes, such as the long-term renovation strategy or the building energy strategy, they all have the same conditions, so let's face it, this current legislative harmonisation process has not given you any new impetus to your green programme. We have not yet thought that energy efficiency is an infinitely important thing for you, and we do not see that this harmonisation obligation has given you a new impetus to rethink these two strategies. On the other hand, let's just say that we see that Mr Kaderjak, Secretary of State, looks down on the Kádár cubes, because that wouldn't be true, but he says that they shouldn't be renovated anymore. That's what you said on a debate show, that you'd have to see that it doesn't cost more than the property itself. But whoever lives in it doesn't have a place to live. So we suggest that you reconsider this position. We've seen the two strategies. Every strategy is worth what it takes. I think that this should be monitored and, of course, the proposals made. So we understand the achievement of the positive goal, we agree with it, and we agree on the goals. How is the approach different from our approach? We say that it is not just such an economic approach to this issue: it has a social dimension and an environmental dimension; it does not only have a simple economic dimension, so this investment will pay off how long it takes to pay off. There are a lot of people in the country who basically fail to reach these programs, even because, for example, they live in houses where they are not heated by gas, they are not properly heated, and they may not have enough income to heat up these properties. They will definitely fall out of this program. We see that there is a renovation program, and you will now contribute to the renovation program for 3 million forints. So far, we have seen propaganda, and then there will be a program if we see any of it happening. We also see that they are making a family support system out of both the CSOK and your renovation program, which is basically, to say the least, not necessarily to be attacked, but you see that there are a lot of people who are single, raise their children alone or have no children yet, for example, they fall out of these programs, although they also probably want to live in energy-efficient, renovated real estate. I am talking about the renovation program, Mr Nacsa, before you misunderstand anything else because you misplaced it. So we believe that on these issues a proposal should be made that sets out adequate resources and targets, a home renovation fund should be established. The home renovation fund should not be supported by loans in the form of tax incentives, but, in fact, even for family spouses, it should also apply to 1.4 million Kádár dice and apply to the energy-efficient renovation of families' homes and homes. [[16.00]] It is necessary to establish this home renovation fund, which does not distinguish between a pensioner or a single parent. After all, here at the renovation fund, families with one child can use the CSOK, and families with children can also use it, and there is no distinction between pensioners, renovating their property, and saying that it is intended for their granddaughter, or a couple who does not yet have children would like to renovate their property to have a child afterwards. So I think that life, of course, goes on in a different way than it can only be understood in economics. That is why we say that this is a difference in approach. We think that this has a naturally economic and economic dimension, there is a social and there is an environmental, a green area of this issue. We believe that this proposal should be amended in this way, and if it is amended in this way, we can, of course, support it. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-19-144	Thank you. I give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Secretary of State Kaderja will be in a lucky position to learn in detail what we are proposing, because this law alone gives us the opportunity to talk about what should be done during an epidemic, instead of what is happening. When I think about what my former Fidesz fellow Member mentioned here, that we are in the forefront of Europe in terms of commitments in itself, it can be good in itself, but what if we were to be at the forefront of action. From the point of view that is particularly important at this time, there are 150,000 infected people in Hungary. Those who died in more than 3,000 viruses would not have escaped from this bill, but would have been better prepared or rather done. Therefore, if you come up with any proposals for the economy, I would ask you to do so in the second place in relation to what we have previously proposed. I referred to this at the beginning that it would not surprise Mr Secretary of State if I thought it was important and important that they come back and start presenting the replacements. In the service sector, losses and vulnerability have become such a proportion, where people even go to work to avoid losing their jobs. They don't dare stay at home when they're sick. They couldn't even manage to get the flu shot to them. Well, where else are we in preparation for the fact that during the time of the epidemic, they actually did something. There's a lot more to be said for what to do. Therefore, the alibi they achieved after the first wave, today half a million Hungarians have no job. This is what really needs to be changed, and what changes is that, if there is a replacement, fewer people will be released, but secondly, to those who have already been laid off, give them an escape, because if the payment of the job search allowance is not for three months, but for nine months, it means survival for them. This is particularly relevant, as I have said, to the service sector, as could otherwise be interesting in this energy sector. Or the ones who retired from this sector. For those who retired decades ago, otherwise, let's just say that in the case of pensions with no real value, they were in a position to be vulnerable. Therefore, a one-time grant in this small-retirement circle would have been necessary. This would help to talk about survival. And then the point of our economic policy is not to restart the economy. It must not be restarted, it must be saved, it must survive. This requires these measures. Otherwise, it would have helped to prevent everything if free mass testing had been introduced, because in that case its health impact and, in part, its economic impact would be much less. I am also saying this because I would like to draw attention to a very simple thing. You emphasized on numerous occasions that you would like to produce more at home, and you announced in production that you would produce the necessary defence tools, and it turned out that, despite your announcement, you could not produce millions, but thousands of pieces, on Sárospatak, and therefore these devices are missing from the defence. Right now, according to WHO's announcement today, if 95 percent of people were wearing masks, we wouldn't need such tough economic sanctions. These experiences, however, are ignored by you, instead of making this bill, which I think would require a meaningful opportunity to reduce the risk of an epidemic, but in this, I would say that you are afraid of something, you do not dare to step in it, you are panicked, and instead you came here with this. That is why we do not support this. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-146	Thank you. I give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-11-19-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I think that this is basically a positive bill. By the way, what I wanted to say, Mr Balczó said, so I did not want to comment, but I would only react very briefly to Mr Nacsa's speech. Actually, I have a question for the Secretary of State. You have not ruled out, if I understand correctly, that a further extension of the current Paks block is an option for the future. I'm gonna want a confirmation on that. There has been an extension of the operating time, but we have seen the publication of such a study, which would have involved the ordering of a professional material, such as the purchase of a new extension of the operating time. I'd like to add one more time to that. Mr Balczó has made the point very precise, and we have a huge, many decades behind on energy efficiency and energy use. I will only give you one figure that the country's energy consumption increased by 13 percent between 2014 and 2018. The congressman made other comparisons. I think there's a huge catch-up here. Obviously, this applies not only to this government, but also to the governments before it. You're ten years behind, and so on, your predecessors. But now let's approach this from the positive side. We see that there is a commitment in this direction to face this problem. There is a huge gap in buildings, with 40 percent of energy consumption in buildings. Here 70-80 percent of this ageless, energy-efficient building is no longer suitable. Basically, there are positive elements to the proposal. I would like to highlight one more negative. The LMP believes, and this is, our most important criticism, and perhaps the essence of it is that the government has set very low energy efficiency targets, i.e. the EU minimum, which is 0.8 per cent of energy savings per year, which is 8 per cent by 2030. We believe that there would be plenty of opportunities and that there would be economic potential based on energy efficiency. To rebuild the economy, there would be the potential to be a very serious economic factor in itself, and tens of thousands of jobs could be developed and created in this direction. I think that these are not very ambitious targets compared to this. That is why we regret this bill. But overall, I can say that we consider this commitment to be weak, and we are very sorry for that, but I can tell you that the direction here is, of course, correct, and we have said this a million times, and we have made various motions for it. I think that if we can agree on something in terms of directions, we should also say so. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-148	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Bence of Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. Here you go, notary. [[16.10]]
u2020-11-19-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. You have won an election in Hungary with the false promise of reducing the rent, while if you had only allowed market prices to prevail, Hungarian consumers could have obtained electricity and gas at a significantly cheaper price than your lack of gas in the last ten years. At present, the public energy wholesaler gives energy to the public at least 30 percent more expensive than it obtains it on the market. The resulting extra profit resulting from the damage to Hungarian households disappears with some Fidesz-near brokers, or lands as pointless and unjustified state support at the CÖF, the Fidesz party press, or one of the Hungarian light musicians singing the glory of Viktor Orbán. You have proved many times that you do not want to give Hungarian people cheaper energy. The energy leash used to hold the entire country in their hands is perfect for Fidesz's policy, sometimes passing on a small fraction of the market price drop as a political favor to the population. This is what the ban on the cheapest energy wind power plants, the taxation of solar panels, preventing the European Union from providing non-refundable support for the energy efficiency renovation of homes, is all about, and this is also the bankruptcy called the Paks expansion, which they insist on despite the fact that nuclear power is now clearly the most expensive energy source in the world, and wind and solar energy are the cheapest. The current package of laws called energy efficiency is also about not wanting to give people cheaper energy. 30-40 percent of Hungarian households live in energy poverty, i.e. they spend an unhealthy share of their income on heating and lighting. An average Hungarian household consumes one and a half times as much energy as an Austrian household. This is not because we caught up with Austria as Viktor Orbán in his onionous dreams, but because the thermal insulation of the apartments in Hungary is poor. And then in 2020, you will come up with a package of laws called energy efficiency, which will not mention a single word about energy efficiency subsidies for the population! I don't know how they dare! Greta Thunberg, quote:, How dare you? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You promised in your 2010 election programme that state resources would solve the energy modernisation of 10 percent of the housing stock each year. If they had started then, they would have come to the end by now, and then all Hungarian families would be able to live in a healthy and cost-effective, low-cost home with insulated walls, insulated windows, modern heating. But Fidesz promises aren't worth as much as an enema to the dead. You didn't mean this for a moment, but György Matolcsy, who took this chapter in his name, also wrote that a national thermal insulation programme would create jobs for 10,000 people in areas most affected by the crisis and solve our environmental commitments. But you don't care about the well-being of people and the protection of the environment, but instead of doing the programme for the common good, you've done the big shit that nobody has won anything but Fidesz. I've been talking about the past so you can see how pathetic it is you've come up with. At the end of 2020, instead of renovating the energy efficiency of 10 percent of the housing stock each year, they only promise that state-owned buildings will be modernised, namely only 3 percent of them per year. How does György Matolcsy feel about this perjurement of his personal promises? Or what does János Áder say, who, while faithfully serving the most climate-murdering government in Europe, tries to pretend to be interested in environmental protection, energy efficiency, energy saving, renewable energy sources? And why should we oppositionists support what, by your standards, is nothing more than getting away with real energy efficiency action? For this material that you have put before us, I think in your soul you too are ashamed, and we do not want to share the full rightful shame of the Fidesz government. So for your part, the Dialogue will not vote in favour of this pathetic bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-150	Thank you. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor for two minutes to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, please.
u2020-11-19-151	Thank you very much. I'd respond to three short things. I would like to say to Mr Cook that the reform programme can also be used by those who raise their children alone, it must be a mistake or there has not been enough information from the Member. I would like to tell Mr Tordai that the price of natural gas has been the cheapest in the whole European Union for 28 months, 28 months unchanged, and that electricity prices are the cheapest in the whole European Union for 12 months. So, when you claim in the Parliament that the Hungarians are paying the highest overhead costs, it is completely wrong. You are trying to create a mood, you are trying to play with false information to create a political mood, and the truth is that Hungarians are currently paying the cheapest bills. This was not always the case, your allies had a 14-15-time electricity and gas price increase between 2002 and 10, so Hungarians had to pay 1060 billion HUF more for their overhead costs in these eight years. So I think that was the time when the Hungarians had to face the liberating coppers. You also quote studies, research. In the UK, both Imperial College and Climate Research have shown that nuclear energy is the cheapest long-term sustainable source of electricity and that the best combination is combined with renewable energy sources such as solar energy and wind energy, and together this energy mix is the country's electricity supply. So I suggest that Congressman Tordai base his speech on facts, figures and research next time he speaks on this subject. I would also like to point out to Congressman Varju that it is not true that any protective equipment lacks health protection. You said you were missing the amount of masks you thought were manufactured or not manufactured in Sátoraljaújhely. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Enough masks are available for protection, and they are continuously manufactured in Sátoraljaújhely. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-152	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask... [[For signal:]] Yes, immediately, I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-153	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to ask Mr Nacsa why wind energy is practically banned in Hungary, but I would like to thank him if he answers. Thank you.
u2020-11-19-154	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary Kaderjak.
u2020-11-19-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, First of all, I would like to thank all those speakers who supported this proposal from a pro-government perspective, and support it from the opposition side, who at least think that there are positive elements in this proposal. I hope that further discussions will help make these positive elements even more clear and that the proposal that I believe is a whole new, once again highlighted, will be a whole new market, so the introduction of an energy efficiency obligation system will create a whole new market in Hungary. This market, the use of the power of the market, will give a very significant new impetus to the market for energy efficiency investments in Hungary and, through it, to the Hungarian business sector, and will contribute to the economic development that Congressman Varju so often refers to. This is the third time I've been put in the position of such a criticism of false government and propaganda governance. [[To intervene:]] I'm getting a critique of panic control. I thought that I might not have to respond to it because we are doing our job, but I would like to say that the Hungarian economy has, by the way, increased by 11,6 percent in the last quarter compared to the previous period, and the level of Hungarian employment is at the spring level. So you are weeping for the Hungarian population, by the way, at a time when, on this particular issue, which we are talking about, at the time, they were pursuing a policy of producing the most expensive energy prices for Hungarian consumers in Europe. From what they've told me, it's obvious to me that they'd do it again today. [[16.20]] By the way, Bence Tordai, your ally, argued that energy efficiency should be done here by raising energy prices well, and then it will be worth investing in the renovation of the apartments. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] Thank you very much. This is not the policy we want to pursue from the government's side, and the reduction of the rent was not a bluff, nor was it said from Bence of Torda, but resulted in savings of HUF 1700 billion for Hungarian households. This is why today there is 60-70 percent less non-payment in the energy sector. So we've reduced the rent. In Europe, we know the cheapest electricity and gas prices for universal service providers, as said to the Hungarian consumers, so that we will now add a measure if they read the bill carefully, then they will see that we will add a measure that will create artificial demand for energy efficiency investments in addition to not raising energy prices. This is how we will encourage energy efficiency investments. So we are keeping the results of the reduction of the costs and even making this system more sustainable by using this solution. I suggest that you study how this is going to work. I would like to thank Mr Balczó for his very informed and constructive contribution. I can confirm that the energy intensity indicators of the Hungarian economy are not well compared internationally. There are several reasons for this. One of the reasons for this is indeed the industrial structure and the otherwise very dynamic development that started to happen in Hungary after 14 years. Until then, the problem was that there was no economic growth, and then there was no economic growth, but then it brought construction with it, and the construction industry brought energy. It should be noted that growth cannot be achieved in many cases without economic development, without energy use. It also contributes to what we have already talked about: namely, that, by the way, retail energy prices have remained at an affordable level. If we tripled it, we would probably be better off from an energy efficiency point of view, but the country would be much worse off. So, to solve this dilemma, how to tie these two things together, I think that this proposal is an answer, and I hope that as we go along with our energy strategy, you have mentioned it, and I fully agree that every strategy is worth as much as it is implemented. I can say that this is not the place for this debate, but I can tell you that the implementation of both the energy strategy and the national energy and climate plans, each point, despite the epidemic situation, is making a clear progress. By the way, the energy efficiency obligation system, which is a highly conflicted system... the largest energy providers must swallow the frog that they will have to invest in energy savings in the face of energy sales, which is their main business. Well, you can imagine how happy they are to have this solution, but I think that we have been able to convince them that we have been able to highlight it during the very long negotiations with them, that these are new opportunities for them, too, that they can enter new markets; and instead of paying the country's scarce resources for gas imports, we should direct these funds to Hungarian businesses, so that they can give energy solutions to Hungarian households that can be done by burning gas and otherwise very cheaply. But I hope that this is precisely the new market, this new solution, that many energy efficiency investments will help our economy's energy intensity indicators to improve further. I would also like to reflect here on what may have been the most important criticism of the otherwise constructive... and thank you very much for the fundamentally supportive contribution from Mr Keresztes, who pointed out that our strategic targets for energy efficiency are low and not ambitious. Let me add to this that the European energy and climate strategy, including the Hungarian energy and climate strategy, has three main targets; the three are not of equal importance. In our view, since climate protection is a climate disaster, the aim of preventing the climate crisis is the most important, and therefore the most important indicator is the issue of greenhouse gas emissions. Whether you like it or not, Hungary is at the forefront of these times in Europe, not in terms of words, but in terms of its performance. We're in the eighth place out of 27 at the moment. This, I think, should be appreciated. Compared to this, renewable energy targets and energy efficiency targets help us to play a good role in the field of greenhouse gas emissions, but they do not act alone or as a self-sustaining goal, but rather support the promotion of additional benefits such as energy sovereignty, sustainable implementation of the reduction of emissions and economic promotion in addition to climate protection. This has also been reflected in the change that has been made in the European energy and climate policy next year and in this period, saying that there is no longer a national target, only a binding target, and this concerns greenhouse gas emissions, but that energy efficiency and renewables have only common goals. That's all I wanted to reflect on this particular point. Speaking of your comments, I would like to say very strongly to the clarification question as regards the Paks extension, that I mean by what I said, that, of course, it cannot and does not wish to be forbidden by the government to think that it is worth extending the Paks operating time or not. But that's not the government's policy. The government's policy is to implement the Paks II project, and if you want my personal opinion, then I think that together with the Paks II project and the Paks I blocks, the lifetime extension is impossible. These are impossible to achieve, even for financial reasons, and it doesn't make sense, so the government's position is definitely that Paks II project, capacity maintenance, but we are not banning thinking about anything that someone wants to think about, of course. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] On the comment on social policy, I think I have already reflected on Mr László Szakács. I was very pleased to hear that it was possible that the MSZP could support this proposal. I would also like to refer here to your criticism of the proposal that it is too economical and that we want to create a market here, while not forgetting the poor people. I think what I have already said is that the policy we have implemented and which, from an energy efficiency point of view, may not have brought the best results, what is this, if not social or poverty-related policy, or energy poverty-related policy? This is now complemented by the fact that the revenue from non-compliance with the energy efficiency obligation is proposed to be spent on energy efficiency investments in the households to be supported, and, of course, this is just an additional programme in relation to all the schemes that have otherwise been implemented within the future family support programme and in the past. Here it comes up several times that there are no evaluation programmes on the part of the government in relation to the renovation of housing and the modernisation of residential buildings. That's a completely wrong statement. I do not want to, and I do not know how much time we have for this, but I would like to give a summary of the programs that have resulted in the modernisation of the buildings and housing of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families over the last decade. Between 2010-14, the government paid HUF 50 billion to improve the energy efficiency and technical safety of residential buildings. [[16.30]] This allowed more than 235 thousand families to invest in energy efficiency. Thanks to the programme "Home Gay" programme, which is a complex package of measures and increases energy efficiency and energy savings in the population, a residential energy efficiency investment of more than HUF 70 billion was made between 2014 and 2020, with a non-refundable grant of HUF 37 billion, with an energy upgrade of 310 thousand households. As a result, 300 million kilowatt hours/year of household energy savings were generated, which is equivalent to the annual electricity consumption of 100 thousand average size Hungarian households. The programmes resulted in a reduction in CO2 emissions of 140 thousand tonnes per year and a reduction in household costs of more than HUF 10 billion. It's just a home heat program. You have also pointed out that, through policy programmes, Hungary has continued its energy efficiency policy. This is true, and this will be the objective of the obligation system between 2021 and 2030, which will lead to an average of 2 petajoules per year in a total of 90 petajoules, a significant part of which will achieve energy savings in the sector where the energy consumption is greatest, namely in the building stock. Let me also mention the significant investment in energy efficiency in the residential sector in the operational programmes of the European Union that have been announced in a number of areas. From the operational programme for economic development and innovation and from the competitive Central Hungary Operational Programme, the VEKOP funded assets, the Hungarian Development Bank's residential loan programme, which is exclusively owned by the Hungarian State, must be highlighted in the first place, by which we have successfully demonstrated that there is a possibility of energy modernisation of domestic residential properties without grants. This very popular structure has been announced with a total budget of HUF 89.6 billion, and since the funding needs of the loan applications have exceeded the available framework, i.e. 89.6, the calls should be temporarily suspended. First, the VEKOP source and then the GINOP source were exhausted just a little while ago. In the case of a zero-percent loan aimed at increasing energy efficiency and renewable energy use in residential buildings, GINOP 8.4.1, more than 25 thousand credit claims were received by 16 November 2020, i.e. until a few days ago, with a loan requirement of HUF 79 billion, of which 18,5 thousand contracts were concluded with a total credit line of HUF 57,6 billion. By the way, 70 percent of the contracted applications were used for renewable energy and 20 percent and 32 percent for energy efficiency and renewable energy development in a complex way. I would also like to point out that we are also applying regulatory solutions, as from the beginning of next year new buildings will be required to apply the regulation and the rule, which again gives a shock-like support to the need for modern energy and significant renewable energy use for newly-established dwellings. I mentioned the GINOP sources, but priority 5 of the CFP, here HUF 311.8 billion of energy resources were generated, generating a much larger total investment. Priority 3 of the Regional Development Operational Programme is HUF 141.3 billion in energy programmes and investments. Priority 6 is HUF 68.1 million. So, if we aggregate all this, I can draw the conclusion from this that Hungary and this has already been mentioned here, among its 2020 climate and energy targets, the 2020 target for greenhouse gas emissions is well overachieved, we also meet our renewable energy commitments, and I am convinced that Hungary will also meet our 2020 energy efficiency commitments. So I think that what this proposal is and what it is aimed at is that we should move forward with these results or build on them. And once again, partly administrative measures such as inspection, and partly market instruments such as the energy efficiency obligation system, let us take a very important step forward in this area. So, with this closed, I thank you once again for your attention, and I would ask that anyone who knows this in terms of meeting the climate policy objectives, I think that this bill is critically important, should be supported. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Government referral T/13678. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Once again, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Peter Kaderjak, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-19-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The good news is that this is the last presentation today that I'm gonna put your time on. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary's aim is to provide clean, smart and affordable energy for Hungarian families, focusing on the consumer. We can achieve this goal as part of the European energy system. We also have physical, market and legal constraints to the European energy system. The purpose of the bill before you is to ensure the necessary legal framework for the implementation of our national energy strategy, in line with the European Union's legislative framework. Dear House, The package of legislation adopted on the basis of the European Commission's proposals published in November 2016, the Clean Energy Package, aims to ensure the competitiveness of the European Union in a changed global energy market as a result of the transition to clean energy. The legislation adopted under the package amends the framework for the EU electricity sector in order to promote the transition to clean energy, to focus and promote the active role, rights of European consumers and to support Member States in fulfilling their obligations under the Paris Agreement, while ensuring safe, competitive and sustainable supply of electricity. Dear Parliament, The European Union's energy system and electricity market are undergoing the most decisive changes over the past decades, with which we are constantly defining shapers with the proposed legislation. Our common and top priority is decarbonisation and decarbonisation of the energy system, which also presents new opportunities and new challenges for market players. Technical progress will allow new forms of consumer participation in the energy market, thus creating the possibility for users to be fully present on the electricity market under the same conditions as other market participants and to be able to manage their energy consumption, actively determine or even produce electricity for their own consumption locally. [[16.40]] One of the elements of this package of clean energy is the directive laying down the framework for the internal market in electricity, which is harmonised by this bill. Dear Parliament, The most recent revision of the electricity legislation took place a long time ago, when the rules of that time were designed to open up the electricity market and integrate it at European level. Technological developments, market models and changes in consumer demand have made new and comprehensive regulation necessary since then. It is very important to point out that the bill not only meets EU regulatory requirements but also provides an opportunity to respond adequately to the needs of the domestic energy sector. This comprehensive professional work would have been unimaginable without the involvement of the actors in the energy sector, whose involvement in the preparation of the bill was already in the initial phase. Dear Parliament, As has already been mentioned in the previous item on the agenda, when creating the National Energy Strategy 2030, we have set out the basic goal of ensuring clean, smart and affordable energy, to which the strategy puts the Hungarian consumer at the heart of the strategy, strengthens our energy security, serves the climate-friendly transformation of the energy sector, and exploits the economic development potential of energy innovation. The use of renewable energy and renewable electricity is linked to and serves all of the above objectives, since the local production of renewable electricity strengthens not only national, but also consumer-level energy security by creating the possibility of self-sufficiency, it also serves climate-friendly transformation, as renewable electricity production creates a carbon-free energy source for us, and at the same time assumes the use and mass use of innovative solutions, which can be produced and developed by Hungarian innovation and Hungarian economic development. The aim of renewable energy use in Hungary, the Hungarian government, has also been confirmed by the Hungarian Parliament by at least 21 per cent by 2030 compared to the current 13 per cent target, including in the current 10 per cent electricity sector, we want to increase the share of renewable electricity from at least 21,3 per cent per year on average, and together with nuclear production this can guarantee that by 2030 the share of carbon-free electricity in domestic electricity can rise to 80-90 per cent or the level of electricity. As has already been said, I would like to reiterate that, in particular, the priority objective of the Hungarian energy and climate strategy for 2030 is to increase the installed solar capacity above already 1.5 gigawatts to 6.6 gigawatts, and to increase exponentially, of course, this includes domestic-sized producers, but in order to achieve this, our entire electricity system needs to be improved, networks developed and smartened, and flexible capacities that can balance weather-dependent renewable production and guarantee the security of supply of the entire system should be promoted. In addition, we have launched and helped by this proposal the highly dynamic smart measurement programme that will result in at least one million households in the electricity sector with smart electricity measurement equipment within a few years. This bill will ensure the achievement of the above-mentioned strategic objectives by increasing the production of renewable electricity, the more active presence of consumers on the market and the emergence of new market players and functions. We are discussing a bill that will basically determine the next decade in the energy sector and the industries that are building on it. The bill builds on established and functioning institutions, while introducing important new institutions, market players and functions that will determine the future. Dear Parliament, The legislation developed in the bill facilitates the local consumption of domestic electricity, or, as we say, local consumption of domestic electricity, or local distribution of energy communities, including active consumers. This could ensure efficient organisation of the local use of locally available renewable energy sources. The regulation, with the concept of an active consumer, encourages the consumer to exit the electricity market alone or with the assistance of another market participant, either with his own electricity or with the so-called flexibility to contribute to the solution of the problem of system regulation in return. The bill facilitates the detection and cost-effective exploitation of consumer and producer flexibility capabilities that are essential for system regulation through the introduction of new entities, in particular the aggregate, the energy community and active users. At the same time, it is important to point out that, under the new legislation, the use of innovative solutions could also provide an opportunity to reduce system development costs. The bill further strengthens consumer protection provisions by removing remaining barriers to consumer trade change, by better defining the accounting and content requirements, by banning the application of the termination fee for retail and small business consumers and by making fundamental contractual rights more transparent, to a large extent strengthen consumer protection in general. In this context, it will facilitate the exercise of user rights and the development of the flexibility services market by laying down rules on data management for network licensees, which will also be a new sub-market for increasingly sophisticated, sophisticated electricity markets. The bill facilitates the procurement of the flexibility services required for network licensees in accordance with market-based procedures, which, if not all the necessary conditions are available today, will stimulate market participants to create the necessary conditions in a timely manner, in accordance with the Directive. As long as this is achieved, the regulation ensures that, in the event of failure to apply market-based procedures or on the basis of a decision taken by the regulatory authority, the non-market-based possibility of obtaining the necessary services remains available for electricity distribution companies. Dear Parliament, Our basic objective is therefore to ensure that the challenges of the domestic transition electricity market, such as sufficient and adequate connection capacity, the management of system-wide reserves, integration of large quantities of weather-dependent electricity generation into the system, local network congestion management, frequency maintenance or voltage maintenance are not only possible through traditional network interventions such as transformer change or cable construction, but also to use new, innovative and, in some places, more cost-effective solutions, partly through consumer response measures or market contributions in the form of electricity storage technologies, aggregation or energy community. [[16.50]] Among the horizontal effects of the bill, it should be pointed out that energy community formations can contribute to the strengthening of rural population sustainability, as the introduction of an active user concept can promote a family-house lifestyle. Co-operating active users can develop in condominiums where there is a relatively large roof surface to install solar systems compared to the number of apartments. Dear Parliament, In addition to fulfilling the obligation to harmonise legislation, the proposed bill determines and improves the functioning of the energy sector, with a positive impact on the lives of Hungarian families, and can also provide the other major pillar of achieving the Hungarian climate targets in addition to energy efficiency. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I will give the floor to Mr. Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of Fidesz, for the first time in the lead speech round. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In fact, the Secretary of State has provided this House with information on all the relevant issues as to why the legislative amendment before us is necessary, what is the purpose of it, but I would also like to point out a few things. Dear Parliament, The 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. T/13678 on the amendment of the Act The need to implement the 2030 targets of the national energy strategy and the obligation to harmonise legislation. The deadline for transposition of the legislative provisions of the Internal Market Directive is 31 December 2020. The main objective of the energy strategy is to ensure clean, smart, affordable energy by focusing consumers, climate-friendly transformation of the energy sector, strengthening the security of our energy supply, harnessing the economic development potential of energy innovation and climate change. The achievement of these objectives can be achieved by, inter alia, increasing the generation of electricity from renewable sources, the more active presence of consumers on the market and the display of new market players and functions. The secondary objective of the proposal is to comply with the obligations to harmonise the provisions of the Internal Market Directive, which forms part of the package of clean energy of the European Union, in a manner consistent with the energy strategy. Consumers play a central role in creating a flexible and competitive electricity market environment, which is necessary for the transition of the electricity system to diverse, renewable and shared electricity generation. In this spirit, the bill sets out new actors and roles, which play a prominent role in the transformation of the energy sector, in the model of the future European and domestic energy market. In addition to active energy consumers, such a new player is an aggregateer capable of effectively pooling the energy community and individual decentralised consumer and producer capacities. The bill strengthens consumer protection provisions, setting out the terms and conditions of the termination fee applicable to consumers in the course of a trade change. The bill excludes the application of the termination fee to facilitate consumer choice for retail and small business consumers. The bill also provides for a shortening of the technical process of trading, which should be possible within 24 hours thereafter, so that the process of trading is accelerated. The proposed amendments to the Electricity Act cover the following areas. On the basis of the bill, users are given the opportunity to become active users, who generate energy for themselves, store it if necessary, and feed additional energy into the network. The aggregate shall facilitate the entry of users into the market by collecting individual user capacities, flexibility capacities and selling them to the distributor licensee. The aggregater does not necessarily engage in electricity trading, but the possibility of doing so is not excluded in the possession of an appropriate permit. The new energy community is a new entity whose objective is to provide environmental, economic and social benefits to its members by carrying out specific activities such as electricity generation, storage, consumption or distribution flexibility within the framework of non-commercial economic activities. In the field of data management: the proposed regulation will continue to follow the previously implemented decentralised data management model, according to which the development and responsibility of data management is on the distribution side, and should be addressed to the distributor in order to access the data. The transposition of the provisions of the Directive will ensure access to consumer data by consumers and electricity operators, such as aggregates and electricity dealers, in these latter cases subject to explicit authorisation by consumers and, in all cases, compliance with the rules on data protection. Access to data will also help consumers to be more active and to develop the flexibility market and to increase competition between electricity operators. As regards cooperation flexibility between network licensees: a new segment has been incorporated into the market model of the new internal market for electricity through the provisions of the Directive, the acquisition by the distributor of distribution flexibility services. The concept of flexibility was developed with the full participation of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, the transmission system controller and distribution licensees. In accordance with the provisions of this Directive, distribution licence holders acquire distribution flexibility services to make the operation and development of the distribution system more efficient. The aim and function of distribution flexibility services is to reduce the availability and provision of electricity capacity in a cost-effective manner, thereby supporting the efficient and secure operation of the distribution system. Distribution authorisation holders shall, as a general rule, acquire distribution flexibility services in accordance with transparent, non-discriminatory and market-based procedures. With regard to consumer protection provisions: in Hungary, the free choice of electricity dealers and the free provision of users in accordance with the requirements of the Directive are carried out on the basis of the existing rules, so legislation is necessary in relation to the application of tariffs limiting trade change and the duration of the trade change. The bill sets out the conditions for the termination of the contract fee applicable to the consumer merchant change and, in line with the directive's objective to facilitate a wider trade change, the technical process of the trade change, which must be completed within 24 hours, will be shortened according to the proposed amendments. However, this provision shall apply only from 1 January 2026. In this context, the basic terms of the directive relating to trade change have also been regulated. [[17.00]] In order to promote consumer awareness and activity, the proposal sets out a new task for the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, in order to operate a comprehensive tool comparing the recommendations of the electricity trader on the basis of data provided by licensees. It is important to point out that in 2010 people in Hungary paid the 17th highest price for electricity and 16th for gas. Today, gas is the cheapest in Hungary and electricity prices are the second cheapest for private consumers. It is important that the energy system is in momentum, flexible and interconnected. Hungarian people are already used to the cheapest possible supply of energy to households. In addition, it is important to note that, contrary to the policy of the left-wing increase in electricity and gas prices, almost HUF 2000 billion has remained in households since the 2013 reduction. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I think it is worthwhile and necessary to support the proposed legislation. Please, do it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-160	Thank you. I now give the floor to Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-161	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will not take advantage of the opportunity offered by the lead speaker of Fidesz to open wide the discussion of this law on electricity by extending it fully to the gas which he mentioned, in this context, in the nuanced evaluation of the law, as I might have, but rather by staying in the electricity field, which is the subject of the bill. We have heard in detail both in the expozee and in Mr Hadházy's speech many, many points of this amendment. Indeed, this referral, transposed into the Hungarian legal order, is intended to comply with the directive which forms part of the European Union's clean energy package. When I read such a bill, the current one, which consists of 39 paragraphs, within which there are many points, I can honestly say that I can't really get to the bottom of it. I may call myself a politician, but I need an expert on the subject. That is why I am used to drawing up the cited EU legislation, because they give a very detailed, very thorough background and justification in relation to the justification of Hungarian laws, and I may even say that they are too much spoken in this European Union language. This material in this case is a 75-page material. Allow me to highlight some of the elements that I consider important in this directive, which are being implemented in this current bill. Of course, there are things that the applicant does not intend to transpose in the same way, but at this level he has the right to do so. The transition to decentralised electricity generation from renewable sources and decarbonised markets requires adaptation of the rules on electricity trading and changes in market roles. I think that's one of the most important things. This has been highlighted earlier, and I repeat it because it seems to be what is really the most important message. By the way, I note that, in the case of a need for stronger consumer protection, the directive raises the possibility of introducing the position of an energy ombudsman. The flexibility of the system should allow consumers to use, store and sell electricity in their own production on the market. Moreover, they can also be part of this market through the storage of electricity, even through the storage of electric vehicles. It is important that this can not only be achieved as an individual consumer, but also as a result of the directive creating a community of active users working together, the local energy community. These are cooperation between citizens or local actors. I consider it important that decision-making powers apply to members who do not engage in extensive trade activities and who do not carry out their main economic activity in this sector. So this is indeed basically the citizens, the consumer community, in order to better allow this consumption and market access, where appropriate, with the energy it produces. Moreover, the Directive emphasises the need to remove cross-subsidisation between different categories of users where it exists. There are also provisions which are not for harmonisation purposes. This means that the right of provision acquired in the network connection contract will be returned to the distributor for the extent of the contracted capacity if the producer does not connect to the network for three years after the conclusion of the network connection contract, for 50 megawatts and more power plants for five years. It seems that this is in a certain way as if it were anti-consumer, because it is a restriction in duration. However, I consider this to be justified, as the planning of network capacities must be ensured, and in this case the five and three years are fair to achieve within it. I also think that local energy communities, renewable energy supply contracts, will play a major role here, because, to my knowledge, the Hungarian government wants to solve the 2030 renewable energy target to a significant extent with the support and use of residential solar panels. By the way, I read a polemic about how the company receiving the energy could charge, how much it would cost, and the concern that this included the extent to which, and how much, a residential investment could repay. So this is a real problem. But I must add that the legal basis for charging is established by the European Union, because it is stated in the directive that it is necessary to ensure that such consumers make an adequate contribution to system costs. In addition, Member States should be able to lay down different provisions for active users acting individually and collectively, and in this case this is not an obligation but an option. So on the one hand, there is this intelligible opportunity to contribute to the sale of energy, but I think it is very important that when the government determines the extent of this, it consults with the relevant employers and bodies so that there is no potential over-excession of the willingness to invest. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-19-162	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go. [[17.10]]
u2020-11-19-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that, given the first three speeches, Mr Secretary of State or my fellow Members, we can say that we are talking about an important issue, and I am not trying to broaden the framework for this debate to other directions. I would like to say briefly that after four years of work, the European Union's fourth energy market regulatory package, the so-called Clean Energy Package, Clean Energy Package, CEP, was born from various EU documents, replacing the previous third regulatory package of 2009. The objective of the CEP is to increase energy efficiency measures and to lead Europe on the world market in terms of renewable energy production and to create a new, fairer framework for consumers. The CEP consists of a total of eight EU acts, the parts of which concerning the Hungarian Electricity Act we can see just now in the bill before us, it transposes it into national law here. In addition to fulfilling the EU's legal harmonisation obligation, even the implementation of the targets of the National Energy Strategy 2030, requires the adoption of this bill. The main objective of the national energy strategy is to ensure clean, smart, affordable energy by focusing on the consumer, climate-friendly transformation of the energy sector, strengthening the security of our energy supply, and exploiting the economic development potential of energy innovation and climate change. These objectives can be achieved, inter alia, by increasing renewable electricity generation, by making consumers more active on the market and by creating new market players and functions. With regard to emissions reductions and the use of renewable energy sources, consumers and individual households can do a lot. In Hungary, the number and capacity of so-called household-sized small power plants installed by individual consumers has also increased significantly in recent years. In the first half of 2020, between the beginning of January and the end of June, during the first wave of the epidemic, the number and capacity of small power plants of this household size increased by more than 20 percent. While a total of 59 298 solar power plants produced electricity at the end of 2019, 72 501 such power plants were already in operation in June 2020 with a total of more than 584 megawatts built-in power. I think this is a good direction, we have seen very nice growth figures in recent times, despite the epidemic, or perhaps because there was time for these investments in construction capacity. The expansion of solar power domestic power plants has been an unbroken success for many years, with an increase in numbers and capacity of 45 percent in 2019. This means that by now there are between 60 and 70 thousand households with solar panels mounted on roofs, and there are more and more ways to meet solar panels installed on the roofs of family houses and panel houses. According to the energy strategy, the government aims to have at least 200,000 households with a roof-mounted solar battery with an average power of 4 kilowatts by 2030. The bill before us, as Mr Secretary of State has said, makes this easier and fulfils our obligation to harmonise EU legislation, so I think that I would not take up any more of your time. The KDNP fraction will support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-19-164	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Another harmonisation. I'm going to remind you of yesterday's memory again. I got a call from a very nice friend of mine and a couple of other people who work in the same sector, you know, in the hotel sector in South Baranya. They have a problem that they may now get half a salary if they get paid this month, but they may, only if the company has some savings. He called me surprised to imagine that the other 50 percent had to be applied for by the company, and he told me that Laci, tell Parliament that something should happen on this issue, so what are you discussing today? Yesterday I told him that I couldn't help you with this because we're amending the Fundamental Law, that the father is the man, the mother is the woman, and today the parliament is busy with energy harmonisation. Therefore, it is very difficult for me to put this into my speech without a speaker's warning, to draw the government's attention to the fact that there are problems here. I understand that there is a legal harmonisation obligation, and if you're just ripe for the government to do that, then, of course, you have to do it because it's important. But since we have already heard from the Secretary of State that we already know how this will be in ten years' time, I would like to say that, in fact, most of my strategic problems with the government are always known what will happen in two years' time, five and ten years' time, but what will happen next month is not. There's already been some serious problems with that. In fact, one would now choose the kind of thinking, if you had already hit the panic button two weeks ago, to try to think a little about tomorrow, a few years after that, in peacetime, when it's not about which finger you're thinking about biting, now you've got to overload health care, stop the economy, or try to resolve social tensions, somewhere, finding an intermediate solution that we all know can be very difficult. But no, they prefer to hide behind such an EU obligation. I think that this is fundamentally wrong. I have just said this a little longer because you said, Mr Secretary, that you are sure that this will improve the situation of families in the long term. Mr State Secretary, you may even be right about this, and I do not wish to argue this in particular, although there will be a proposal that will really improve the lives of families in the long term. But it's a short-term problem, Mr. Secretary. The country stopped once in the spring. People were infinitely disciplined. All due respect to those who have worked to ensure that the country's care is in order, health care stays on its feet, and even more respect to those who, following the rules, which they have made for a reason, have lived up all their reserves, consumed their freedom, stayed home, and therefore the first wave has not been effective in Hungary. But now for the second wave, no more freedom, no more reserves. Secretary of State, since we are already touching these laws, since people are slowly being ordered back into their homes by the government, make no mistake, with cause and right, because there is something to fear about this epidemic, they could do what they have been putting off for a long time. He said that gas is not as cheap anywhere as it is in Hungary. Secretary of State, there is another place where the gas is cheaper than in Hungary: the stock exchange; the price did not go higher than 30 HUF this year, but it was 19 HUF. Yet you give it to the Hungarians for 101 HUF. I know that the daily exchange rate will not be tracked by any government, and I know it. But if this were a trend now, a trend, a long-standing trend, then the price of gas could have been reduced. Back in the day, I remember 100-dollar oil per barrel included 100-forint per cubic meter of gas. Now, last year, it was very, very rare this year when the price of a barrel of oil went above $50. Yet the price of gas in Hungary was HUF 101. Well, what's so expensive? The keg? Mr. Secretary, I know that, of course, the management of MET had to make a living. There they must have built all kinds of villas for everyone, bought all the helicopters and yachts they wanted, but now let the Hungarian families have some of this. If you've already promised the head of your authority that a social tariff package will be drawn up, then at the end of the day, I would only suggest that you do so. We did it. [[17.20]] We believe that there must be a social proposal, especially now, also referring to the pandemic situation, a social proposal to ensure that the necessary amount of life support is given to everyone at a symbolic price. It can't be subjective everywhere and it's against all kinds of rules. Thus, at a symbolic price, people receive the energy needed to sustain life. We're not thinking wild things here, a few ten cubic meters of drinking water, a few ten cubic meters of gas. We do not understand why this cannot be given now, and why it is not possible to develop a social tariff or social bands in this, which would include a support system, because, Mr. State Secretary, it is not so difficult to see that Hungarian families in general, microeconomically, will not be in a better position in the next six months. A lot of people are gonna lose their jobs. You don't really support people who lose their jobs because you've had 90 days to find a job. Then, when the plague rages, find a job. Obviously, they didn't. There are about 180,000 to 200,000 people who have fallen out of this system. They're gonna have to go home sometime, and after 8:00, I'm sure, because that's the rule of being home. Well, if they're home, what are they doing? They don't make the money, but at least they consume more. You have to pay, you have to pay the rent. I think we need to help families now, and we have another suggestion for that. We have a proposal, two more, please consider seeing not only the medium- and long-term future, but also the next month. Winter's coming in, it's gonna be cold, you gotta heat it up. There shouldn't be any shutdowns now, Mr. Secretary, especially during a pandemic period. I would like to point out once again that it is not expected that families will be more freed, that they will pay that rent more easily. Be the cheapest in Europe, as you say. No, it's not, but it's fine. I'm even willing to accept that if you accept that if families can't pay their rent in the winter, they'll be in even more trouble and in a hopeless situation. Let's have a decommissioning moratorium. Secretary of State, you haven't fully matured this idea, I know you're thinking about it. Guess what? The service provider is ripe for that idea. He said his name should be here once he acted so noblely on E.ON, that he would not turn anyone off during the Advent to the Water Cross period. Why would a multinational think of that before the government does? ! Well, what does this look like, that the government does not ensure the security of energy supply for Hungarian households, but that a multi-party is paying more attention to Hungarians in the context of social engagement than you are? ! This has made me, by the way, submit a proposal to you that the person who has been turned off is not in a very good position to be turned back on, but you will not be able to pay for it now, Mr. Secretary of State. He's in no better position than he was in summer or spring. Do you know how much it costs to reset? 20,000 forints! They're telling you to put on a card watch. If you happen to have a strong current boiler at home and you have to put on a three-phase watch, it costs 56,000 forints. If he had 56,000 forints, he would have paid the electricity bill. Now it doesn't seem like he's gonna be able to get settled, it doesn't seem like there's food and retail, it doesn't seem like everyone can work from home at home at home, and it's not 6 hours and 4 hours, and unfortunately, it doesn't seem like they're gonna take over the rules of the German Kurzarbei, and they're gonna pay everyone, say, 80 percent of their wages, and then there's gonna be enough to pay the rent. No, it's being developed, and then it's being treated like Polish engineers, and they've been developing Fiat until it's a little Polski. Someday you'll pay 50 percent on the border, but the service providers won't wait that long. We expect these proposals from you, since mine has been rejected, because not so long ago, this is my proposal to get everyone back online free of charge, especially as winter approaches. CHAPTER XXI In the century, I tell you honestly, this is not an express luxury, let it be heating, it is in winter otherwise basically not a very luxurious thing in XXI. In Hungary, this was swept down by you at the Economic Commission meeting. Fidesz MEPs voted no. I can't tell you why, because they didn't tell you. I guess they didn't want to tell me. But I do think that if you incorporated these proposals, and in order to protect Hungarian families, in order to protect the housing and energy supply of Hungarian families, so as winter approaches, a multi does not move forward in thinking, social engagement, as the government does, I think it would be a welcome thing, and then MET and Mészáros Lőrinc and Garancsi will earn a little less this year. I think they're gonna make it. Many of us think they'll be able to make a little less in the energy sector this year, earning enough last year; I'm sure they will again next year, unfortunately. Therefore, I think that we should give energy to the Hungarians at a cheaper price. We do not see this in this proposal, although it could have been included in the obligation to harmonise legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-11-19-166	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-167	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I will not be a big surprise to Mr State Secretary, because I would like to draw attention consistently to what the epidemic threat and, as a result, the economic crisis involve, which are important issues which should otherwise be here before Parliament. Instead, of course, we are talking about something else, and we are talking about the amendment of the law on electricity, which in itself may indeed be important, but I think that today we are in a situation where 160,000 people are out of Hungary, that there are issues that should be discussed by the Hungarian government with the Hungarian Parliament, even so that we do not have to announce everything under the cover of the night. I understand that there is an emergency and that, accordingly, decisions can be taken, they have been authorised to do so, but there are still issues, fundamental issues that belong to and should be discussed. And then they could avoid having to make decisions during some kind of panic movement, and thus forget how much better they would be in the service sector, if mass testing had been introduced, if workers were to be less afraid of dismissal; and not only in public administration, health, social institutions and educators would have to deal with this, which was only partially done there, and that, by the way, the local authorities were involved in this, the capital and local authorities should act together instead of you. That is why I say that the people who are at risk should be in the electricity sector, but I must now bring it here that, yes, you should introduce this and apply it to people at risk in schools. Secondly, not only in tourism itself, but also in other sectors, where the use of job search support is possible, but rather I say that the threat of losing their jobs is hanging over their heads at any time, especially in a situation where a senior expert says that by the end of the year 3 million people will be in deep poverty in Hungary, then you must certainly think about the need to give people the opportunity to find a job, not just for 3 months, but for a longer period, to be 6 months, be it up to 9 months. [[17 .30]] If this is to be prevented, then, of course, they would do the best if, with the introduction of a wage supplement, we could look further away from the practice of the neighbouring countries, and they could help people from this practice. So, overall, I believe that your decisions at the moment are indeed driven by some desperation, because they cannot, do not want, and are not able to deal with the most important issues. I once again call on you to do the Hungarian people the favor of finally addressing the most important issues, rather than panicking. Help small pensioners to preserve jobs, to help their families survive, and to help families survive this year in the most difficult period of the coming months, in the most difficult period of the epidemic situation, because that would be your job. As long as they don't want to deal with this, and instead I could say that the government's involvement in society is more of a barrier to this solution than to help it, it will be difficult to support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-19-168	Thank you. I now give the floor to Bence of Tordai, the lead speaker of the Dialogue Group. Here you go, notary.
u2020-11-19-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Although there are several organisations of renewable energy companies in Hungary, none of them welcomed the current amendment of the Electricity Act by accident. Although the government refers to green energy in a hypocritical way in the explanatory statement, the legislative text actually makes it more difficult for renewables to find it difficult anyway. So the Fidesz government is creating new administrative and financial obstacles to the connection to the network. In fact, this bill is an admission that the Orbán government has screwed up the development of the Hungarian energy system very much. The landline utility tax and the rest of the energy service providers, which were originally considered temporary, but which remained permanently on our tail, and the re-energisation of the public wholesaler, which is favourable to retailers, have permanently reduced profits in the sector to or below zero levels. And if that were just a problem for the companies involved, I wouldn't mention it, but it's a matter of not spending money on the maintenance and development of the networks for years. As a result, Hungary has been left out of the Europe-wide development wave of the electricity grid, the two main features of which are decentralisation and smart measurement and smart grid implementation. This would not only be able to support households' renewable investments effectively, but also the timing of consumption and energy savings with different prices for different consumption periods. With us, this is almost unknown, and the untimely centralized network cannot even keep up with the moderate pace of development produced by the crippled Hungarian solar battery sector. There are currently 100,000 households on the grid, which can hardly be expressed as a percentage, but the power grid can't bear this load either. Now, instead of changing the policy of drastic withdrawal, the government seems to be preparing to make households pay for the conversion of the network to invest in solar energy. It has already been announced that once a year, when a solar household only had to pay for the difference between the electricity produced and consumed annually, the annual settlement will cease. This was a positive option both financially and administratively, in fact the main incentive for solar installation. And now it will be replaced by the much less advantageous, so-called gross settlement. In this, the trader's producers, therefore, buy from the household at a low price, and the household buys from the supplier at a high price. This is obviously a much more disadvantaged and bureaucratic procedure. The current package of laws already implements the preparation of gross settlements, further curbing the expansion of domestic solar production in Hungary. Therefore, the proposal is, of course, not voted in favour of the Dialogue, because we do not accept that the government would have people pay the price of its own mistake. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-170	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, Member of Jobbik, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-171	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to what Congressman Varju has said, and I would also like to say, Mr Cook, that I really feel when I am sitting here in Parliament, and we are discussing an important law, although not to be implemented in the near future, that, yes, in this epidemic situation, the most important issues are not, in fact, these, but rather, the maintenance of health capacity, the maintenance of the economy in some way, and the provision of livelihoods for those who have lost their jobs. At the same time, I accept that these debates are still taking place here, because we opposition representatives, in this situation with our vote, have empowered the government to do these important things not in a long legislative process, but in a regulation. Therefore, I and the Jobbik faction will obviously use the appropriate genres on Monday to raise them, because they agree, because they do not agree, to take account of the regulations to be taken on the government, which, among other things, are needed for what fellow Members have said. At the same time, I feel that if Parliament wants to continue to work, it may also be important for it to discuss these kinds of proposals, because we have left the most important issues in the near future to the government's authority, which I and my group will obviously be accountable for in the appropriate forum and will make a proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-172	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary Kaderja.
u2020-11-19-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank you for your comments on this proposal, for your clear support from the party groups, Mr Balczó, on behalf of Jobbik, for the once again well-established, positive attitude towards this proposal. At some points, I would like to respond to criticisms that were either related to the subject or far beyond that in relation to the proposal. The weirdest thing for me, isn't it, is that in this Parliament, in place of the legislation, I am encouraged not to comply with Parliament's laws, for example, if it is mandatory to carry out a five-year review of a given parliamentary decision, then let us not deal with it now, because it is not so important now. Or, if a draft legislation is for legislative harmonisation, which is due at the beginning of next year, then the MEPs or factions that support the European Union in such a way as to encourage me and encourage the government to ignore it now, because we should do more important things now. This is very strange to me, especially on the part of such Europeer factions, from which these criticisms are addressed. Of course, on a daily basis, the government is constantly dealing with the very difficult situation of the CDC, with the support of families, and with the management of the current situation. My fellow State Secretarys are basically doing this from morning to night. [[17.40]] While we are at the European Union, the current Commission specifically proposes to all Member States that, when thinking about how to emerge from this current crisis, there should be two key words that are always rightly emphasised: this recovery should be green and digital, so that we can restart the economy in a way that serves the objectives of climate protection better and move towards building a more modern, more digital European Union. Well, the bill that is now on the table serves precisely this purpose, so that future construction in the electricity sector will help this green recovery. By the way, the previous bill on energy efficiency was built precisely for the same purpose, so it is very strange for me that at this level, too, I should be out there testing unfortunately covidous patients instead of dealing with these otherwise future issues here. That's actually just something I've been thinking about in connection with the criticisms that go beyond the agenda. As far as the topic of the proposal is concerned, Mr Balczó's suggestion very precisely indicated that one of the biggest developments that this bill intends to respond to is the expansion of renewable electricity, in a way that occurs locally, in a decentralised manner, on rooftops, on the edge of the village, in small solar power parks, and that we must facilitate the integration of this by creating energy communities or by carrying out public solar programmes. I would like to say here that there have been such things as that there is a crippled Hungarian solar sector and I have heard things like that from Congressman Tordai. I would like to indicate that there is an exponential growth in the Hungarian solar sector, I do not know if there is another economic sector in Hungary that can produce, but I do not think there is. These built-in capacities will double in a year and a half. In small power plants of household size, we have heard that in two years we have been at the point that more than 70,000 Hungarian households, the Hungarian citizens who live there, can meet their needs with the most clean source of electricity, and we closed the second METAR tender two weeks ago in the case of large solar developments. Write and say, there was a six-fold over-subscription by investors to the announced development aid and capacity. I do not feel that in the middle of a pandemic it would be such a crippled sector, but on the contrary: a very confident, very strong, professionally very conscious Hungarian entrepreneurial sector with a significant ordering population builds the Hungarian renewable electricity sector. So there's something very wrong here, and I think that's how Mr Tordai feels about it. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The other criticism, which Mr Tordai said, is that no money is being spent in the Hungarian network. I would be terribly happy to make as much money as the Hungarian network operators spent last year to invest in electricity networks; otherwise it could be about HUF 70 billion. So if that's all I could win at a bet, and I could only get the money that the companies spent on the network, I think I could do very well. But aside from the joke, the ageless, crappy, I think he described it as something like this, the electrical network, which is in Hungary, ensures that, for almost a year now, in the epidemiological situation, Hungarian citizens, including the National Assembly, can enjoy the continuous and highest standards of electricity supply and gas supply, without which, I think, these times would be very strange. I think that all those who are carrying out this investment and are working on modernising the Hungarian energy network should be much more appreciated than, in fact, making absolutely unfounded claims about this sector. And one last remark, this is linked once again to the solar applications and the so-called salon settlement issue. Indeed, we see that in the last two or three years, the wind-fastening penetration that takes place in solar systems of household size has led to a much larger capacity than a Paks block operating on the roof of Hungarian households in the form of solar panels. This is what we would like to continue with, but it is precisely the retail sector that will be targeted by our solar support programme, which has been announced, who, in addition to clearing the bank, are unable to access these programmes. The liquidation is primarily good for those who have savings, who have easy access to financial markets, because they can finance investment costs in advance. The programme we are working on specifically targets the rural population in disadvantaged regions, those who do not have much savings and who are unable to put credit and self-esteem into such programmes. For them, the high investment aid intensity will already allow for a significant cost reduction. Moreover, the change in the accounting to which you referred will also allow you to remedy the failure of the clearing of the saloon to spread only systems designed for household electricity consumption, and the electrication of heating will be excluded from these projects. This story is very forward-looking. And if I mention it just for the sake of the truth, it is not the government who wants to lead the settlement of the salvo out of the Hungarian electricity regulation, but the European Union, on the basis of the legislation that we are implementing right now, I believe that this type of settlement in the European Union will not be possible from 1 January 2024. So we are only implementing EU rules here, but we will do so in a way that is good for Hungarian consumers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-174	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the establishment of the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Agricultural Sciences and Life Sciences and on the conditions and resources needed for the operation of the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Agricultural Sciences and Life Sciences and the Hungarian University of Agricultural Sciences. The government referral is T/13676. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr József Bódis, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, whom I welcome. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-11-19-175	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In Hungary, agriculture is a historically important sector and our country has all the potential to become a leading country in this area. Once again, the coronal virus epidemic has highlighted that one of the fundamental elements of our national sovereignty, our economic and social stability is to ensure adequate food supply. The national strategic importance of a competitive agricultural economy in terms of its central role in rural development is also indisputable. In addition, the modern agriculture and food industry promises to be one of the most innovative and fastest developing driving sectors of the next century in terms of global trends. In order to underpin the development of agriculture, we need competitive practitioners with professional skills adapted to local conditions and needs, who develop the country's agricultural enterprises with ownership and responsibility. [[17.50]] As an important step in the prosperity of agriculture, modern and competitive higher education in agriculture is inevitable. This process should be linked to the restructuring efforts of the institutional system establishing a new operating model in the Hungarian higher education space. As the first phase of this transformation, in August this year, with your support, the first step towards the re-establishing of the Hungarian agricultural university took place. The resulting new institution's educational palette, which covers a number of disciplines, has created a quality of training and education adapted to the expectations of modern agriculture. The institution has been operating in a new form since August. During the past period, the university and the wallets concerned adequately prepared the model change and the related measures. So we saw the time to start the model change process, as a result of which we are presenting two legislative proposals to honourable Members. The elements of this proposal provide for the possibility of changing models, the future development of the university and the competitive functioning of the university on new strategic foundations. Our goal is to include the Hungarian agricultural university among the world's top 100 higher education institutions in agricultural sciences by 2030. Dear Parliament, The government proposes that the Hungarian University of Agriculture and Life Sciences should be named as the current University of St. Stephen from 1 February 2021, also symbolically expressing the re-creation of the institution. The new name symbolizes both adherence to traditions and innovation in agricultural sciences. The aim of the Hungarian government in higher education is also to provide the opportunity for young Hungarians to gain competitive, internationally recognised knowledge and degrees in a spirit of tradition and innovation. Under the proposal, the maintenance rights of the university will be exercised from 1 February 2021 by the Trust Foundation set up for this purpose. With the student-friendly model change, a new chapter begins in Hungarian agro-higher education. The higher education strategy adopted in 2016 identified the changes that could ensure the efficiency and competitiveness of our higher education. The change of operational model also leads to a change of perspective, which is particularly needed in agricultural education. Higher education, which plays a role in agricultural education, has to adapt to Hungary's climatic and territorial specifications, economic and labour market expectations, research and development and innovation processes at the same time. The transformation of higher education in this area is also justified by the creation of an effective and effective education system in line with future economic and social goals. Accordingly, building on the results achieved so far, the common goal is to have an innovative agricultural university based on its traditions and also dynamically developing, providing modern, internationally competitive knowledge in Hungary. Dear House, The government's aim is to create an attractive career and a stable livelihood for future generations of internationally competitive education, research and innovation, which will give new impetus to the development of domestic agriculture. By creating such opportunities, we can help not only the agricultural industry, but also the Hungarian countryside to survive and grow in the long term. I ask that, with the support of the bill, you allow the university to carry out a significant mission, including in terms of national strategy. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-19-176	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. István Hiller and Vice-President Brenner Koloman would like to speak during today's debate. The Members of the Vice-Presidents shall, in the event of their opposition, be allowed to hold the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I would therefore like to ask the Honourable Parliament, which agrees that István Hiller and Vice-President Brenner Koloman will be able to hold the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the Parliament has unanimously adopted my motion. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor first to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-19-177	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In the spring the National Assembly decided that a new university will be established by the merger of Kaposvár University and Szent István University under the name of Szent István, where the University of Pannonia Georgikon Kara and the University of Eszterházy Károly Campusa of Gyöngyösi Károly Róbert. At the same time, however, the Faculty of Architecture of Miklós Ybl from Szent István University is replaced. The higher education institution created by the Parliament's decision is largely agricultural-focused, which the government intends to play a very important role in the renewal of agricultural-higher education, as the State Secretary said earlier. From January 2011, the National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre (NAIK) started operating with its headquarters in Gödöllő, which was merged with 13 research institutes related to the agricultural and food economy, to which four other research institutes joined as economic companies. This means that the research related to agricultural sciences, we can almost say, covers the entire spectrum and would be established from the University of Szent István, as well as from the National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre, according to the proposal, the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences, which, as of September 2021, would also be subject to a public benefit reserve in the form of a model change or a change in the status of a model change. In this case, the reason for the change of model is the same as for the universities involved in the previous change of model, namely to increase the competitiveness of the agricultural and food sectors through the proposed transformation, to make more effective use of the potential of the agricultural economy, since recent years have shown that the contribution of GDP to the agricultural economy has increased significantly, while agricultural research and agricultural innovation have not been achieved in comparison. It is worth linking them better, making greater use of market links, and obviously it is also worth giving the universities involved in agricultural research and agricultural education a profile that is starting to emerge here. After all, the name of the university of agricultural and life sciences shows that, in the course of the activity that appears in this framework, training, research on the use of environmental and natural resources will have a role to play, and obviously all the content that is covered by modern agricultural economies. The presentation will be supported by our faction. I would also ask the rest of the parliamentary factions to support it. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Vice-President of the House. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-11-19-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, 21 professors, 18 professors, 7 professors, 8 teachers, 3 associate professors, 4 auxiliary staff, 1 librarian, 1 lab teacher, 1 engineer, 1 master teacher, 6 master teacher, 49 technical service providers, 1 artist, 2 language teacher, 49 professional service providers, 11 department engineers, 3 technicians, 1 physical education teacher, 3 academic staff, 3 academic staff, 2 academic assistants, 39 administrators, 12 executive experts, so a total of 199 employees are expected to be dismissed by a group from St. István University based in Gödöllő at the beginning of December. [[18.00]] This includes, as we heard in the introduction, Georgik in Keszthely. I think this shows quite well how the principles mentioned by the professor in his exposé are implemented in Hungarian reality. Let's start from the beginning. When it came to the merger of universities in the field of agricultural sciences before this House and earlier at the Cultural Committee, I also explained that the intention is to push every existing research institute, faculty and department together into a university, and therefore the representatives of the Fidesz government expect to make progress in the rankings, this may seem like a good idea next to the desk, but anyone who knows a little bit about the Hungarian reality of the university knows that synergy effects can not be discussed here. Rather, it may be what I described at the beginning of my speech as the lead speaker, a group reduction and the elimination of certain capacities. Let's face it, because we are creating an incredibly fragmented monstre institution, and about every institution on whose behalf the agriculture or any of its attached parts is listed, we are pushing into this, and what quality improvement we can expect from it, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm not even gonna go with XXI anymore. In the first century there is cooperation between research institutions, why a formal institutional seal is necessary, apart from the fact that, according to good Hungarian practice, this has been accompanied by increased bureaucracy, since not only two seals are needed for one acquisition, but then, as long as the chain of command goes along to the rector of the entire university, we need eight seals. So I don't think it's possible to expect any more scientific, especially ranking, progress. And that, in my opinion, the institutions of great importance for domestic agricultural higher education, such as the Georgikont in Keszthely, which has been attached here and there over the past few years by the current higher education management, put in such a situation, and that is simply outrageous, and the shame of the Fidesz MEP Jenő Manninger, since his uncle, Professor Adolf Manninger, is actually in his grave right now. I'll keep a low record that Minister Palkovic is also in Keszthely. I don't understand that an institution with such a long history and really, I'm emotionally attached to the Counts of Festetics as a citizen of Sopron poncichter, so simply pushing such a long-standing institution into the usual form of foundation again, I really think it's out of line now, Mr. Secretary of State. I think that again ceterum censeo, of course, is not a problem with the foundation form, but we see what has happened at universities that have been operating as foundations. The worst scenarios that we have seen here in this House, together with my opposition colleagues, have been the ones that have happened. Let's see who you've assigned to these board of trustees. Mr. Csányi bank leader is sitting in the Curatorium of Sopron University. Active ministers are being deployed. There's no such thing in the world, Mr. Secretary. And interestingly, everyone has to do with a certain fidesz circle, that you are now an oil entrepreneur in the highlands or something, isn't it, in the case of the University of Dramatic Arts, which I have been trying to propose for a very long time to the respected Fidesz government, and as if we were talking to deaf walls right now, I think. And then, in the end, Mr. Secretary of State, you stand up in your infinite professor's honor and practically give the plea that, in my opinion, and in the opinion of the EPP Jobbik, is indefensible. For us, Hungarian citizens are XXI. The knowledge and well-being of the century is important, and the knowledge of the citizens of our country, such as in the field of agriculture, is based on maintaining the autonomy of universities and research, not by introducing it into a form of foundation, where five Fidesz potentates are appointed by the competent minister. Well, where are we going to go now, Mr. Secretary? ! I will, of course, resubmit to this bill my usual amendment, which you will then reject again, that academic leaders elected by university citizens and the students' representatives should be included in these board of trustees, in order to give at least a minimum form of approval of the organizational and operational order when these foundations stand up, not as the first thing on Corvinus, in the first place, without consulting the Senate of the university. Mr. Rector, if you had been dictated by someone above your head in Pécs, I'm sorry, the organizational and operational order, I think you would have looked at the person very strangely. I'm sorry to be personal, Mr. Secretary. I think that this is once again a proposal in which the higher education government led by Minister Palkovic is constantly grinding down Hungarian higher education. In the longer term, I think they cause incredible damage to Hungarian science and the Hungarian university world. Technically, I don't think we have a university lecturer in Hungary who wouldn't open the Internet newspaper in the morning by saying that his university is now on its way? Because the way our colleagues usually find out is that their university will also hop, hop, transform into a foundation form to open the Internet site, because with them, or even with the university's elected leaders, the consultations, how to say, series, I think that symbolically the Rector's leadership of the University of Arts, if anyone asks, can tell. I've tried to do this myself. Summa summarum, I think this is another step towards academic autonomy and the mutilation of the freedom of science. I can't accept, Mr. Secretary, what you always say at a time like this is that you have to make a fortune in universities. You're right, of course. Let's say that if the ELTE were to get its estates back, the problem would be that they were largely found in the Highlands, as is well known, and there would be some problems at the moment, but indeed, if we wanted to test ourselves with Harvard or Oxford, if I were to return to the rankings for a little bit, for a half sentence, then I would be very happy to expect, say, our former estates, and then what was confiscated from ELTE at the beginning of the communist regime, and then we could start by talking about the fact that there is a genuine university autonomy within the framework of responsible wealth management. Now, if we are after a 40-year communist rule and after thirty years of neoliberal economic policy, then I don't think it's the optimal case of this method that you have now served full higher education institutions, scientific researchers, their long life course and their future for virtually five people. This is an irresponsible policy, because we see it again, I say what their appointment practice is like in the board, and practically the university citizens concerned, whose autonomy has been a European value since the Middle Ages, have been put at risk. And it's not what you say to us, Mr. Secretary of State, that we are watching with incredible suspicion everything your government is doing, but we have observed what your government has done, so we have experience values. [[18.10]] I'm a linguist, but I mostly do empirical research. Dear Secretary of State, It has been proven that the foundation form you prefer has so much to do that you appoint five or eight or any of your fellow Fidesz comrades there, and that from then on they will do so to these university colleagues, the university citizens, which come to their minds, and we can see that many things come to mind, let's say, once again refer to the fate of the University of Drama. In summary, Mr Secretary of State, we do not see this kind of merger of agricultural science courses due to fragmentation throughout the country to be supported professionally, and we continue to support autonomy on behalf of the EPP Jobbik, and therefore we cannot support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-19-180	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-11-19-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that domestic agricultural professionals can be found at global level. We have successfully combined our 1,000 years of experience in agriculture and the knowledge gained from the ancestors with the innovations of the sector. The incompetence of the four decades before the change of regime could not destroy the Hungarian agriculture so much that we could not stand up from it and start on new roads together. It also includes the fact that, learning from the past, but living in the present, we need to ensure the highest possible training for future agricultural professionals. KDNP is committed to the fact that this issue is as important as the care of the Hungarian land and the seed that has escaped from it. We embrace and support our talents and serve the values of our country. Indeed, they will be the ones who create the potential of countless new technologies, novum, raising the seed that we are planting now. In the name of the bill before us, there is the most important word to know: life. You know that our ploughing-shooting ancestors in the middle of Tiszanyút called wheat, the most important and typical bread plant in Hungary, life. That is why I am pleased that the Government's presentation includes the name of the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences, which, in my view, is a very nice reference to what has just been said. The KDNP faction agrees that the new development of the institutional system and environment of higher education in agriculture and life in Hungary, the renewal of it, has presented the bill to be discussed in order to increase the competitiveness of the agri-food sectors and to make full use of the potential of the agricultural economy. In this bill, the government in its decision on the new operation and maintenance model of the University of Szent István, Hungarian Agricultural and Life Sciences, provided for tasks related to the founding of the Foundation for the University of Hungarian Agriculture and Life Sciences, on the one hand, and the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the university. Dear House, The circle of life sciences includes all disciplines that work for the preservation and enhancement of our common living space and environment. Among European agricultural universities, it is common in the last decade to give priority to other fields of science that surround and are organically complementary to agriculture in the context of modernisation. According to this, many of the leading agricultural universities in our region operate as life sciences universities, such as Poland, the Czech Republic or Estonia. That is why it is very important for us to join the circle of institutions of modern spirit with a move to be taken by Parliament now. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I ask you to support the bill on the establishment of the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Agricultural Sciences and Life Sciences and on the conditions and resources necessary for the operation of the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Agricultural Sciences and Life Sciences and the Hungarian University of Agricultural Sciences, like the parliamentary faction of KDNP, with your votes. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-19-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the House, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-11-19-183	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, After each other, there are three legislative proposals before the Honourable Parliament. The logical relationship between the three legislative proposals is clear. One is not worth negotiating without the other. I understand why there are three separate bill proposals, but three times it is unnecessary to say the same thing, so I'm going to tell you that I'm going to tell you about this bill now, and logically, it also applies to the two following, as they are connected. I assume that everyone who is responsible for Hungarian higher education wants to improve the quality of Hungarian higher education. Therefore, criticism, if there is, should apply to the way that the bill or legislative proposals show, to my judgment, to our view, to this or not. There's two ways they write crime scenes. We see the unsub in the first one, and we're rooting for the detective to find out what we already know, and in the meantime, we sometimes yell out how he couldn't figure out what was clearer than usual. The other is when we don't know who the perp is, we guess, and where the detective is right, where we are, but we usually agree that we found out before the detective, we just watched the movie finish a little bit longer. I brought this seemingly inappropriate metaphor to show that this is the first case. You can see where this is going, and we're still rooting for you to find out: the whole presentation is not over yet, but I have to say that conclusions can be drawn. That is why I would so much like to see what the very best of the profession has already found out in what tone, in what context, it is indeed different, but a very large part of the profession has already realised this, and not because it has taken it from politics, from opposition policy, but because it has found it itself. Moreover, it is the other way around, because most of all we represent the professional opinion in the Hungarian Parliament that they cannot do here, in this House. I want to talk about the fact that in itself, as the Vice-President who spoke before me, Mr Brenner Koloman, said, that an institution has a foundational reserve, that a man with a little understanding and good intentions does not argue - because he can. The problem is when the form that you here claim to be a foundation is not related to the western or American, otherwise South East Asian and Singapore Foundation reservation. It could still be good, but the problem is it's not good. When the foundational reservation was first raised in Hungarian higher education during this term, Corvinus University, one of the most prestigious and most prestigious Hungarian higher education institutions, was formed, but we also fought this debate, but I remember the debate also said that there is no doubt a risk in this transformation, but it provides experience as it is a high-quality higher education institution, which can then provide an appropriate education for other institutions, and thus the path of the future of Hungarian higher education on which it is worth working together can be stepped up. [[18.20]] Let us now state that a full year has passed since then, that the second is far from finished, and that, without doubt, all of you, regardless of you, must take place under special circumstances, but there is no higher education in the world that gives rise to conclusions based on one academic year, which then sets a precedent for the transformation of many other institutions. No way! The profession says that at least three full academic years must pass before any conclusions can be drawn and can then be applied safely to other institutions. This did not happen here, while this form is applied in a row to other institutions of higher education that differ in themes, regionality and tradition. Then let us look at what is happening here in concrete terms, the idea of what is undoubtedly longer, far from this decade and far, not only in the political, electoral cycle, has a decade-long history that Hungarian agro-higher education was not called to be integrated, but to be unified. So there's nothing new in this. So what we are trying to do here is to create an integrative model of Hungarian agro-higher education... once again, I have learned the foundation thing in my speech once more, to make it clear that I do not agree with this, not with the form of foundation, but with the implementation, and I find the suggestion that there is already a higher education institution that serves as a precedent because there is no such thing, not in a year. Then let's look at the realization of all of this. It's worth seeing what's inside it and what's not in it. Anyone who is a little familiar with Hungarian higher education and, in particular, Hungarian higher education, is undoubtedly excellent institutions, well-established training, came here at very different times, at other times to Georgikon and at other times, like Mosonmagyaróvár from abroad, Central Europe and not only from Central Europe, to see how Hungarian agro-higher education does this. And as names have been said here, we can also say from the distant past or from the near past professors whose recognition has reached far beyond the borders of the country or beyond the borders of the continent. If we look at what is going on in the agricultural-higher education institution now being set up with the additions, President Pósán has spoken about this. Not about what's still in there and what's missing. Because this is what is being created here, Honourable Parliament, Honourable Secretary of State, does not achieve the goal of creating an integrative institution of Hungarian higher education, since it is evident that there are such faculties, there are higher education institutions where education continues to take place in the same and unchanged form, so it should be put on, if the great goal is to have a single agricultural-higher education institution in Hungary, then the mathematice of apples is the honourable President, where he is still performing a significant activity, the University of Debrecen, where there is not even any agricultural education, the assessment of the faculty as a whole, I think that it is far more positive than not; or that I should not talk about Szeged, where all this kind of research has decades of history and international news, where is it then? Before I take this the wrong way, I wouldn't want any part of the institution to be ripped from the University of Debrecen or the University of Szeged, because I don't believe in this whole concept. But if you are going to present this to the Hungarian Parliament that it is united, then it is important to give an account of why it is not united. Because then they either want you to be united, or they admit that they don't really want you, but they just want you to put together something that you could. Because it's not like everyone wants it. I quote the Veszpresso this is a report from a website in Veszprém a few days ago on the restructuring of the university, where Dr. András Gelencsér, rector, we all know and said. According to the writing, the Rector's information has led the Rector's Council to make a unanimous decision that the university did not wish to initiate the change of model on its own, but would have waited until the advantages of the new model were clearly seen in relation to the state's operating form. This is a more beautiful formulation, a more rhetorical formulation of what I have just said, in Hungarian, the Keszthelyi said: until you see what is going on here, for example, on Corvinus as a sample, they thank you very much for this opportunity, but they do not want to use it. Now I will continue the quote, and quote the rector: this can no longer be done. The decision doesn't seem to be the institution's competence. Now, please, I really don't want to spend the time going into another stage of our many battles, what university autonomy has meant in the last seven centuries, but I think that at any time, if the legitimate leadership of the university and the rector at the head of the university, along with his own body behind it, which here, with a unanimous decision of the Rector's Council, were to say that they didn't want this to happen, then if it were the opposite, I wouldn't consider it a great friendship with university autonomy, not in this case. In English, it does violate university autonomy. I would also like to say that in this case it is completely and completely the same as in the University of Theatre and Film Arts, but this is the only way out of the statement given to Veszpresso, and in the case of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, this is given a much more lasting and, correctly, courageous posture, but it is completely the same in nature, exactly the same. Let's see, beyond what's left out, what's in it. For example, within the walls and framework of the integrated agro-higher education institution there is the art training in Kaposvár, dramaturgy, theatre and theatre director and other forms of art training. Now, I am far from admitting it, and I personally know a number of excellent agricultural professionals, I must say that they are excellent people, brilliant at all the branches of agriculture, but I must say to you that theatrical dramaturgy does not belong to the field of agriculture, even in its broadest sense of science, and what are you doing here? If there had been an institution merger, it would have been possible to clean up profiles. The question is prose, by the way, because I understand exactly why not. But since the Secretary of State is here, and I am an opposition representative, it is only necessary to create the opportunity for the State Secretary for Higher Education, a recognised professor, to tell us how art is involved in higher education in agriculture. [[18.30]] And one more thing: I also understand the form, the personal structure and the institutional solution that would show or think that this is a strong and unchangeable concreteization of a political intention. Then, to make it clear in the last three seconds: there is and there will be a legal solution that, if we are in that position, we should adopt the principle that we represent and which we are proposing in all these current legislative proposals, judging by us, instead of a solution that does not represent the standard. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-19-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-185	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have listened with great interest to two of my previous fellow Members, excellent professors and academics, and I would not want to break into their professional laurels, so I would rather talk about the political context in which this bill is drafted. Dear Secretary of State, Is that your biggest problem right now? Is that what you do now? Is this the biggest problem in universities today, when medical universities, medical clinics are at the front line of defense against the coronal virus, do they carry a very significant part of the burden? Is this your biggest problem now, when medical students are volunteering to help defend themselves, risking their lives, doing self-sacrificing work? This is your biggest concern now, when the rest of the higher education struggles to maintain education in difficult circumstances, to find a solution to how education can otherwise be run in such a way as to guarantee everyone's safety? That's what higher education is doing today, and that's what's bothering them and what's bothering you? The change of model. I could say they're irresponsible, careless, they don't know what they're doing, but they're not. It is no coincidence that the first package of this amending package came in this spring, in a similar critical crisis. You're ashamed of what you're doing, because what you're doing is cutting down state higher education. At the beginning of your administration, if I count correctly, there were 31 state higher education institutions, and now there are 18 according to this bill, and do not say that it is the completion of autonomy. I ask the Secretary of State to clarify his fellow State Secretary and his colleagues in government, university autonomy means the right of university citizens, teachers and students to govern themselves, it means scientific autonomy and autonomy of education. It is not a university autonomy to send five party cadets, five commissars, and, by the way, above them, there is no control over anyone, not the university world, or, by the way, the elected representative of the people, because we can see that it is so. Now, when the curatorium appointed at the University of The Arts regularly and continuously violates the law, then you will spread your arms, Minister Palkovics at the committee hearing and say, "Yeah, well, it's none of our business, this board." Now, this is not autonomy, it is the restructuring of state wealth, the public service, into a private service organised on a specific party basis. These are not public universities from now on, but private universities, private universities that you otherwise provide with state wealth, public funding, and then they entrust you to your buddies to control them. I must say, therefore, that this kind of proposal is unacceptable and unacceptable in its direction, because, of course, we agree to give wealth to higher education institutions, it is very right, at least to give them their own assets, the buildings managed by themselves, to use them, it is very right, for example, a good element of reform; to create a financing system that returns to performance-based funding from the manual control that was introduced after 2010, it is very right; to have long-term contracts, it is very right, but it does not need a model change. The autonomous universities must be given all the licenses required to manage, to make independent decisions, to create the financial conditions, and I would add that they do not need a chancellor, of course, nor do they need a government commissioner. Leave it to the universities, because that's what autonomy means, because that's how the autonomous model works, and don't come, please, with the private universities in Western Europe, because someone put their own assets in it, and the supporters are putting their own assets in it today. But you don't put your own assets in these universities, you didn't create something, you transform public wealth into party property in this way. As regards the details, I would not go into them, because I think that, on the one hand, this proposal should not be dealt with right now, there would be a lot of other things that either you or the Parliament would have to deal with, because it is necessary to protect life and keep the economy running, because there should be enough tests to provide adequate protection for workers who have lost their jobs, so that health is in good condition, so that doctors do not even have to worry about their changed status, and I could continue to do what could and should be dealt with in this House or even in the government. On the one hand, this proposal should not be dealt with now, on the other hand, the direction is wrong, the direction is not acceptable, it involves the destruction of higher education as a public service, and it has indeed already been referred to by the Minister, and I can also confirm it obviously because of the epidemic, and because of the hasty and hasty introduction, it has not been possible to obtain the consent of the stakeholders, and it has not succeeded in obtaining it, and it has not succeeded in carrying out the professional debates that would have been necessary to settle a series of issues that we have already talked about this evening. Because, of course, it can and should be changed in higher education, but this should be a change which, on the basis of due consideration, presents us on the basis of a sufficient amount of time, with the involvement of stakeholders, and I would add that it will be done in a professionally sound way, so that we know what change, what results we expect from each change in five to ten years' time. In the absence of this, I can tell you to withdraw these proposals, all three of them, and go back to work and deal with their meaningful work, what they are now doing! Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-186	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-187	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Let's look at where we are after ten years of Fidesz governance in higher education, all the more so because we are in the middle of a major transformation, while there is no consensus on where we managed to reach with a decade of higher education policy before the transformation. Let's look at the numbers first. The number of candidates for higher education was 140 thousand in 2010, and in 2020 the number of applicants decreased by 91 thousand, more than a third, and this is not explained by demographic reasons, but explains that Hungarian universities are becoming less attractive to young Hungarians. This low number of applicants represents a 20 percent decrease from one year to the next, and this low number of applicants has been the lowest for 19 years, setting a negative record for almost two decades, so it is certain that, on a quantitative basis, the higher education policy of the last ten years is a failure. But let's look at quality. Let's look at how Hungarian universities stand on different international lists! We know that Hungary's highest ranking university, CEU, has been chased away, and the rest has not been great, let alone taken over its place, but there are fewer and fewer Hungarian higher education institutions in the different rankings. Let's look at the social impact of universities, Hungarian higher education, who go to university, who can go to university. We are increasingly seeing that this is a very homogeneous social group, the children of the upper and upper middle classes are the ones who are really given the chance to get a degree. [[18.40]] Diversity is becoming less and less diverse, and there is less and less progress from one generation to another, and less and less often we see young people from poor ranks, young people from non-graduate parents going to colleges and colleges. So, if we look around in the field, we say that Fidesz's higher education policy has been a complete failure over the past ten years, it has not served well the goals that I think we have in common. We can also agree that this really needs to be changed and that we really need to improve standards, that we really need to make higher education institutions more attractive for young people, that we really need to make higher education institutions more accessible, but the question is how this can be achieved. The Dialogue believes that we are doing the right thing by taking an education policy in which we encourage and support autonomous universities to develop. A lot of positive impulses can come from abroad, from the Hungarian scientific institutions or from the government, but the introduction of these positive impulses is not the way to put all kinds of commissars on the necks of the so far free university citizens, and this is what we see. The change of model that was started with Corvinus, and what has now reached half of the Hungarian universities, meets with resistance everywhere, because they see in it the rectors, the senates, the academics and students that it is taking away from their freedom, their independence, their autonomy. And they don't see it for no reason, and even if they're not right yet, there's no way to turn a university against the will of the university's citizenship. There will be no progress if there are one or two political appointees, and they want something quite different than the majority of university citizenship, teachers and leaders of the university. They should be agreed, consensus should be reached, this would be the basis for a functioning higher education policy, and then we would not see that more combatant or subtle, but practically all the institutions involved say that they do not like it. Where there is still room for this, either with a brave stand, as in the University of Theatre and Film Arts, or with the conversions of the University of Pannon in the case of the University of Pannonia, with a bit of enigmatic press statements, but it is clear to the public that they are not partners in what you are about to do to them, because these changes are not happening in cooperation with them. This foundation model alone does not solve any content issues, content problems, while there are content issues and content issues, and I am sure that on the pro-government side too, a lot of competent, expert and policy-makers could tell us where to improve. But that is not the case, but it is a system of higher education, consisting of organisations governed by members of the board of trustees appointed from their own circles, which will not affect the improvement of the quality of higher education again, but it is certainly a good tool for the cultural struggle that we see on virtually every front of life, from lower secondary education to different areas of culture, even now in higher education. I'm sure this won't work for a long time. The failed higher education policy that has been implemented over the past ten years cannot continue and you can be sure that in 2022, after the change of government, we will take a completely different direction. The question is how difficult they can make the chances of a well-meaning, truly positive, progressive, forward-looking reform. I see you're trying, I see you're about to lose the election, I see you're trying to leave behind political garrisons, bridgeheads, but they can and must be eliminated. Because if the country's leadership changes, and Hungary really deserves not to be led by such a willful author after 2022, it will not be permissible for parallel states, abandoned political free teams, free fighters from deep states to prevent us from turning the chariot of higher education in a better direction. We will do everything we can for this reason, and I would ask you gently, culturally, not to do too much damage for the rest of the year and a half, not to touch the institutions that have not been disturbed, to withdraw their proposal for the conversion of St. Stephen's University and the University of Pannonia, and if you have a little bit of blood in your dick, then feel free to undo the outsourcings that have already been committed, the donations to the various Hungarian higher education institutions. I ask you to serve the interests of future generations and of the current university citizens, because the fact that these legislative proposals, which we are now dealing with in the next two subjects, are not what they serve, is quite certain. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-19-188	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. [[There's no candidate.]] No one has asked for a two-minute time frame, so we now have further speeches. I give the floor to the first independent Member, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Now, Thursday night, the last three legislative proposals concern the university system or the research network system. The first proposal is the T/13676, which creates the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences and gives to the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences the assets that have been used separately by the universities. Of course, as many of my fellow Members have already said, the problem is not in itself with the new system that the Orbán government has been trying to create in the university world for a year now, by trying to create university life and education for the future with the help of foundations or in the legal framework of foundations, but the problem is that these foundations are not private foundations, these foundations are not organisations created as an organic system, which provide such a framework for the university, university education and the infrastructure needed for education, because it is a good framework for invested wealth, but because they create a parallel power system. The aim of this system is that, if someone else is to govern Hungary, they can also take the part of the state's wealth out of the government's hands to organise higher education and provide infrastructure for higher education. There's nothing else here. Otherwise, this proposal will bring down the government in a further way when we look at the annex to see what assets it gives to the university so that the fate of these assets can be decided by the Board. Look, fellow Members, how many Balaton real estates, how many flats and other valuable assets are on the list that are not directly linked to university education activities! Of course, we all know that a lot of service apartments have been built for universities, many other buildings needed for convenience and leisure activities, but this law does not guarantee in any way that these assets will indeed be necessary and will continue to be related to university education in the future. [[18.50]] Nothing guarantees it, and indeed, all the proposals specifically say that it is only the assets associated with educational activity that cannot be alienated. But in this list, there are a number of assets the location of which is the favorite target of people around the government, so that they can obtain property cheaply in such areas. So I think that even a double goal can be achieved with this proposal. I believe that this university is creating an extremely difficult conglomerate to operate. I do not think that it is possible to operate a university in Keszthely, Gödöllő, Békéscsaban, Budapest, Gyöngyös, Kaposvár, Szarvas. I don't think so. I think, in addition to creating a parallel power system, these organisations, separated from the state, will create a commissary company that will be put to work in these organisations, who will always have a safe place even after a government change. This is a tertiary goal that I see coming out of these proposals. And I think that, in recent years, the very poor and unrated human resources of universities already in the form of foundations, with which they have built the Curatoriums, guaranteeing that the future of quality university education is not guaranteed here. It is an existential issue of people, political loyalty, loyalty, everything that the operation of the new Curatoriums and the people they appoint represent. What does not appear here in any way as a priority, as a target to be protected, or as a surplus for the Hungarian nation, is to be a quality education, where children can develop in a qualitative way, and to be able to complete their higher education studies in Hungary and become excellent professionals. I think that goal is completely lost. In this proposal, compared to the previous ones, and what we will discuss this evening is different or new, it is that after the founder's rights are exercised by the Ministry of Innovation and Technology and the foundation is established, the agricultural portfolio may delegate a curator in respect of this university. I'd like to ask in a modest way that I see that there are not a few curators in the foundations that have already been set up, but only one person in an agricultural university can be delegated to the agricultural portfolio? Really? I want you to think about it. It's the University of Agriculture. Can't those seven or eight people fit another person from the agricultural world or from the Ministry of Agriculture? It also shows where the stronger positions in the government are, who have a stronger lobbying power than the Prime Minister, or who are more preferred and who are actually the bad ones. Let me say that I am not surprised, because it is Minister István Nagy who I would like to see as the Minister of Agriculture of any government at any time, because he is doing his job very well, and I think that the whole opposition is in this position in complete unity. [[For interventions:]] My apologies are very often praised. I would like to point out that my fellow Members do not quite agree, but I still think that he is the best minister in this government in his capacity, but he is probably the one who does not have enough lobbying power, because if anyone should have had the say or say that such a conglomerate would be created by the government for agricultural education. Of course, at my first speech, when I may have spoken at the university in Sopron, or I don't know which university I spoke at, and I told you, and it was still unclear, Mr. Secretary of State, but it seems that the legal solution doesn't change now, we still don't know what a university is, and what a curatorium is, and what a foundation is. It's so gibberish from a legal point of view, what's in these proposals! I can't imagine that this is going to work properly in real life. Because he's setting up a foundation, and the foundation's assets are the founding rights of the university. So, assets of no financial value are founder's property. Because money can't express the founding rights of a university. And then he says that he doesn't give the assets to the foundation, let's say, I don't mind that, but the university, in order to gain rights in its own name, has to be a legal entity, which can no longer be defined as a budgetary institution, since there is no other form of organisation of universities today. Meanwhile, the proposal states that your predecessor is a budgetary institution. Well, then what's college now if he's not a budgetary institution anymore? It's a bunch of bullshit! I know the biggest problem will be here. I don't know where they are in the land records at the time of the registration, but I can imagine that the administrators had to close their eyes to enter these changes, because these property rights will be registered through and in the way of legal institutions that don't exist in the real estate register, and there's no way to know how that organizational status will be justified by the lawyer to the land office. I know that this is too much legal, but whether you like it or not, this is something that needs to be dealt with, because these laws need to be implemented somehow. There is one end to a hundred words, of course I will not vote either, this or any such proposal. And not only because I can see the real underlying goal, but also because I think it is entirely false to save wealth from national wealth in this way, to use the sacred cause of education to create this power system. And to be honest, I wouldn't want to offend the professor, but I am extremely surprised that, after such a wonderful professional past, he is helping me with this. And, you know, I don't call you Secretary of State on purpose, if I don't offend you, but I call you Professor, simply because I respect the Professor more in you, because you are, and I think you are the proudest. A few years from now, it's gonna turn out that this didn't go well. To be honest, I don't really want to be in your shoes. And to a certain extent, I am angry with the Orbán system that many people who in their professional lives have a great way of life, because with a great task, because why wouldn't such a great task be a public activity, and who wouldn't want to be in such a position, are being used to assist in changes that are not at all the purpose of what they are talking about. In the system itself, there's a possibility that this really isn't going to go well. I think that my fellow university Members, who spoke before me or the school politician, did not by chance present the anomalies that are already visible and the problems that are expected for the future, which I do not understand today, why the government does not listen and why they did not do this differently. It will really be very painful when we see the outcome and we can draw conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-19-190	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-19-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Like my fellow Members, I would like to talk about the three legislative proposals at the same time, because my first speech as a keynote speaker on the form of foundation, of course, concerned all three of them. But it is obviously important to me that the name of the University of Pannonia should also be mentioned from my mouth, even because for two years I have been an instructor in German language and literature at the University of Veszprém even in the 1990s, and I am also emotionally attached to this institution. And here I am complementing what I said earlier when I referred to the negotiations in the transformations in the form of a foundation. [[19.00]] Mr. Secretary of State, dear Professor, what is it like when Tibor Navracsics, former European Commissioner of Fidesz, who is currently not, besides the fact that Győr-Moson-Sopron County Government Commissioner, may not have a bigger and other function, goes there and tells the university's elected leaders that he will be president of the Board, and this and this and this? This requires a style, which, according to Jobbik of the EPP, has nothing to do with a civilian and conservative government, because these values have been represented by the pro-Christianist Jobbik for many years and not by Fidesz. However, Minister Hiller also referred to this, when, despite the unanimous decision of the Rector's Council, the Commissar comes and says, reads the verdict, and then says that it is an ectant example of the development of the university world, I think, at least, a thought-provoking diction of events. I do not wish to repeat all that I said in my previous speech on academic autonomy and academic freedom, but I think it is because I hope that tomorrow the Council of Europe will approve the Brenner report on academic freedom and academic autonomy, that we should stop a very bad trend, Professor, and I think that these proposals and previous foundations will also be corrected by the National Unity Government, which we hope will stand up in 2022. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-19-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member László Pósán, Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-19-193	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Some things have been said that I think it's appropriate to put in place a little. Several have suggested that this is a step that undermines university autonomy. Gergely Arató said that freedom of science and education is the essence of university autonomy. I agree perfectly with him, indeed. On the other hand, these steps do not affect scientific research or the issue of education in any of these respects. They do mean a change of maintenance, but it is also included in the Fundamental Law as to what constitutes university autonomy, its maintenance designation does not fall within this category. So I just want to clarify that, in this sense, this is not a change affecting academic autonomy. If there was an example of university autonomy, the autonomy of science, in particular, education, being fundamentally affected, it was precisely when you, Mr Arató, were also in office as a state, introduced the Bologna system in a rapid manner, one moment after another, and, in the case of a small million majors, the feedback came that this was simply not going to work, that it was going to die. That's what happened. For example, teacher training has been trashed in its entirety, that's the truth. Well, that really touched on university autonomy, because it affected the issue of education. As an example, you brought the SFE. In the case of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, it's not that there is something that the government would want to eliminate, it's precisely that it wants to expand something in addition to the existing one. That was the intention. This does not affect the issue of autonomy again, because existing cases would not be affected by anyone. He said that we should extend it to some of these, like, directions. As many universities have done in recent years and decades, they have expanded their training supply and increased in this sense. Congressman Hiller says that a unified agricultural education would be the government's goal. There is no such thing anywhere, Congressman, that there should be only one major monolithic university. It is said that it needs to be made more efficient, and this means virtually three agricultural training centres, one in Western Hungary, one in Central Hungary and one in Eastern Hungary. They are all associated with specific profiles other than the classic agricultural content. So, for example, you mentioned Debrecen. Indeed, but I said this once before, as I recall, that the peculiarity and specificity of agricultural education in Debrecen is that it is significantly linked to so-called food scientific areas, not only and exclusively to classical crop production or livestock production, thanks to the presence of the medical staff. The now established Gödöllő-based agricultural university, I started to mention a few things for a reason, not only classically but also livestock production, but also from the protection of biological heritage, very, very much, the exploitation of natural resources, nature conservation, climate issues. This is also an answer to what Andrea Varga-Damm put up, to the board of trustees out of what and as a delegate. Since the university will not be a classically and exclusively known agricultural-specific aspect of the university for decades, there is obviously a need for professionals from other areas, knowledge of environmental management, food quality, or related. And a curatorium, of course, cannot be the size of regiment, it is clear that there is a kind of restriction here in this sense. Bence of Turdai is not present, but I can say... [[Bence of Turdai from the notary seat: I'm here!]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. But I can still tell you that please look into various allegations. He says that Hungarian universities are hardly included in the international ranking. This doesn't match the reality. The fact is that for the last eight to ten years, if we look back, we see that there are always, always, where they are reaped, in smaller steps, but constantly at least five to six weeks of Hungarian universities, when, depending on which international ranking we look at, but they come forward. It should be said that SOTE, ELTE, BME, Pécs, Debrecen, Szeged universities are listed there, which are when, on what level, but basically in the first thousand, they are always in it, that's the truth. This is no small thing in the case of a country of the size of Hungary. When you say that, you essentially underestimate the performance of these universities, teachers and researchers there. I don't think that's right. Just as it is not right for you to say that you can't get into colleges with a social background that is worse. I would just like to draw your attention to the number of scholarships available, to see how many social benefits they can use, and also to see how and how student loans have been extended in recent times. I believe that these opportunities serve to expand this. I do not claim that this is Canaan and that it is a solution to everything, but to say that the roads are blocked from them is obviously not the way to reality. I would also like to note that this is not a private foundation. Public foundations are being created, and as a public foundation, it is true that the various public authorities control the public foundation, including the SAO. So it's not the situation at all that you're seeing, that all kinds of asset takedowns and the devil knows what's going on. I think, in this respect, there are sufficient legal guarantees, just as there are sufficient legal guarantees regarding asset management that what, where, for how long can be used. Overall, the fact is that what makes these steps happen is precisely what they do, and because universities, higher education institutions, where they have a relatively well-captured profile and have a strong link with the economic sphere, there the Public Finance Act or even the rigid framework of the Public Employee Act would create more and more obstacles in terms of the extent to which they are able to establish market relations, to what extent they can develop corporate cooperation and, in this sense, to what extent they can be more involved in innovation activity, which, in turn, could be of key importance for the Hungarian economy overall. When asked why they should be done at this rate, it is precisely because of the increasing demand of this type, and precisely because when it is a crisis period, it is necessary to speed up all the steps that enable the Hungarian economy to recover quickly afterwards. [[19.10]] One more comment, please. This has been said, and I don't know who said it all of a sudden, but from that point of view it doesn't matter, it was somehow said that during the epidemic period the epidemic should be dealt with in the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, It was not so long ago that Parliament had voted here to hand over the powers of action in relation to the epidemic to the government, and it could act by decree, because if the Parliament would do so within its normal framework, the process would be incredibly slow. So I don't understand why they want to negotiate in Parliament now the measures on which Parliament voted that it is the government's jurisdiction. What the Parliament is discussing here is obviously on issues that have nothing to do with the daily epidemic situation, which is why we can talk about such things. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK.
u2020-11-19-195	Thank you very much. These debates, which took place late at night or early this evening, are very good, because without disturbing our fellow Members, there is a way to discuss some of the professional issues in a little more detail. One of these concerns the introduction of the Bologna system. I would like to remind my fellow Members that the Bologna Declaration for the Bologna system was signed in 1999 by Zoltán Pokorni, Minister of the First Orbán Government. The development of the new Higher Education Act started in 2002, and there were significant reforms already during the Orbán government, and in 2005, three years later, the law was born. I wouldn't say he's loyal to that, but we've suddenly introduced the Bologna system. It appeared from the beginning that teacher training was one of the problematic points of the Bologna system, but the Ministry did not solve this by forcing it on the universities, that I myself was present at the meeting where the affected, I think, rectors, but maybe deans created the solution that ended up in the law. I must tell you, therefore, that although the design of the training structure is still not within the competence of university autonomy, I note that it would be considered to have a greater autonomy for universities, but this was not decided and determined against university leaders at the time. As far as crisis management is concerned, of course, the government has everything at its disposal to make the decisions it needs to make immediately. I wish you'd bring them. Measures to save the economy, to save jobs, to save people from poverty are still being talked about. On Monday, you said Secretary of State Hollik, if I remember correctly, but perhaps Congressman Satmary doesn't matter whether the big economic package comes. Still no sign of him. Maybe the congressman doesn't want to know what's in it. I would very much like to know what will happen to Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses.
u2020-11-19-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-11-19-197	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to thank Mr Pósán and Mr Earth MEPs for their support, Mr Pósán, specifically for giving me answers to a number of the problems that have been raised; at the same time, it is clear that opposition representatives should respond to sentences and criticism. First from the subjective side. I am very grateful for your compassion, Mrs Varga-Damm, but in virtually all of your contributions I felt a kind of, to say the least, a kind of compassion, and I am responding positively to that. Thank you. I appreciate it. However, despite serious criticisms of the bill, whether I personally or personally, and even taking into account my gratitude for the positive human attitude, I must say that I voted for a change of model years ago in professional forums that we can take on today. Indeed, ten years ago at the first rector conference plenum, I raised the question of autonomy as to how we can interpret university autonomy without the university having assets. I'm glad you're all positive that universities get wealth. This model change process gives universities the wealth elements in which they can carry out their core activities, i.e. education and research. The form of foundation is not unknown either in Hungary or in the world. Very positive, good examples could be given, but I am not going to repeat them here because I have said them several times. But it is certainly not about organizing anything, anything to say, renting out, or handing over certain opportunities, but about having and exercising maintenance rights in a curatorium that is considered a professional gnome, which, in addition to the basic functions of the university, can also have the potential to open up a different room for manoeuvre in social utilisation, i.e. in the social utilization of university activity, in terms of education and research, not to mention that it can also lead to a much more flexible situation in terms of farming. Congressman Brenner Koloman, Vice-President, regularly brings Latin quotes: ceterum censeo has a sequel to Carthaginem esse delendam. Well, there's no Carthage here, and we don't want to ruin anything, but we want to build it. We want to build and give a chance to the grey stock, the university that has knowledge, which has a much more limited margin of movement today. I do not want to go around the issue of dismissal either, but it must go back to the step when integration created the new structure of the university in terms of agricultural education. Congressman Pósán pointed out that we did not want to create a large agricultural university, because either in Debrecen or in Szeged, agricultural education works brilliantly with all its advantages and certain limitations in the academic environment, it produces great results, it creates excellent professionals. However, in the other places, and here I would like to highlight the University of St. Stephen, agricultural education has been extremely present with a very wide portfolio, but Georgikon has worked with a much narrower portfolio, the Gyöngyös faculty has moved to the university, worked with a much smaller portfolio, and the University of Kaposvár, whose agricultural line represents a particularly high quality, has now entered the integrated new agricultural university as a whole, but the negotiations and processes have not stopped. Obviously, in the long term, an art faculty, but even the pedagogical faculty, is difficult to interpret in a large agricultural university. [[19.20]] At the same time, the life science indicator, however, gives you the opportunity to understand this. I can't tell you exactly where these common thinking, the negotiations will go, but I would like to point out that discussions are taking place on the long-term fate of the non-agricultural profiles of the University of Kaposvár and the negotiations are ongoing. Usually about the negotiations. Vice President Hiller, Minister, quoted a press organ, and I didn't know it, but I accept it as saying it. At the same time, I would like to deny one thing: the Rector of the University of Pannonia did not first hear from Commissioner Navracsics about the proposed change of model, but, when he thought about it, I spoke with Rector, Chancellor, after a scientific conference. Undoubtedly, they were not thrilled with the opportunity, but we started to think together, and about a month ago, Rector said that he understood and agreed to do so. So I don't know when this publication came out. Speed. Yes, when the decision is made, you have to go through the process relatively quickly, but it's just about the leg of law. The process, for example, started long before the previous elections on the agricultural-higher education institution. Minister Palkovics, as Secretary of State, received serious criticisms about his movement in this area. The process did not stop, but obviously that integration did not take place. Thinking continued, and the professional foundation of this bill started a good year and a half ago, with an expert team meeting every month, which first analysed the situation of Hungarian agricultural education, analysed the current situation and conditions of international agricultural education. He was looking for a model model of what we should do, obviously adapted to Hungarian relations, and I would like to present it just like this. [[He's showing me a document.]] Every month, this team of experts put down such professional materials. So the fact that the bill is submitted is an act and the material is done is also an act that goes through the process in Parliament is natural. However, I must stress that this is not an ad hoc decision, it is the result of a very serious, extremely serious process with experts. The Bologna case. So it must be as Mr Arató said, because he was in the system at the time, and I think that he was an active participant in the Bologna process; otherwise I too. At the time, I was a head of the health department, and it was a very hard and very fast work that had to be introduced in a year. They've been criticizing and attacking the Bologna Process ever since. I also write the criticisms in professional forums, but at the same time I defend it, because by implementing the Bologna process in Hungarian higher education, we have actually entered the European Higher Education Area, and it is its greatest virtue. I'm not talking about credit and other matters right now, but I think it was an infinitely positive thing, even if it had to be introduced very quickly. We are currently working on what we did not do well at the time, because we have been very focused on formal aspects, and we are now doing a revision of the content, by the way, in conjunction with the committees of the Rector Conference. It's not an easy task, it's been going on for over a year anyway. Mr harvesto made a criticism that, in such a situation, when the epidemic is really here with us and I would even say that it does not relax, it weaves through our daily lives, along with all its complicated processes, why we deal with such a thing. They're not related. It started a model change process, indeed the first institution of Corvinus was, and then came the institutions that came, and I hope they will come again. In the case of the virus, exactly the academic communities of the university moved in a fantastic way, as a result of which we have our own mask today, we have medicines, we have tests, we have respirators, we only highlight the most important ones. This process continues, and I think that the Hungarian scientific community has passed an extremely good test on a challenge that has not been experienced in a hundred years, and we hope that it will not happen in the next hundred years. When we want to put university communities in a different position, help them with a more dynamic system that can respond more quickly to challenges and give them quality responses, that is our real task, and I think that is what the change of model is about. The composition of the board always comes up. Of course, there could be other curatorial compositions, and I also think that the process with which the curatoriums were compiled was a positive and progressive process. Of course, they can be criticized for their composition, but I think that just after the change of model, the curatoriums can show by their activities that they were worthy or not. So it's everyone's real job to monitor and signal if there's a problem. He's returned to the Theatre and Film case several times. I've told you several times, I've documented it, I've brought all the meetings, even the time and the number. The fact that data that is actually real does not appear objectively in the press is a different thing. The fact that the Vice-Rector, who exercised the Rector's rights, when we had been through at least three negotiations, then, with surprise, the press learned that there would be a change of model. I'm not saying I deny it, but I'm sure we've met three times before, not in private, but in certain forums and in certain communities, but the press didn't bring that down. There were 12 discussions in total, obviously there was no consensus in everything, but otherwise it was accepted after a while and it was not criticized to become a model change. [[19.30]] Then, after that, the situation is not good, so today's situation is not good. I have also said in this House why the decision to give him the rector's title has not been taken in connection with his appointment. I also said that I was positive about it, and my boss was positive about it, but they made the right decision not to become the rector, because I was just liking it, and I said that there were leadership issues. Please, the university's MAB accreditation expires on December 31st. In 2017, there was a monitoring procedure, they asked to postpone it, it happened in 2018, and since then the signature has not taken place. What's this if it's not a management responsibility? So the number one leader remains the rector in my reading and in the law, but it is not only a beautiful, attractive position, but also responsible decisions. For example, the MAB accreditation document has not been signed to date. So when it was decided not to be appointed, and to go through a change of model in the university, there were factors like this and things like... I can't tell you the exact date right now, the point is that it was a concrete new campus construction that the university refused. There are no ideal architectural conditions on the campus of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, it would certainly have been good for them if there were a new campus, or this development and development had been created. Returning to the agricultural university, the change of model creates an agricultural higher education institution with a different focus, which requires very serious resources, on the one hand, in the annual operation, Mr Vice-President referred to it, so I would not even go into detail. They put together a development programme of about HUF 200 billion, which could certainly create an infrastructure situation for Hungarian agricultural education, which would enable one to step up to a change of model, to a change of model that will serve social efficiency, economic efficiency, beyond quality education and research. Andrea Varga-Damm didn't come back, so thank you for her comments; I would not particularly like to enter into legal disputes with her. Thank you again for your supporting comments and criticisms, and I hope that with this, the outcome will be positive. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-198	I too thank the Secretary of State very much for his comprehensive and detailed response to the suggestions, criticisms or even statements of support. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the transfer of certain tasks of the National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre to higher education and the amendment of certain laws on higher education until closure follows. Government referral T/13677. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr József Bódis, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-11-19-199	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the framework of the implementation of the government strategy "Training in Higher Education" with your support, the reform of the higher education institution network has already been carried out in connection with the renewal of the agricultural education area. As a further step of the transformation, we presented two legislative proposals to the Honourable Parliament in order to bring the Hungarian agricultural-higher education into a new development path as a result of the planned measures. The first bill was about the change of model of Szent István University and the related measures with which we aim to re-establish the institution, now known as the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences. This bill also includes the integration of the National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre, which is organically linked to the change of model of the institution, into the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences and other organisations. Dear Parliament, The National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre was set up in 2014 to set up research institutes responsible for creating the professional background of the Hungarian agriculture. NAIK's institutions are embodied in 23 cities, 13 research institutes and 4 companies in the country. Their activities include all segments of domestic agricultural research: from irrigation and crop production to livestock production, from the food industry to forestry, from gardening to dairy, from seed breeding to fisheries research, and from wine-growing research to almost all relevant fields of activity in their day-to-day work. It is important to carry out practical research in the relevant institutions that can be translated into quick, everyday and useful results. It is enough to just remove a domestic pepper paste, jam, bread or even a bottle of wine from the shelf, in which there is most of the intellectual product created in the NAIK's institutional system. The successes of recent years are encouraging and even noticeable at the level of our daily lives, but we cannot be satisfied with these results. It is our duty to do more to further develop domestic agriculture, so the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, has developed a common, new system of cooperation between the Hungarian agricultural industry and higher education. Dear House, In this new system, there is a need for a common use of resources in order to achieve even more significant results. Our aim is to create an institutional system that effectively serves the current and future professional needs of the sector, with the ability to deliver a sufficient amount of and knowledgeable professionals and leaders, based on a technologically advanced infrastructure and economic base. The institutional system will act as an ecosystem centre for the RDI, capable of producing relevant, significant and market-based research results, building on students and researchers, trainers and market participants. According to our plans, the NAIK Institute of Forestry will merge into the organizational unit of the University of Sopron, strengthening this training and research profile of the institution. The NAIK Agricultural Economic Research Institute operates as a company governed by the ownership rights of the Agricultural Ministry. NAIK's research centre in New White Lake is integrated into the organizational unit of the University of Debrecen. The other departments of the National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre continue to function as part of the future Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences, and the Karcagi Research Centre of the University of Debrecen joins this integration. Magyar Kertészeti Porcelainőség Nonprofit Kft. and after the separation it will be integrated into the new Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences and partly into the University of Debrecen. Agrarian education is a key area of education in the social and national sectors of the higher education strategy. Current domestic agricultural education and research are facing a number of challenges. The aim of the Hungarian government is to bring Hungarian agricultural education into line with the needs of the market and Hungarian society, by modernising the institutional system linked to the training, to create a sustainable and modern training system that serves market needs, which can effectively support the development of domestic agriculture. [[19.40]] The agricultural economy needs highly qualified professionals to strengthen Hungary's economic and social competitiveness. Dear Parliament, The renewal of Hungarian higher education for the development of our country and the creation of a new institutional system is a common concern for all of us. That is why I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-19-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Member László Pósán, Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-19-201	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not wish to waste time, I would just like to note that this law has a close link to the law we have just discussed, if you will, this is the other foot of the establishment of the Hungarian University of Agriculture and Life Sciences. It is therefore closely related. We have also said the debate and more general things on this matter, Mr Secretary of State, so I would just like to say that our group is in favour of this and I hope that other factions can support it. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Several of our fellow Members have indicated that they are not taking part in the debate. We are now going to take the floor in the main speakerial round, Mr László Földi, KDNP Group, and I will then be able to give the floor to Mr Attila Mesterházy, of course. [[László Földi from the notary seat goes to his representative's seat.]]
u2020-11-19-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I join in the contribution of my fellow Member, President of the Commission, László Pósán. KDNP also supports this draft law, and we ask all our fellow Members to also support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-19-205	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Here, it seems that there will be no big debate in this proposal, but I would like to state to the record that the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction, as well as the first leg of this law, will not support the other leg, because we do not agree with this transformation. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2020-11-19-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who is likely to respond briefly to what has been said. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-207	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you very much for your reactions. I request your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for the Pannonia University Foundation, the Pannonia University Foundation and the University of Pannonia until closure follows. Government referral T/13675. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr József Bódis, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-19-209	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the floor. Veszprém is one of the cities of Hungary where there are long historical traditions of high-level education. Here, until the destruction of 1276, the prestigious school in Káptany worked, where law was also taught in addition to the free trades. The Hungarian diplomats of the age were also trained here. Then, from 1949, the Budapest University of Technology Faculty of Difficulty worked in the city. In 1951, a decision was taken to set up the University of Pannonia's predecessor, the University of Veszprém Chemical Industry, so there has been an independent university in the future cultural capital of Europe for almost 70 years now. Where higher education has such a tradition, the possibility of renewal and development must be increased. The strategic aim of the Hungarian government is to ensure that Hungarian young people can gain competitive knowledge in higher education, better universities, and receive a valuable degree in modern conditions, so that they can successfully, in the possession of a respected profession or profession, take their place in their personal lives and in the labour market. By increasing the international competitiveness and educational standards of Hungarian higher education, Hungary can become a regional centre by building its quality training infrastructure. Dear Parliament, As is already known to you, Hungarian higher education institutions can only become a major factor in economic development if their training is adapted to real labour market needs. They can be truly competitive if students have access to knowledge that meets social and economic needs in educational institutions. The first steps of this have already been taken, on which I thank you for your support. In order to continue the work started and to achieve our goals, supported by international examples, businesses, future employers, who have competitive knowledge of professional knowledge and market needs, must be involved in the operation of the University of Pannonia, not only in the region, but also in the economic competitiveness and labour market conditions of Hungary as a whole. Dear House, The training offer of the University of Pannonia covers almost all disciplines. The university currently has five faculties, one of which is located in Zalaegerszeg and is present in several cities in the region, including Nagykanizsa and Kőszeg. In order to establish a network of higher education institutions adapted to the regional circumstances of the country and to strengthen the regional role of the University of Pannonia, this year the Honourable Parliament has already decided on the transformation of the institution, which the university has fulfilled. In 2008, the Faculty of Economics received the first higher education award in the country. In 2011, the engineering faculty could take over the golden stage of this recognition. In recognition of its outstanding role in the development of the region, the University won the Royal Region Award in 2009 and the Excellent University was awarded ministerial recognition in 2010. For the period 2013-16, the only higher education institutions in Transdanubia were the engineering staff. As a research university, as a key actor in economic development, the institution promotes successful cooperation between the competition sphere and scientific life in regional and cross-border education and research projects. The innovation activity and corporate relationship system of the institution are also outstanding. The amount of R &amp; D grants awarded to one researcher is the largest in Hungary. The number of parallel research and development projects exceeds 100. With regard to dual training, the number of active contracted market partners has been more than 200 since the start of the programme. The University of Pannonia is a major higher education institution in the Central and Western Transdanubian region, and as such, we have a responsibility to enable the university to develop and develop, to operate in an environment that is as flexible and ideal as possible for it. [[19.50]] On the basis of the above, it is considered that the continuous dynamic development of the University of Pannonia, its commitment to quality education and its regional role in the current system cannot be strengthened, so that the university can be put on a new path in order to move forward. We are confident that the university will be able to take advantage of and accelerate the development of the model change. Dear Parliament, To sum up what has been said so far, I believe that the proposed legislation, the change of model, is an opportunity for the University of Pannonia that we need to ensure that the university can become a crucial centre of intellectual and professional knowledge in the region. That is why I ask you to support the bill on the model change of the University of Pannonia. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-19-211	Thank you, Mr. President. As in the foregoing, I can only confirm that we have had a more general debate on the content of the three coherent, logically-related laws on the first occasion. The current law is essentially about the need to create the foundation for the transformation, the change of model, to which we will also have the property elements that will enable the Pannon University to operate through the change of model. Obviously, the bill that has just been tabled contains the relevant regulators and legal steps. This is not particularly lengthy, and I do not wish to detail them. I would like to conclude by saying that we have a good hope for the faction ourselves that this university will be able to engage in major corporate cooperation that will contribute to the development of the region. All the more so, because, as has been said, the university has a strong industrial profile, and if there is an area in which rapid innovation and serious corporate cooperation are possible today, this is precisely the area of industry. Already in the 2016 government strategy, the change of degrees in higher education, which I merely note in the committee, the opposition also received positively, has already stated that both the Public Finance Act and the Public Employee Act create barriers and difficulties that make fast, market-like connections significantly difficult. In this respect, I therefore believe that this current change of model will be in the interest of the region as a whole. The faction supports it. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-11-19-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, A change of model always gives people a grudge, a fear of what the consequences will be. However, the change of model never goes against people, here in this change of model for students and educators of the University of Pannon. So the KDNP supports this proposal and I ask my fellow Members, the factions, to also support it for the future. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent congressman to apply. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2020-11-19-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, When I read the proposals for redirecting these higher education institutions to the Foundation, I remembered the sentence of Bendeguz from the Departure House that I was always a well-intentioned child, but by the time I got to the end of my intention, it was wrong. I do not dispute that all professionals who participate as academics in the process of this system transformation are doing so in good faith. I do not dispute that they see perspective in the possibility of improving the quality of Hungarian higher education through a different organisational model. But I must say that, since it is apparent that appointments to the Curatoriums are fully policy-based and non-professional, and that most of the politicians appointed have no previous activities known to us, which would make us think that they could improve the quality of the university's operation as university maintainers, that is why there is naturally concern in opposition representatives, which is why there is a distance, and I think that, by the way, what I said in my previous speech, is that the reason for the experience so far is even more invigorating this. T/13675. The proposal aims to establish a Foundation for the University of Pannonia, and the justification is that the Central Transdanubian region would be strengthened and that the participants in training would be further supported. On the one hand, I think that the results of the Central Transdanubian region that have already been achieved are not, in themselves, dependent on university, but the lucky situation of the region that has settled there in the last 25-30 years, or, fortunately, the tourist attraction of the region, its mineral resources, as a result of the private ownership of various industrial capacities that have already been developed, have kept a little more economic success than, say, in other parts of the country. Of course, we would be pleased if a university transformation system would further strengthen the salvation or development of this region, but I am afraid that in itself what is in this proposal, and what will therefore be implemented by the university world, may not give rise to such optimism. I would like to add a sentence to the previous bill, if I may, which is naturally related to this. This is that, at the end of the proposal, there is a table in which Hungary's higher education institutions are listed, and it is broken down to state, non-state, applied science, applied science is not state, and the rest are colleges. After ten years, the Orbán government has reached the point that there is a state college in Hungary. There are only 8 or 9 state colleges left, and the others are all in private hands. Knowing the potentials of economic life, I find it difficult to imagine that so many colleges and universities will be privately operated without the State having to play a greater role in maintaining it. I would be the happiest if there were such a huge profit margin in Hungary in the coming decades that companies could add together the funds needed to finance non-state higher education, but I am concerned that the Hungarian state will be the biggest player in this. If this is the case, then it is already possible to write in such a table which state and which non-state higher education institutions are still likely to pay most of their costs. In this proposal, what has already been proposed is the establishment of a public-interest trust fund, in which the exercise of the founding rights will be the Minister responsible for innovation and technology, and this minister will appoint the Board of Governors. The foundation will be a practitioner of the founding and maintenance rights of the University of Pannonia, and the Trust Foundation will carry out economic activities and thus provide its assets to the University. This means, therefore, that the trust fund will carry out an economic activity which can use the resources generated by the economic activity to operate the university. I have so far looked at the existing board members of existing curators, and if they are going to appoint curators of the same quality to this university, who, to say the least, have not played any role in economic life, I find it difficult to imagine that these foundations will be engaged in an economic activity of the same quality that we do not know yet, from which they can provide funding for universities. [[20.00]] For me, it's a mystique written here, but there must be someone among you who can solve or unravel this mystery for me. The right to maintain the university is the founder's property, which I have said many times here that it is incomprehensible, so maintenance law is something called property law, it has no specific value, and most importantly, it cannot be converted into money, which, in turn, requires money to run universities. It is also proposed that the assets in the management of the legal predecessor's budget body should also belong to the university. I've been hit by my eyes, my ears by your predecessor's budget. If we say that the university was the predecessor of the budget body, then my problem is again who the university is. Because every proposal about the university speaks of it as an independent entity, an independent organization that can acquire and exercise rights and obligations. And they always say that the foundation that the minister creates for the exercise of maintenance rights is an organization independent of the university. But if we're talking about the fact that the university has already had a legal predecessor's budgetary body, then the university is the independent budgetary body with the changed name? And if that's the case, how come it's not a state college? I know that Professor is not a man of science deep in law, but after being a scientist, and whether you like it or not, he had to make scientific conclusions throughout his professional life, so according to the rules of shaping logic, he certainly understands what I'm talking about when I'm talking about this duality. And it can't be seen at all, not for me, but for anyone, how this dual personality relationship, the university and the foundation actually work together, and where the university's money comes from, because it can't be known from economic activity; the wealth package you've received doesn't bring money, but money, because we need to maintain the infrastructure they need to maintain, so it's very likely that they will be able to carry out education in the future in the same way as public funding. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the provisions of entry into force. Paragraphs (2) and (3) of the entry into force provisions are rather odd for me. I do not understand why the various legal steps of this legislation had to be separated in force over time for different dates. In particular, I do not understand why a decree of entry into force on 1 September had to be made for the establishment of the Curatorium of the university for the transfer of founding rights, since on 1 September a school year will begin. I think that if this proposal has already been brought here, and if it becomes a law, and if the new institutional system is already in place in this context, then why does the legislation itself enter into force on the starting day of an educational year, which then creates the big organisational change that will result in the higher education institution operating in a different form. I'm sure you'll like it. I think that it should have been brought forward in order to have everything available to operate the new structure by the starting day of the academic year. I propose to you that you reflect on why this should be postponed until 1 September 2021; while I do not patronise the vote on this proposal or this type of model, but if you are here, if you are going to vote for it, then simply in order to make life easier, I do not think that this entry into force will serve the purpose for which it was created. What I would like to say is that in his expo, Mr. Secretary of State mentioned the very beautiful and successful past of the University of Pannonia, he mentioned the successes with which he showed excellent results both in terms of qualification and in various recognitions. As a Veszprémi, I myself am extremely proud that this university is so respected and is doing such a high level of educational activity, and I ask you and the entire government of education, that if this university has been able to produce such wonderful results from its past, then they are really serving the new model, not to lose any of this, but to make this good news aging. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-19-216	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group, who has also indicated his intention to speak in writing. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-19-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, And the three or four congressmen outside of me in the courtroom who are taking part in the debate. Dear Secretary of State, I am also a Veszprémian, which is why I am particularly interested in this subject, in addition to having an opinion on this in general, and I will also talk about it in my comment. I have a few questions, a few comments based on what you said, and then I would like to say my opinion to the minutes, since we are not going to get into a big debate here in Parliament. The submission states that the government will take care of the further assets of the university or foundation. I don't know, you read the presentation right. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State to do what he's going to do in his summary about what this fortune is going to be and what it's going to be like for the foundation. Here we saw how much money Corvinus University received, and so did the other universities. It would be nice to see exactly what the dowry will be for this model change and transformation. The second is a similar, albeit simpler question as to why Tibor Navracsics informed the university's management that there would be a change of model. To my knowledge, Tibor Navracsics does not work for you, he is not an employee of the Ministry. So why did he bring the news that this transformation was going to happen? Is it just because, as they say and say in Veszprém or are famous, Tibor Navracsics will be president of this foundation, and he will act as if he was actually the head of this foundation before his appointment? So I would ask Mr Secretary of State why they are sending messages through Tibor Navracsics to the University of Veszprém or University of Pannonia, and that the statement that Tibor Navracsics will be appointed president of the University of Pannonia Foundation is correct. I'd like to comment on some of Mr. Secretary's thoughts. He said he needed this model change because he couldn't get the university to move on. I'm sad to hear that, because then there would be a lot to get out of the state's jurisdiction, and a lot to put into foundation, if that were true. And you also said that this would be the ideal form for the operation of the University of Pannonia. Perhaps this statement is a little nuanced by the fact that the rector of the university made it clear that they did not ask for this transformation. So if the leaders in it, the leaders at the head of an organization, as you have said in connection with the recent amendment of the law, if the management of that university believes that there is no need for this transformation, because they did not ask for it, then they probably feel that they can develop, even within the framework that previously determined their operation. The other is that you mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, that through this model change, the university will become or become a centre of spiritual knowledge in the region. I would like to amend Mr Secretary of State: no, Mr Secretary, this university is already the region's intellectual knowledge centre and has a lot of results, as you have already listed. So not from this change of model or even from the appointment of Tibor Navracsics as foundation president, this is not why the University of Pannonia becomes an intellectual knowledge center in the region. [[20.10]] I'd like to argue a little with Andrea Varga-Damm with a sentence from her comment. He said that he did not dispute the good intentions of the people who initiated this transformation and went through it, because they must be guided by good intentions that they want better higher education, they want good for the colleagues, teachers and university citizens and students who work there. I would say, Congresswoman, that, yes, I do doubt the good intentions of these leaders, these politicians. It seems to me that this change of model is more of a screen for you, a common custom on the side of fidesz politics, on the Prime Minister's policy side, always raises up a screen that may seem attractive to you from a distance, and then as we approach one another, as we look behind the screen, the ambition of power becomes clear, in many cases the financial interest becomes clear, often the intention of ideological influence becomes clear. I think that behind this change of model is either money or ideological influence or some kind of power issue. I think it's all because these foundations will have enormous wealth. On the other hand, they're cementing their own politicians into these foundations. I don't exactly see how you can't find a lot of skilled professionals other than politicians, there's some fidesz politician in every foundation. In addition, politicians who are active politicians. So it's not that someone once worked as a professor emeritus for Fidesz, it's that they're going to put active politicians in these positions. I'd add they'd have other things to do to deal with, since they have other jobs. In addition, this will be cemented two thirds. This makes it clear that this is also a matter of power technology, and that wealth and self-management make it clear that this is also an economic interest. And the third is also quite clear that they simply want to influence Hungarian higher education ideologically, they want to involve these universities in their own interests, and they want to steal them in a simpler way. And this is very dangerous because they can influence the future of Hungarian youth in the long term. And I don't think it's such a decent, decent effort, which is just the best education for poor children. Oh, my gosh. He has in mind that fidesz ideologists and fidesz politicians should be cemented by two thirds, so that even if they lose the election, this influence will remain for you, and you can represent your own interests, your own ideology, and carry it through these foundations. After all, as Mr Secretary of State has often said, what a fantastic thing it will be to have these foundations independent of the government at all times and thus increase the autonomy of these universities. Here, other fellow State Secretary has also given a long example of this in recent times, that this is what makes the autonomy actually greater. Depends on how you look at it, of course. If you look at it this way, you can say in principle that they are out of state care, and this could increase autonomy in the form of a foundation, but that would require people in these board of trustees who are a guarantee of this if they are thinking about changing models, not fidesz politicians. So, it is not surprising, as the speakers of the MSZP said earlier on the other agendas, that it will not surprise the Fidesz Member, who is sitting alone in Parliament, and also Mr State Secretary, that the MSZP Group will not support this initiative, just as it did not support the former. And all we see in this change of model is a fidesz push, a branch of a culture fight, which doesn't really work in the direction of science or not in the direction of culture, not science, but in the direction of university, higher education and, of course, a little in the direction of science. You're under a full-time attack, one of which is a change of model, all you need to see in this is that you're simply trying to steal this, and you're trying to get it into your own interests. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2020-11-19-218	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Member László Pósán, Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-19-219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to say to Andrea Varga-Damm that these foundations have already been included in the regulation in the previous model change and conclude a five-year financing contract. So it should not be presumed that for just one year, whatever is insured, they have a predictable vision in this regard, which can then, of course, be renewed, and so on. Why is that necessary? We have said on several occasions that the public employment relationship, in particular the Public Finance Act, represents a type of cumbersomeness and limitation for higher education institutions, which makes cooperation with the economic sphere and companies significantly difficult. However, this would be very necessary now because, in the present circumstances, it is possible to see that universities are able to obtain much more resources from market cooperation than from budgetary resources. If we try to reduce or remove these obstacles, this may be exponentially larger. I would just like to point out that the University of Veterinary Medicine, which has already undergone this model change, made much more money on the market even before the change of model than the actual budgetary resource. Now this gives him an even greater opportunity. The University of Debrecen also has much more money from the market than from the budget, and it has not yet undergone such a change of model, and we can only perceive the difficulties it brings. So that's where I see my fantasy. As a result, I would also like to tell Attila Mesterházy that there is a good intention, there is a clear plan to link innovation, knowledge to companies, and from this you create a conspiracy theory that reminds me of the novel by Foucault-inga, Umberto Eco, that from a washing ticket a general across world history is being created, a great conspiracy. So that's not what this is about. The entry into force of September 1 was asked by Andrea Varga-Damm. I would just like to note that there is nothing evil about this, that every change of senior management in universities takes place during the summer, precisely so that by the start of the school year everything will be fine. So, obviously, it has to be adapted, and in this sense, it is right. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2020-11-19-221	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to tell my fellow Member, Mr László Pósán, that I believe you, by the way, to believe that you truly believe this, as you say. I wasn't referring to you when you think I'm making conspiracy theories, but I think I'm more realistic, much more realistic than you are on this issue. I don't think real motivations are what you're talking about. And once again, I don't doubt your goodwill, because you're here right now to discuss this bill. If you've thought of a quote, let me tell you another one. It's kind of the man's feeling when he talks to these college leaders that they feel like in the old joke, Comrade, we're here for you, not against you. So I think, indeed, that raises a lot of problems, as I have just said, but I wouldn't waste time. The market cooperation that he was talking about: the university of economics has always been able to raise much more money than the state has given him, but there are certain universities where these are possible to a lesser extent. And I think that, indeed, as you have said, there has been scope for market cooperation. So this is probably not the main driver of why this should be changed, but rather what I said is that they simply want to take it down for ideological and pragmatic power reasons, because they are afraid of losing the next election. In conclusion, Mr President, let me make a record of Dr. László Pósán, Andrea Varga-Damm and I were only involved in this important debate... [[Dr. László Pósán: And Laszlo Földi!]] I'm sorry, and László Earth colleague. I just said that there are four of us in the room because it seems like there's no one else that's excited about this question. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-19-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[20.20]]
u2020-11-19-223	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that a debate on this bill has opened up, even if we have started repeating earlier ones, but I think that the issue of higher education in Veszprém and the matter of the University of Pannonia deserves at least a few important sentences. I am still grateful to Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea that she does not contest my positive intentions. I think I have repeatedly explained my attitude towards model changes, which is not new, which looks back at least four years closely, with a slightly broader interpretation for a decade. Believe me, I know exactly what it's like for a public higher education institution as a budgetary institution to meet the challenges, but I wouldn't bore the people present with it, but I would be honored to answer the questions asked. The question of funding has been raised, where will the university get money? At the same time as the model changes, we have also developed a new method of financing, which will become three-legged instead of the current so-called one-legged funding, which is basically based on education, which is also about an infrastructure maintenance leg in addition to the educational leg, as well as supporting research and scientific work, in terms of performance. Besides, the educational function will also be funded through performance. The foundations that we create, including what we set up in connection with the University of Pannonia, are public foundations, and will remain a university after the change of model, for example, the University of Pannonia, which also carries out public tasks and is financed by the government, of course. In addition, what opens up a different leeway for him is that there will be a different way of public procurement, another way of managing assets, another way of doing innovation moves, so to speak, from a university undergoing a model change, including the University of Pannonia. That the founder's rights cannot be converted into money, I accept, but the founder's right is here at the state, so at the Ministry, this right will be granted to the board of trustees... I'm sorry, I'm talking about your maintenance, your maintenance, so the maintenance rights will be given to the foundation at the same time as the change of model. The founder's right will be handed over by the Minister to the Foundation and the Boards in a later period, simply because if there are malfunctions, this is the only real possibility of intervention for the Ministry. The 1st of September is an important date, by the way, the Day of Hungarian Higher Education, the Day of the Founding of the First Hungarian University, and I think that it is a very respectful date; but it is not only about this story, but also about giving the university time to prepare for the change of model. The question was why Tibor Navracsics brought the news to the university. This topic was mentioned earlier, and I said that Tibor Navracsics did not take it, but I spoke to the Chancellor, the Chancellor, about the possibility of changing models at the beginning of the year, following a scientific conference. The fact that they met with Government Commissioner Navracsics, who, by the way, became the number one leader of regional development in that region, I consider it a good thing; what they were talking about, I was not present, I don't know, I don't know, this is probably what they were talking about. I can't tell you who's gonna be president of the board right now. There were many, many suggestions about previous model changes before the composition of the Boards and the names of the presidents were made public; there were rumors about the final decision, where they did not. But the point of the process is that when the law, specifically the law of the model change in connection with the University of Pannonia, is voted by the Parliament, then it becomes realistic to talk about the real composition of the curatoriums, or it is obvious that they must be made public. Congressman Mesterházy asked me what additional assets could be added to the university. It is the subject of a serious consideration and examination of the assets that can successfully support the activity that appears at a model-shifting university, I think we can say in its function, when it becomes absolutely clear, then, obviously, the Parliament will know for sure; and at the moment, the assets that are necessary for its basic function and its operation are added to the university, right now, I think, as trustees, these assets are in the university. I can honestly say that there is no question in higher education that does not have a political impact, obviously there is also a question of model changes, but I sincerely believe and say that model change is not a political issue, it is a professional question, a university, a management of a higher education institution. I am glad that if we look much more positive today as a maintainer, whether it is the Secretary of State or the Ministry, and in fact I always wonder why many serious people, criticizing the change of model, consider it a bad step, that if the state moves its role one step further away, it will move away with maintenance functions while keeping the umbilical cord in funding right now with this three-legged funding system. You can be a good guy and a bad guy, good intentions and bad intentions, and I think that changing models is an important professional issue. What your success will be depends on how the respective Curatoriums and the community of the university find the cooperation that will result in more young and academically qualified and capable of major scientific productions, how should I put it? appears in this institution. I think, if you look at the model change from here, it's a desirable, important step, so I ask you to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-19-224	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. [[20.30]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have an after-the-meet speech. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Kálló, Jobbik Group: What do the iron workers deserve? It's an address. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2020-11-19-225	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The shift's not over. And if the shift's not over, it's not polite to go home. Still, when I look around the Parliament's horseshoe, I look at the time, it's 20.30 minutes, and I can barely see one or two of the 133 bravest Members, and I can at least see the President on the bench. That's pretty tough. I'm asking you to imagine a world. Now let's jump to Dunaújváros and imagine that we are working at the Ironworks. The Ironworks. And imagine that our shift didn't end, but we're going home. An hour or two before the shift's over. Well, what do we get? Fired, disciplined. Iron workers keep working their shifts under tough and harsh conditions. And what have you gotten for this hard work in the last three months? 1. The collective agreement has been terminated in an unprecedented manner. 2. They got paid in two installments in October. 3. They got paid in two installments in November. The other benefits they don't get, not to mention. And what did the Hungarian government do? The sky in one given world is nothing. Therefore, the municipality, quite rightly, has, in accordance with its right under the Fundamental Law, sent an appeal to the government. In a few points, the municipality summarized how to help the Iron Works during these critical times. What was the answer from Minister Gergely Gulyás? It's a short list of letters that the ironworks are a private company, so it's not up to the government to help it. Well, congratulations. For the record, quite rightly, the government is now helping the tourism sector. The government pays 80% of the people working in the tourism sector if they meet certain conditions. I'll ask you what percentage of the companies working in the tourism department and sector are private companies. I bet it's 99 percent. Yet the government helps them, and the Ironworks refuse to help. And what do they do in spite of that? I've collected three passes that were thought to be supported by the Economic Security Fund, despite the outbreak of the Crown Virus. Three passes: HUF 2400 million to support space activities, HUF 2100 million to prepare a hunting exhibition, for government communication and consultation, HUF 1900 million. If we added these three items, I would say that we could have secured the salary of the iron workers for about six months. And you've lost us with a couple of serial letters that the state has no obligation to help us. But let's move on. The Vasmű is not only important to Dunaújváros. Ironworks are not only important to Fejér County. Ironworks are important to the whole country. It provides the livelihood of over 8,000 families. The MÁV Cargo provides 15% of the turnover of the Iron Works. If there is a problem in the Iron Works, there is not only a problem in Dunaújváros, there is not only a problem in the region, there is not only a problem in Fejér County, but there will be trouble in the whole country. It is better to acknowledge this, honourable decision-makers. If the factory lives, the city lives. But I'd go on with that sentence. If the factory lives, the county lives. If the factory lives, the country lives. There is no leading European country that does not have a large iron company. We ask the government to use the famous Russian connections that are available. And we ask the government to finally do something for the ironworks. We're tired of the phrase that we're going to create as many jobs as it will go away during the plague. How will they create so many jobs when the Ironworks close? There's a disease in the country, this disease has been caught by the Ironworks, but it can be cured. Well, get him out of it. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-19-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:30 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
