u2020-04-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I welcome you all with great respect on Easter Tuesday, and welcome all those who are monitoring our work today. The 14th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Bence Tordai will be in charge of the meeting. The speeches before the agenda will follow. Following today's speeches before the agenda, it is expected that from 12:30 a.m. to 14:30 a.m., immediate questions and answers will take place and then after the agenda. Minister Péter Szijjártó applied for a pre-meeting speech on behalf of the government. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor before the agenda today to inform Parliament about an important aspect of the fight against the pandemic, namely the protection on the health front and, above all, its means. We know exactly, we've been through it in the last few days, nothing's ever been like it was before, even Easter holidays have been different than usual. One of the very important aspects of protection against the world epidemic is that doctors, nurses, policemen and soldiers who take care of our health and safety can do this with the best possible means, so one of our most important tasks is to protect the protagonists of protection. I respectfully inform my fellow Members that the import of medical protection equipment is continuous, and the air bridge between China and Hungary is unstoppable, and so it was during Easter. I respectfully inform you that in the last week, 26 aircraft have arrived at Budapest with the necessary defence equipment. A total of 13 million 207 thousand masks, 6 million 203 thousand protective suits, gloves, isolation cloaks, caps, face protection plexi and 155 thousand tests, and 101 respirators arrived in Hungary. I respectfully inform you that we have a contract to purchase 148 million 700 thousand pieces of masks, of which 46 million 855 thousand have arrived. We have a contract for 3 million 305 thousand tests, of which 352 thousand have already arrived. We have a contract for 47 million 754,000 protective equipment, 20 million 292 thousand of which have already arrived. I also respectfully inform my fellow Members that this week will continue the arrival of transport aircraft in Budapest, which will be equipped with new protective equipment. I would also like to inform you that we have an agreement with both the Kazakh and Azerbaijani governments that transporters from China to Budapest will be treated and allowed to fly as quickly as possible, both at Nur-Sultan and Baku airport. I also respectfully inform you that many countries have asked us for help, and we have given some of them. So we helped Serbia, Northern Macedonia, Slovenia and Croatia with masks and protective clothing, in the spirit of our responsible neighbourhood policy. Please remember that there is a strong link in the development of the health situation in Central Europe: the better our neighbours are fighting, the better we can get. So we have helped these neighbouring or almost neighbouring countries southeast of us in the Western Balkans, and we have also helped the Italians, who are most likely to be in the worst position, with 100,000 masks and 5,000 protective suits, at the request of the Italian Government. I would also like to inform you that in cross-border areas where Hungarians live, they also face serious challenges in terms of supply of assets. All Hungarian communities across the border have made a request to the Hungarian government, and given that we believe that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, we have launched our shipments at the end of the last week, which have arrived everywhere except for Transcarpathia, Transylvania, Slovakia, Slavonia and Muravidék, with a total of 710 thousand masks and 32,000 protective suits, as well as 200,000 gloves for the work of hospitals and doctors working there to ensure that Hungarian communities across the border are also safe. Finally, I would like to inform you that it is much shorter than the list of countries seeking our assistance, but there is also a list of countries that have helped us. Before the meeting, I concluded a video conference with the Minister for Trade of Uzbekistan, who indicated that the aircraft bringing 500 thousand masks to Hungary by crossing Baku to help the Uzbek government for our country. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience and thank you for letting me know. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Now the factions have the opportunity to respond within a 2-2 minute time frame. Accordingly, I give the floor; Mr László György Lukács of the Jobbik Group first applied. Here you go.
u2020-04-14-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President; Minister, and you have the report. In addition, allow us to express our thanks to those who contribute to defence, in particular to the purchase of defence equipment. As the figures show, there is still room for improvement and development, but we can see that there is already a stock of tools available that raises more basic problems that I think the Minister will have to answer, despite the fact that this is not a question-and-answer genre. We would like to draw attention to the importance of masking. Minister, did you see the opportunity for every citizen of Hungary to have a mask, by giving it to them by the state, and by making it mandatory to wear it in public or public places? That's what Jobbik wants, and that's what we encourage the government to do. The other thing that goes beyond the masks is the question of tests. You have also mentioned tests regularly. It's a very sad fact, and let me draw your attention to it, and please pay attention to this, so that public media doesn't typically spread the opposite of science, that the density of testing and the importance of testing are essentially false news. The tests are really important. We recommend that existing test flocks be used specifically to screen and test the homes of residential, social institutions, social homes or people with disabilities, because we can see that these groups are among the most vulnerable in Western Europe, and even the large number of deaths can be attributed to this. [[11.10]] Allow me, Minister, to draw your attention to one more problem. You're probably in government meetings, but there's one person who wouldn't be there, and that's Minister Miklós Kásler. Minister Miklós Kásler even used Easter to save the director of two very important hospitals. The whole media was full of it, and I just don't think people can accept that in an emergency, one of the government's health officials is busy firing hospital directors. We understand that you want to take action, but don't do personal smackdowns or revenge, especially with two very important institutions. As a last comment, we would be pleased not to have air bridges from which masks are exported, and to export protective equipment beyond the China-Budapest air bridge. It is necessary in Hungary, to wear a mask at home and to test it at home. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-14-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató.
u2020-04-14-5	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, I think that he will tell this government everything about his health policy and his health management, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now reporting on the defence against the Crown Virus in Parliament for many years, and that he is not once the Minister of Human Resources, which is supposed to be responsible for health. Because the only thing you can boast about is what you achieve abroad, what you can boast about, what you take out of the country, what you can boast about, what you bring into the country, but not what happens in this country. We know that, although they give little information about him, that one in eight of the infected are medical workers, and that is not for nothing. At the beginning of the epidemic, when experts, the Medical Chamber and opposition parties drew attention to the fact that if health workers do not receive protective equipment, there will be extremely serious consequences, then here in the House, at the meeting of the Welfare Committee, the government confidently said that there are millions of masks, there are enough masks, let us not worry. Now it turns out there aren't enough masks, there weren't enough masks, we have to bring them now. And no misunderstanding, I appreciate the efforts of diplomacy, those working in Hungarian diplomacy, in order to make up for this deficit afterwards, but it is not possible to undo months' omissions. As regards the protection of Hungarians across the border, let me draw attention to the fact that today a Hungarian living in Romania is safer than a Hungarian living in Hungary, because the Romanian government is testing. Hundreds of thousands of tests have already been carried out in Romania and the Minister of Health was acquitted when a mass infection of doctors and health workers began when the coronal virus appeared in hospitals. I recommend this to the Hungarian government at home, to test health workers, to test social workers, to test the institutions and to excuse the unfit health minister; to be a minister who can come into the House and report on the defence. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-04-14-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. We also have a two-minute speech from the Group of the Dialogue, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, Thank you very much for the report. I also find it a little odd that the Minister of Foreign Affairs regularly reports here on the health epidemic, but we are pleased that we are getting much more information than the Minister of Health. I hope you're not just doing this to tell CNN how Parliament works after that. The quality of masks remains a question, so please continue to pay attention to quality assurance. Minister of Foreign Affairs said that the supply of assets is continuous. We would like it to be in the order that the health institutions and then the Hungarian citizens, which my better fellow Member has raised, are able to make sure that everyone has a mask, that the mask is available in the pharmacy, and then we should send help if we can, to Hungarians across the border, and then give support to other countries. Our request is to keep that order. I would like to raise another problem or question. We were pleased to hear that production at the Audi factory has resumed. That's what we're happy about, because it's good to have people working. Our request is that we pay particular attention to this by the doctor, or whose territory it is for people to work safely there, should not be at risk of reinfection. I would like to raise one more problem with EU support, and here there is a long debate on the 2000 billion. The government says it's zero forints, obviously we think that's not true. If the truth is in the middle somewhere, then my question is how much of these contracts you plan to transfer to your defense. I'm sure there are contracts that can be regrouped, because now the first and most important challenge is to stop this epidemic. How much money is this gonna be? Thank you very much.
u2020-04-14-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mr László Keresztes, leader of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your information. I would also like to begin this reaction by thanking everyone who is taking part in these important tasks in the procurement of assets. We hear millions of numbers from week to week, whether in respect of the masks and other devices delivered, but at the same time we can see from the speeches and the Hungarian public speech that there are still serious problems with distribution within the country. I would like to ask the government that, if there are already millions of protective equipment, say masks in Hungary, it should reach the population, the pharmacy, this should not be a missing item. So let people feel that there really is a result, not having to get it at a huge price through various advertisements. I also think it is very important, we hear quality problems from a lot of places, whether 600,000 masks were transported from China to the Netherlands, which did not have the right quality, or 300,000 defective tests were passed by the Czechs. Is there any guarantee or progress in this matter that there will be no such problem in the quality of the assets delivered from China? Similarly, an important question, Prime Minister, has said that 7500-8000 respirators will be needed, that they will be obtained in time, and that quality is obviously important here too. I think it is a very important step, and we agree that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, that we can help Hungarians living across the border, and I find it very shocking, and I regret that this has become such an internal political polarity. Unfortunately, I've read quite amazing and hateful comments on social media sites, and I'm sorry about that. I think that everyone here should show greater fairness, all Hungarian people, and it is true that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. And indeed, Minister, I am pleased that you are here, and you are the most active member of the government in the epidemiological situation. Therefore, because you have provided us with information, I would also like to give you information or information, and, if possible, to send a message to the members of the government, Prime Minister. A very, very important issue regarding the Budapest-Belgrád railway line has unfortunately failed to answer important questions in the debate last week, so I ask the Prime Minister, if he believes that it is not against the Hungarian national interests, that a thousand billion-dollar project will be launched during an epidemic, and if he thinks he has nothing to hide, then not to encrypt these contracts, but to make them public and to prove that there is any meaning to this project, especially in such an epidemiological situation. Thank you very much, and thank you for your patience, Mr President.
u2020-04-14-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Here comes Mr László Szakács from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[11.20]]
u2020-04-14-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, First of all, I must thank those who are working to get as many tools to Hungary as possible, as well as those who work for patients in the first line of health care. However, what we need to see here is that there is no problem now that the tools we use arrive in Hungary, I see much more problems in terms of use. Last weekend, on Easter weekend, we saw that it was not the stable hand and the strong hand that governed us, but the one that said that we were subtracting those who were seriously ill, but who were not infected with the coronal virus, and we also saw that they had replaced directors in health care. At this moment, we do not consider this to be right or even expressly wrong. On the other hand, I must ask Minister where these masks are now, where these protective equipment is. Maybe it's just a bad rumor that when the government's orders arrived, but at the moment in private health, the tests started for money? These tests can be purchased between 9-15 thousand forints. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You are not in government now!]] In fact, we weren't expecting the Minister this morning, you weren't supposed to be talking about it today, but we were expecting Minister Palkovics. After all, the economic rescue package, announced two weeks ago by Viktor Orbán, has been leaking information for two weeks, dripping information, but Minister Palkovic does not come to the meeting of the Economic Commission, does not report how they want to solve the unemployment problem between 4500 and 6 thousand a day, does not report how they want to extend job search support to nine months, how they want to provide money to people. We think it might be just as important right now. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-04-14-12	Mr Lőrinc Nacsa is coming from the KDNP Group.
u2020-04-14-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thank you for the continuous information that you and your fellow ministers have been doing here in the Parliament and in the committees in the last few weeks and days, on behalf of the Hungarian Government. Thank you very much to everyone who is involved in the fight against the epidemic, and in particular to those who have not rested during the Easter holidays, have not been able to spend time with their families, but have worked, have ensured continuity of procurement and care, so the pilots, logistics workers, customs officials, the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you to everyone who has been involved in this work. Today's low point is that Jobbik demands that Hungarians across the border should not have masks. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr László Lukács wants a complete export ban. They have failed to distinguish themselves from the Democratic Coalition in any way, but we are used to that. We are particularly pleased that the Dialogue watched CNN, and finally heard facts from Minister Szijjártó. Thank you so much for learning from the interview. My MSZP colleague asked me if the public procurements had been transferred to private companies. Mr President, Mr President, this is not the MSZP government; public procurement and public wealth are not in the hands of private companies or private people. During your time, this was not the case in our time of government. Minister, I would like to thank you for giving the tools to Hungarians across the border. I think that, now that the borders are closed, national policy is also moving forward in a difficult field; it must be felt that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, that they should feel that they can count on the mother country, because either during the repatriation or during Hungarians abroad, we must express that every Hungarian can rely on Hungary, the Hungarian state, wherever it is in the world. That is why I think it is very important that, if we have the opportunity to do so, we should expand these shipments later, because now, when the borders are closed, it is particularly important that these communities should not be left alone, without support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Máté Kocsis is the leader of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, First of all, let me join the ranks of those who thanked all the foreign and diplomatic staff working on the procurement of protective equipment. Let me join those who go to CNN. For CNN's sake, I would like to point out that you are seeing a live parliamentary broadcast, it is not recording, and it was not called for the sake of Minister, but for the meeting of the Hungarian Parliament. It was also nice to hear that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was primarily not criticised, but thanked, even by the opposition. After the Minister has no opportunity to react, let me make some clarifications. The first is that, before being mentioned in Romania, look at the equipment there and that the first step of the Romanians was to turn to the IMF. It is not clear to them how the cost of protection will be financed. This is not the case in Hungary. The other is that in private warehouses, you can't land a shipment that the State Department is bringing in or bringing in. They're in the central warehouse of the State Health Services Center, and there's no formal way they're going to go to private companies, and I'm asking you not to spread that. Thirdly, with regard to claims on costs, I would like to point out that the Hungarian Government has not said on any occasion that, even in the case of defence costs, it cannot solve foreign purchases because of a lack of resources. What I would like to thank you for, Minister, is the organization of the many thousands of Hungarians stranded abroad. It is also clear that our fellow countrymen who were trapped abroad could be primarily Hungarian citizens in the crisis, and the second time they were able to become European citizens. The help was given to them by Hungary. I would also like to underline that it has become clear that, in this emergency, Member States' solutions have come to the fore in Europe, as opposed to common solutions in Europe. Thank you, Minister, for your work and for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. We are now moving on to the speeches before the agenda announced in writing. Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio has applied for a speech before the agenda on topical issues. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, To successfully combat the epidemic and its harmful consequences, change and change are needed. The fidesz policy of the last ten years, which was based on attacking the opposition and helping only a narrower social group, will now be limited. We have two suggestions. One is that it is not the opposition that must be defeated, but the virus. The other is that as many Hungarians as possible should be helped, not just by a narrow group. I know that soon one of the Fidesz Secretarys of State will stand up and attack Christmas Gergő. Fidesz media throughout the entire Easter weekend was about this in the spirit of Christian values. It is telling that 20 minutes of the half-hour of Fidesz news coverage in the epidemic dealt with the opposition. So there's the epidemic, the epidemic is raging, but the Fidesz media, the Fidesz faction leader, and even the Prime Minister, are busy with the smearing of the opposition. On the one hand, it is difficult to accept a lecture from a government, a head of government whose health minister has not been able to come into Parliament throughout the epidemic and report on the state of defence. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] Where's the Minister of Health during the plague, besides firing hospital directors? Do you really want to lecture us? On the other hand, as regards the slanders about nursing homes: on March 20, when there was no disease in nursing homes, the Mayor asked, among other things, Sarah Botond, the Budapest government commissioner, not to send anyone back without testing, to ensure that those who were sent back from hospitals to nursing homes without testing are kept separate. This was rejected on the basis of a government provision that this was technically unfounded, and even Sarah Botond found the testing to be professionally unfounded and too costly. What did the Prime Minister say? It means there's no upper barrier to defense. Looks like you do. After that, I don't know how they got to make the mayor responsible for the diseases in nursing homes. But let's follow this diabolical fidesz logic. In Borsodnádasdon, in the home of state-owned elderly people, with the mayor of Fidesz, the institution of 41 people, unfortunately, more than half have been affected. What about this one? Who's responsible for this? Or the whole country for diseases? This case also shows that you are using a significant part of your energy not to fight the virus, but to fight the opposition. That doesn't make him any less sick. And while the spread of the epidemic accelerated last week, deaths have increased, thousands of people have lost their jobs while you are pouring a lawscunam into Parliament. I'm sure it's for CNN to see how Parliament works. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yeah, sure!]] [[11.30]] The encryption of the Belgrade-Budapest railway line, the abolition of the ban on changes to the City Park by Mária Schmidt, and the proposals that have nothing to do with defence. I would like to clarify again: in Parliament, we should discuss how we can best defend ourselves against this epidemic, how we can help people who lose their jobs or have already lost their jobs. Tens of thousands of people working in the service industry, in tourism, in catering have already lost or will lose their jobs. What they've received so far is nothing, so take it well, to quote László Parragh, that so many people have been ruined in the last few months that we can't do anything about it. If the government can't do anything about it, at least listen to the opposition's proposals. When we talk about basic income for crisis management, you say that this is not necessary, because there will be enough jobs. But there will be jobs when there is demand, there will be demand if people have money. That is why money is now being given to those in all EU countries who lose their jobs except in Hungary. When we're talking about a three-month extension of unemployment benefits, you say it's free, three months from now. But anyone who says that doesn't know what it's like to get up in the morning and see that I only have two months left to find a job and put some bread on the family table. Nine months of security goes to all Hungarians! When you refer to the 2008 crisis as a reason for rejecting opposition proposals, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that most of the parties that are here and make proposals were not yet formed in 2008. The other was that it was a completely different type of crisis, it was an economic crisis, but this is about something else. It's expected that once this epidemic is over, the economy will start again. That's why you have to give people money. When you're telling us that we want credit and restraint, it's kind of weird that you're taking on the Russian loan, the 3000 billion, and that's okay with Paks, and you're taking the Chinese loan on the Belgrade train line, that's okay. Dear Parliament, In this difficult situation, a responsible government does not attack the opposition and does not want to secure its own power, but wants to help people. You should do the same. Thank you.
u2020-04-14-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, He mentioned several things here, and I try to respond to them in a row. You claimed that the Prime Minister did not provide information on the protection against the epidemic. He has provided information on two occasions and has announced several measures here. So I'm asking you not to make false claims here or outside the walls of this House. On the other hand, as far as CNN is concerned, if you hadn't falsely claimed that Parliament would have suspended its operation, CNN wouldn't have made any mistakes, so you have a huge responsibility. When you say that the economic action plan is only about a narrow social group, please tell me who you're thinking of. The credentials who don't have to pay their bills? The 80,000-cat contractor? For employers who will have to pay less employers' taxes from July and who do not have to pay their employer's contributions for 3 months? Thinking about them? Or do you mean the pensioners, Your Honour? Or do you mean the family members whose rights are extended? If you do not support these measures, please stand before them and say to their faces, which measure you do not support. As far as the fight against the epidemic is concerned, it is a serious achievement that the spread of the epidemic has been slowed down in recent weeks. Thanks to this, we are still in the stage of group illness, and we must be prepared to enter the stage of mass diseases, which also means that the hardest is still to come. We are in a fierce race with time, and we need to take a step ahead in order to avoid overloading the health system. This is the purpose of the supplies of equipment mentioned by the Minister, several aircraft landed in Budapest at the end of the week, with millions of protective equipment. And that's why the government decided to extend the curfew while giving the municipalities the opportunity to put in place more stringent measures, and this weekend's experience shows that they have used it. We would like to thank those who have complied with the rules of distance not only on the holiday weekend, but also in the last few weeks, and who have fought in the front line of the fight against the epidemic during Easter days. If you have already raised the question of the elderly home on Pesti Road, I would also like to respond to this, even because we know from international examples that these homes are particularly exposed to the epidemic. The home in question, honourable Member, has been put at the centre of attention because there have been big questions about the fact that the capital has done everything in its power to protect the people who live there. A study is being conducted on the continued presence of specialist care in the past period. In any case, the chief physician had to make decisions, giving instructions for a continuous medical presence, and providing continuous training and training for workers, and thirdly using the required disinfectants. That's what we see, and that's what you're saying, and that's why you're pointing fingers from the city hall, as usual, towards the government. This is sad because everyone rightly expects Gergely Christmas to finally take on the sarcasm of action and do everything to protect the capital institutions. It is no exaggeration to expect you not to hide behind Facebook posts, not to hide in the shadow of Facebook posts, not to point fingers at others, but to exercise the responsibility you received from voters on October 13th. This mandate was not given to counter-responsible PR actions, but to act, if necessary, to drive, and if there is a crisis, that is twofold true. It is in the interests of all of us, honourable Member, that the plague should not escape in Budapest. The government will give us all the help we can, and we will give you all the help we can to defend it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-14-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Mr Schmuck, from the Group of the LMP, spoke before the agenda with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-14-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Many people still think that the coronal virus epidemic is a natural disaster, and when it does, we'll be back to normal. The only reason why we can't come back is because, as Viktor Orbán said yesterday, a series of epidemics can be expected in the coming period. Last week Pope Francis spoke about the fact that the coronal virus epidemic is one of nature's responses to completely ignoring environmental crises and problems. I must add that we are not only ignoring environmental crises, but also the division of societies, social justice and the order and functioning of our world today. If we do not want to live in fear, if we do not want to face a series of epidemics, if we do not want the economic crises that follow the epidemics to cause millions to lose their jobs and become insecure, then radical changes will be needed. The downsides of capital-driven globalisation without barriers have come to light. The catastrophic damage to our environment, the deepening of the ecological crisis and the climate crisis are linked to the free movement of capital. Capital has put its hands on places in the world where natural resources can be produced cheaply, where labour is cheap and environmental rules are loose. Most of the jobs created by capital investors have made workers the service of conveyor belts in order to increase efficiency. The people flowed into the city, the local community spaces were empty, the rural environment remained without caring hands. [[11.40]] Capital-driven globalisation has taken self-determination too far from the hands of nation states and local communities. As a green politician, I believe that less globalisation and more localisation will be needed in the future. Unfortunately, Hungary will be among those countries that will pay a very heavy price for the failed economic policy of the Orbán government. The Hungarian economy was completely exposed to foreign capital, multinational companies, foreign markets. For many years, wages have been kept low, leaving families without reserves, which means that the country is now facing a social crisis. In parentheses, even now, during the epidemic, the government is sacrificing itself to neoliberal economic policy. Right now, he's trying to market the cultural sector and evacuate the status of civil servant with some immunity. Dear House, It's time to face the failure of the Orbán government's economic paradigm. The economic paradigm which unilaterally based its economic performance on the automotive industry, vehicle manufacturing and tourism has failed. It is easy to see that in the crisis people will give up on cars, and the demand for tourism will also decrease dramatically. The government's actions to date show that it does not think at all about developing an alternative economic policy. You do not understand, you do not want to understand that the task is not to save a faulty, dead-end economic structure, but to create a more resilient, new economic structure against crises. Food, energy, water, housing, clothing, household care is always needed, both in crisis and outside. A flexible, crisis-resistant economy must not lack self-determination in these areas. The elements of a truly sustainable economic structure are linked to a system in the circular economy and their competitiveness is given by their common strength. The interconnected economy is a social economy and a solidarity economy, where crisis-resistant economic elements protect crisis-sensitive people in times of crisis. Dear House, A substantive debate on the creation of a crisis-resistant economy should be held here in Parliament, because it would serve our future. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-14-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to the statement made before the agenda. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-04-14-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, There are some of the points that you set out, in which I agree, this is a little less, and there are quite a few points that I would like to respond to, given that I think otherwise, we think differently; it was a little more of that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I agree with you that the pandemic situation is a long-term challenge for Hungary, but for all countries in the world. I'm sure you're also following the aspirations of the biggest, strongest, most robust economies. The G7 countries are in trouble, their health care systems are taking place very hard, if at all, to face challenges that can be resolved and to take serious restrictive economic measures. That is why it is very important that strict health measures and economic dynamism measures aimed at relaunching the economy run in parallel and are balanced. Similarly, it is important in a philosophical debate on the economic policy of, say, a non-viral period, which, unfortunately, can only be philosophical now due to the situation, that we treat the competitiveness and environmental aspects of a country in a balanced way, that none should overtake the other, stay on the ground of common sense, and that instead of talking about communication balloons and the clearly sound but totally unrealistic years, we put the country's competitiveness and long-term sustainable development in the focus. You are talking about having some kind of misguided economic policy here, and this is where the very long list of things begins, honourable Member, on which we disagree. I cannot take the wrong view of economic policy in which almost one million new jobs have been created in ten years. I cannot see a failure in economic policy that can generate a 70% net average wage increase in ten years at the national economy level. I cannot see the economic policy that has produced an ever higher rate of economic growth year by year, while the level of public debt is decreasing year by year; and I cannot fail to see the economic policy that has finally led us to the fact that although we are only 92 in the world in terms of soul numbers, Hungary provides the 34th best export performance. This is due to the fact that Hungarian people are performing in Hungary, producing products, producing services that are extremely sought-after on the world market. If a country stands only in 92th place in terms of population, but can deliver the 34th largest export performance, if it can be a member of the 35th elite, each of which can produce exports over 100 billion euros each for years, that if the proportion of our exports and our GDP is 86 percent, this shows that Hungarian people's performance is absolutely competitive at global level. I listen to your speeches, I read your writings. You go back to that moment a lot, so I'm sorry, so you're going back to that conclusion. [[It's a rare blur.]] I do not want to create internal tensions here, so, he often returns to the conclusion that the added value of the Hungarian economy would be low, or that we would simply be a production tape. This is not true either, because if this were the case and we produced poor products, they would be unsellable on the world market, and that is not the case today. If a country has a GDP of about EUR 130 billion... [[Defiance from DK's ranks.]] You can laugh at the performance of the Hungarian people, Mr Arató [[Gergely Arató: I'm not laughing at them, I'm laughing at Mr. Secretary of State!]] It is possible to laugh at them, but the fact is that if a country can produce more than EUR 100 billion in exports with GDP of EUR 130 billion, it is the praise of the Hungarian people. I would also like to inform you that the dimensional shift in the Hungarian economy has been successful. If that were not the case, we would not have been able to produce the highest economic growth rate in the European Union last year. You referred to the car industry, honourable Member. I am happy to inform you, and this is a feedback to Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio's speech before the agenda, that the Audi has restarted its production today, that we have discussed with them several rounds about health requirements and tasks, and that the Audi is all the same. Opel's Szentgotthárd factory is ready to restart, and Denso is rebooting. While I respectfully inform you that the world's largest electric battery factories are currently being built in Hungary, in Göd and Komárom, and I think that this may also be important news for you, who adopt themselves as a green party. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-14-24	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, In betrayal and abandoning those who have been left out of the oligarch rescue package, MEP Gergely Arató asked for the floor from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-25	Thank you very much. Dear House, Tales say the wolf is evil, the fox is cunning, and the magpie steals. The Fidesz lies and fills the pockets of the oligarchs in every situation, and the latter is unfortunately not a story at all, but reality. There was a huge volume of propaganda last week that the greatest economic rescue package of history, the world, and even the galaxy had been completed. Then the reality came out: it's not an economic rescue, it's an oligarch rescue package. The budget of HUF 1345 billion makes up 3 percent of GDP with some goodwill. This is thus in proportion to Europe's smallest economic package. That kind of money won't help anyone but a few kissers. Not at all, my fellow Members, 18-20 percent of GDP, because everything else they are talking about is a delay in credit and repayment, which will have to be repaid later. The Orbán package is more likely to say that the miracle weapon of the package is state wage support, which was initially said to provide 70 percent support to entrepreneurs whose employees lost their order or who lost 70 percent of their orders to keep the workers. Then when the government decree came out, it turned out that almost none of this was actually true. The wage support is not 70 per cent, but only 21-35 per cent of the wage, which is not enough to keep jobs, and the maximum amount of support is 75 thousand forints. For example, in the Czech Republic 60-80 percent of the total wage can be expected by businesses in difficulty and the maximum amount of support is the Czech krona equivalent to HUF 525 thousand. But this small amount of support will only reach some of the companies in trouble, and not immediately, because first they have to prove that their income has been reduced because of the coronal virus epidemic. So it's like a drowning man is supposed to be in trouble because he can't breathe underwater before they throw in the lifeline. Then companies are required to receive the aid only if the slave law is applied and it is extended to 24 months. [[11.50]] In other words, workers will pay back this support to employers in many, many hours later, destroyed and eviscerated. To make it even more beautiful, as a real hungaricum, reduced working hours do not actually mean reduced working hours, as workers have to attend even when there is no work to attend further training. I'm a big fan of training, but I'm sure this isn't the best time. It's inhuman and utter nonsense in this form. Therefore, only those who can prove that it is in the interest of the national economy to keep their jobs can benefit from Europe's smallest state aid. In recent years, we have learned abundantly that the interests of the national economy in your case are the wealth of fidesz oligarchs. And who stays out of the package? People who have already lost their jobs will be left out. According to some estimates, they already have 300,000, and they don't offer them anything. Small businesses with losses of less than 50 percent are left out, but 60-70-80-100 percent. And these are not only in tourism, where the Prime Minister's family is doing business with his friends, but also in many other sectors. They don't get anything, either, because if they can't pay their rent, they don't get a lot of benefits. So everyone who's really in trouble is left out to get to their friends. When the Democratic Coalition proposed a real economic rescue package of 3000 billion, we said that the unemployed or those who were forced to take unpaid leave would receive at least 80% of their wages, that the troubled micro-enterprises would receive 80% of their wage costs, that pensioners would receive immediate support and not once, next time. Raise the family allowance and create a HUF 5000 billion fund to support local government social expenditure! This would be a real help and real economic recovery. You say there's no source. There is a source of support for football players, Hungarians from across borders, support for churches, support for the Hungarian people in distress. [[Dr. Pál Völner: They are also Hungarian people.]] Perhaps Minister for Foreign Affairs should take out his notebook, turn a page, and, say, Turkmenistan, which has legally banned the coronal virus, get to the European Union and take advantage of the subsidies that the EU offers. To do that, of course, you have to give up the money already distributed, the money you've already given your friends, and you have to fight in Brussels and find good conditions. I propose this, and then there will be money to support businesses in distress and Hungarian people in distress in a European way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-04-14-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the speech made by the Member before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, honourable Member, to your comment on the matter of magpies: every time there is an oligarchy in this House, we will say so many times that we do not take hundreds of millions of dividends out of our companies, but your party president. [[Gergely Harvester: It's Lőrinc Ripper!]] He was also a billionaire. We didn't grow in the acceleration band of privatisation, he did. We don't come from a confiscated villa, he does. After that, oligarching here in this House is nothing more than net hypocrisy. Well, as far as the economic aspect of the epidemic is concerned, I would first like to clarify the principles on which the government has announced its economic defence action plan. First of all, we want to create as many jobs as the epidemic is destroying. The cabinet has experience in this because there have been over 800,000 jobs in recent years. Second of all, we think it's for everyone! be involved in the burdening of multinationals, banks, governments, municipalities and parties. And we believe that even if we see left-wing parties, including Jobbik, trying to avoid financial commitments. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: We didn't get pissed off at the multinationals!]] Thirdly, we do not want to resort to solutions that increase our external dependence. We can see that many people in the region are already lurking towards the IMF, some of them may already be in the hallway, and it may be tempting to start relaxing the rules on financial discipline now, but if we were to take the same route, then the price of this pepper should be paid later. We would lose some of our economic autonomy, and you were the ones who once showed us where this would lead when the government debt was pushed above 80 percent. We don't want to get here again. Now the programme that you are underestimating, not for the first time, is providing substantial support not only to businesses but also to families. Let's see what we're talking about or what you didn't tell us. The government has decided to suspend the loan repayments, and you can't say nothing, because it concerns hundreds of thousands of families, and if I remember correctly, you have demanded similar measures. The government has decided to suspend evictions, and they can't doubt that, and I remember that they have demanded this before. Tax reliefs were also decided, employer's contributions were waived, employer's tax reduction from July, cadastre-girl release, this again concerns hundreds of thousands. Honourable Congressman, If you do not support these measures, then stand before those involved and tell them to their face. That would be a clean speech. As far as EU funds are concerned, money could be transferred to control the epidemic that we have already committed. So please tell me what to do, what to take the money away from. [[Gergely Arató: From the Mátra Power Plant!]] The development of roads, the development of schools or the development of hospitals? And in the case of which municipality does the government withdraw? Stand before the local authorities and tell them where I would like to cut the improvements that have already been decided. One of the major points of the action plan is wage support. What I see is that you are thinking about solutions that will sustain unemployment. If I had to get to the point, you'd be assigning a lot of aid, a lot of aid, and you think that's the whole thing. But no, because this policy has already passed the test once, and it has failed badly, among other things because it has led to 12 percent unemployment, and we have managed to get it back below 4 percent. On the other hand, the government is introducing subsidies that are sharpened when companies undertake to keep jobs; it is not aid, it is job protection, and that is a huge difference. By the way, your appeal is strange because we have a specific experience of how you handled the crisis: layoffs, accumulation of debt, and offering the whole country on a platter to the IMF, foreign creditors. We see that the IMF is already waiting for this opportunity, but I can assure you, honourable Member, that this is an opportunity that we do not want to take advantage of at all. In recent years, it has been very much worth our journey, and we will continue to do so in the future. Otherwise, we take it for granted that opposition parties make various proposals to get out of the crisis. Now, the one thing I would ask of you is that when comparisons are made, this action plan should be measured against your own tragic crisis management policy; you will see that there is a difference between heaven and earth compared to this one. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-14-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Mr Bertalan Tóth of the MSZP Group spoke before the agenda with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My respectful question to the representatives of the government here is, what the hell are you doing with health? During the weekend, hospital leaders were fired, passions were aroused, but since then the electoral cry for help is coming in that basic care and specialist care are not working properly. Serious patients with non-coronary viruses are literally thrown out of hospitals. What are you doing? I got photos this morning that show sick people standing in line in front of a hospital in the capital. We shouldn't be sending patients from hospitals or opening hotels owned by Lőrinc Mészáros or even by István Tiborcz. More and more people are getting infected, and even the Prime Minister said that nearly 20 percent of healthcare workers could get infected. We have told you a thousand times that the most important thing would be honest and open communication. What are they planning? What are they up to? I see you're still most interested in political give-and-takes, since after the corona virus has appeared in state, church, and municipal nursing homes, you've been attacking the mayor in a disgusting way, even though he demanded it and we've been demanding it for weeks that there should be more tests, protective equipment, but you haven't moved your ears. [[12.00]] A few weeks ago, the Prime Minister said that he had 133 brave men to solve the crisis, to overcome the virus, and to leave no one on the side of the road. I'm sure you'll remember. Compared to this, the Prime Minister put the responsibility for the defense on the shoulders of the mayors for the long weekend of Easter, while some representatives of the government went to the Castle Garden Bazaar for lunch despite the ban. I think the mayors have succeeded, and I thank you for your responsible actions. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear members of the Government, Understand that it is the government's responsibility to deal with the consequences of the crisis and to deal with the worsening crisis. Four or five thousand people lose their jobs every day. With the announced crisis management plan, called the Orbán Plan, employers are dissatisfied, trade unions are dissatisfied, economists independent of the government are dissatisfied, and even László Parragh, president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, can hardly be accused of opposition. So after Easter, I'm asking you to reconsider your crisis management, start over. A normal government in a normal country would probably try to do that, I think. Unfortunately, however, the fact is that these brave 133 people are no longer brave enough to put on the agenda at today's People's Welfare Committee the opposition proposals that would have been about, for example, extending the job search time and raising the unemployment allowance. They simply do not discuss these proposals. What you're doing is a disgrace. And it is also a shame to leave everyday heroes working in the social sector, trade, public services, the elderly who have few pensions, the masses who have already lost their jobs or the small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, without protective equipment, testing and money. Once again, you are saving the Fidesz elite who are profiting from EU funds and again benefiting the multinationals and some of the major corporations. Ladies and gentlemen, Addressing the crisis should be about people, not how to give hundreds of billions more easily to the Prime Minister's friend, the Prime Minister's kinship, for castle renovation or bath development. People need to be protected. The duration of the job search allowance should be extended to 9 months; the subsequent allowance should be increased; no less than 100 thousand HUF net. At least one of the parents of underage children should be assured that he can stay at home while keeping his income. You have to double the family allowance, the child, the child, the amount of maternity allowance, because inflation has devalued the value of benefits. Minimum pensions should be radically increased; small pensioners should not remain defenceless in times of crisis. Protection of workers' health and financial recognition of their performance in times of emergency must be ensured. We need to give protective equipment and double basics to those who serve us in the front now. A one-time allowance of HUF 500,000 is also granted to employees in the social sector. In small and medium-sized enterprises, 80% of their wages and contributions are transferred to keep jobs and not to send people away. Act until it's too late, for our future together, for Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2020-04-14-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, the reply will be given by Minister Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, The situation is serious, we're dealing with a global epidemic. We would like to believe that a national issue is the issue of the success of defence, which is in everyone's interest regardless of party affiliation, and therefore, if the President and my fellow Members allow me, I would like to reply to the speech before the agenda that we have just heard, rather than anger. The Hungarian government's primary objective is to achieve the success of health protection. We know very well that this requires providing healthcare workers with the right tools. I would like to say once again to you: 47 million masks, more than 352 thousand tests, 20 million 300 thousand defence tools have arrived in Hungary in recent weeks, and in the coming weeks and months, with the operation of the air bridge from the East to Hungary, many tens of millions of equipment for health protection will arrive in Hungary. You don't have to talk, you have to act. These devices must be folded, these devices must be purchased, contracted and transported here. [[Constant intervention from the benches of opposition parties.]] Where's the... where's the... where's the... I respectfully inform you that it is worth asking first and that we are happy to answer. From these aircraft, when they land in Budapest, the medical protection equipment will be transferred to the central warehouse of the State Healthcare Services Centre after customs duties at the airport and subsequently distributed between hospitals and clinics. I respectfully inform you, Mr President, Mr Group Leader, that we have discussed with the mayors the measures necessary for the curfew for the Easter weekend or for the protection of the curfew. And it is no coincidence that last week the Mayor of Budapest and the President of the Association of City Rights, which brings together the largest cities, took part in the government meeting, and after consulting them, the curfew measures were extended. You told me about the Easter season. If you followed the news, you could see, even during the Easter period, how many hospitals the Prime Minister visited and watched and made sure that the means of protection were available. I also respectfully inform you, Mr Group Leader, that we have discussed with the most important players in the Hungarian economy the measures that we have announced in the framework of the Economic Protection Action Plan. I think that setting up a working asset loan for small and medium-sized enterprises with an interest rate of 0.1 per cent within a year is in the interest of the multinationals, is somewhat excessive. I think that setting up a programme as an interest of the multinationals, which leads small and medium-sized enterprises to stand behind their commercial bank loans with the guarantee of the State, is an exaggeration. And also to acknowledge the interests of the multinationals that the state takes up insurance for 360 days when selling small and medium-sized enterprises on the external market, I think, honourable Member, that if we stick to the facts, then perhaps such statements will not be made next time. As I would also like to say to you, in addition to public wage support for shorter working hours, we will also keep our promise of a tax reduction. Therefore, we will reduce the social contribution tax by 15.5 percent, or another 2 percent, as a continuation of the process that has started this year in recent years. Remember, this rate was close to 30 percent when you were in government. Now it'll be half, 15.5 percent. At the same time, I would also like to show you with respect, fellow Members, that it is not necessary to talk, but to act. At the European Union, we have announced the investment support procedure under which we can give half the investment value of small, medium and larger companies operating in Hungary up to EUR 800 thousand without any investigation up to EUR 800 thousand. And we have also started to make the above programme known to the European Commission, and the necessary consultations are taking place. Honourable Congressman, So we have done, and we will continue to do all that is necessary to protect Hungary from the pandemic, to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people, and to restart the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-14-32	Thank you very much, Minister. - Do you support him? Mr Péter Jakab, Head of the Group of the Jobbik Group, asked to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-33	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, The most gigantic economic defense action plan of all time, if I remember correctly, was somehow the words of the economic rescue package that you announced just a week ago, and which was really expected by many people to throw a lifeline at those in distress. Then there was the historic announcement, everyone was waiting, and the only thing that didn't come out was what was going to happen to the people who were supposed to be saved. What about those who lost their jobs, who lost their jobs? Then we found out why we didn't find out anything. Orbán's right-hand man, one of the creators of the economic protection action plan, went on TV and said that in essence so many people in Hungary have been ruined and so many people will be ruined that you can't really do anything about it. [[12.10]] Fellow Members, you have known from the very beginning how much trouble there will be here. They knew that the government itself acknowledged at the beginning of the crisis that hundreds of thousands of our countrymen could lose their jobs. He lost 30,000 in March, then 4 thousand a day in April. And instead of interfering, instead of saving the rescue as quickly as possible, what did you do? With themselves. All European governments were busy saving jobs. You were the only ones busy saving your own power, caring even in an emergency that they would fight for themselves as much power as possible, and they did so. Then, when you have unlimited power, and you have all the tools that exist, then they spread their hands and say, "Oh, I'm sorry, there's nothing we can do about the unemployed, because in the meantime, there's so many of them. But, fellow Members, if that's the case, why the hell did you need unlimited power for an unlimited period of time? ! You said that an extraordinary legal order is needed to deal effectively with the crisis. Now you're telling me you can't handle this? ! I'm gonna ask you one more time, what did you really need the Powers Act for? Wasn't it supposed, fellow Members, to be able to shovel public money effectively into the pockets of friends and kissers, even in an emergency? ! Wasn't the authorisation law supposed to be able to encrypt for ten years how the Budapest-Belgrád railway line increased from 600 billion to 1700 billion forints? ! And who's gonna get rich again? Well, of course it's Butcher Lawrence, isn't it? What do we need with a virus and an epidemic and a global crisis when it comes to family? Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, must now build a yacht port on Lake Balaton from 2 billion. So it looks like if it's about your enrichment, they can fix everything, they can't help you if you have to raise the troubled and help them. Colleagues, you can do this, so it's possible to pay in an emergency and make a profit, you know, it's going to be a social tension that's going to wipe you out with your assets, because a lot of people are going to have nothing to lose here. So if you guys have something to lose, I think you still have something to lose, you might want to think fast again about how you can do something for the ruined Hungarians. If they listen to me, they will sacrifice their billionaires as quickly as possible, for example, and they will vote in favour of the better proposal to impose a Ripper tax, to levy a 30 percent special tax on all those who have been rich in the last few years just like Lőrinc Mészáros, with a steering edge and dirty. In the last few weeks here in Parliament, the head of the Fidesz faction has been very upset that I want to send your billionaires on a diet. It is possible to be upset about this, but this money is still needed to reduce the drastic increase in the number of unemployed. This process must be grasped. We can preserve and protect jobs if small and medium-sized enterprises are, on the one hand, granted full tax and tax exemptions, but that is not enough, 80 percent of the total labour costs of workers have to be taken over. Not 70 percent of half of your salary, which you're doing again, you're gonna have to take over 80 percent of your total salary. If the Czechs and Slovaks can do this, we can do it, too, believe me. And to do that, you don't have to take away the last forint from the municipalities, you have to tax your billionaires. In recent years, when I tried to explain to the Fidesz voters how unrealistic is the enrichment that can be achieved at Lőrinc Mészáros, Garancsi, István Tiborcz, Toni Rogán and the others, I was always told that there is finally a real national capital class that can be expected in trouble, because then they will give us our money back. Well, this is a problem, fellow Members. So I ask you not to disappoint your own voters, to support, to vote for the Mészáros tax, to take back the Hungarians' money now, and to save Hungary together! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-14-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Mr. Fraction Manager asked me exactly what the so-called authorisation law on the protection of the Crown Virus was for. I would like to tell you what measures we have taken on the basis of this legislative mandate, and then we can start talking about whether this is really helping the so-called oligarchs that you mentioned or something else. Here are the measures: the capital and interest payment obligations of private individuals and businesses were suspended until 18 March 2020 and the payment moratorium covers all credit agreements, baby showers and student loans. No interest shall be charged, no later payment shall become a greater burden. Short-term business loans have been extended. The total rate of credit for new consumer loans was maximized by the central bank's base rate plus 5%. In sectors already facing serious problems, until 30 June, employers' contributions will be fully released and employee contributions will be significantly reduced. No pension contributions are payable, the health insurance fee is reduced to the minimum. 81,000 small business operators were exempted from the flat-rate payment obligation of kata until 30 June. There are occupational branches such as hairdressing, beauty care, electrical installations, performing arts, water, gas, heating, outpatient care, exercise, other sporting activities, and care of the elderly and people with disabilities. Work rules have been made more flexible, evictions and seizures and tax implementations have been suspended. We have extended the rights to children, children and children in emergency situations. This was the first package we all accepted based on defense. Then we announced Hungary's largest recovery and job protection package. This represents 20 percent of GDP, and we are talking about HUF 9000 billion. This includes additional measures to protect jobs, such as special support for short-term work. We want to create as many jobs as the virus destroys, so we will support small and medium-sized enterprises in a simplified tender scheme. We want to restart the economy, a priority area for action is the sectors that have been blocked by the spread of the virus. We support businesses, as Minister said, we create a preferential loan facility worth nearly HUF 2000 billion and protect families and bring back the 13th month pension. If, after this information and listing, the Member thinks that these measures do not serve the benefit of the Hungarian people, but are intended to maintain the operation of some distinguished business group, then I can tell you for sure that we are not watching a television programme, we are not putting ourselves on a platform, because I think that if you look at these measures, you can clearly see that they are targeting those sectors that are most vulnerable to the control of the virus, and that the negative consequences of the virus are borne most by them, those in need, groups at risk, families, pensioners. All of our measures under our delegation law are aimed at these vulnerable groups. The problem begins with the fact that, in principle, this law on the control of the coronal virus should reflect a national consensus, and the opposition should have supported this bill, because it is on this basis that we were able to take these measures. The thing is, since you weren't on the side of the Crown Virus Protection Act, I have to tell you that no matter how hard you try to twist things around, you didn't support these measures. So, for you, these social groups aren't important, and you don't want to help them fight the coronal virus. You have spent five minutes at your disposal on nothing but political illusions and political moods. [[Noise, uproar, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] We believe that, at such a time of emergency in the fight against the epidemic, this is not what we need, but national cooperation. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Bence Rétvári, from the KDNP Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on current issues. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would particularly like to share two points in this speech before the agenda. One is the impact of the current epidemic on the world's order and economic and social order, and the other is the behaviour of the Hungarian opposition in this current epidemic situation, even in comparison with other countries. [[12.20]] How much more during the virus epidemic, perhaps a good quote from Richard Korzenszky, former Abbot of Pannonhalm, is that we are living not only in trying but also in forming times, because really our attitude to the main things, the most important things we hope will be different from that of the virus epidemic as soon as possible. We also learn patience in these weeks, in these times, temperament, as each radically reduces his or her encounters, or does so only in a digital way, and real human relationships are appreciated at this time. After all, we are used to having family together every Easter, every family holiday and every other church holiday, meeting each other, and having even a narrower and wider kinship together. Now we had to make a living, even during the watering process, that we could only catch up with our older relatives on video phones. Then the lack of these relationships will be felt even more, and what we used to take for granted in everyday life will be even more appreciated: our relatives, friends, the loving environment that surrounds us. That is why this period also encourages humility, discipline, and responsibility, and strengthens us. At the same time, the negative effects of globalisation are now tangible and show up in health and human life. We can see that open society has become a vulnerable society. Countries that do not settle for self-sufficiency to a minimum, not only in relation to health protection equipment, but also in relation to essential consumer goods, are now facing much greater difficulties than those countries that considered it important to be able to stand on their own feet. All the dangers of globalisation have now come out better. Assuming, also complemented by, say, attacks on global financial markets, to which Hungary could be exposed, and many other countries could be exposed at this time. It can be seen that both the spread of the virus and the supply of basic consumer and defence supplies show much more that national thinking has a very important role to play. Maybe we had a false sense of security. We thought the possibilities of science were limitless. Now it has come to light that the belief in human omnipotence or invulnerability is not real; we have a false sense of security and are not the result of global solutions or solutions between nations, because European leaders are sometimes forced to apologize to Italy and sometimes to the whole of Europe; but it is the national solutions that can really offer a solution, because every country is looking for a solution on a national basis in this situation. Thus, national thinking has been appreciated. At the same time, it can be seen that during this period there are politicians in Hungary who are looking for foreign newspapers and foreign politicians as a kind of professional terror, and who want to show a false picture of Hungary. We have also learned a new term in liberal terms from Minister Szijjártó's CNN interview: "I'm sorry, I lied instead of this new information. Now we know that this is how liberals interpret these sentences, as there are more surprising opportunities than Hungarians in many countries. Even in France, on the basis of the French Constitution, the majority of the government may consider a proposal accepted by Parliament if the government is not overthrown within 24 hours by a motion of mistrust. Measures without time limits were adopted in Romania and the Czech Republic. In Germany, a law has been in force since 2000 which entitles the Government to take measures in the form of regulations. The law in force for two years in the United Kingdom was first adopted with measures in force for six months. In Switzerland, too, there is a huge debate between lawyers about what the central government and cantons can and cannot do and how the government can cross the local administrative areas there; and we know that in Italy, Estonia, Slovakia and Slovenia the emergency could have been ordered by the government and even extended in Italy twice. We have seen that there are, therefore, exceptional measures in these countries. The difference is one: from those countries, the opposition did not run to international podiums, did not run to international organisations, did not run to foreign journalists to try to discredit its own country with false accusations. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Unfortunately, the Hungarian opposition did so in Hungary. There are clearly debates in all countries, but only in Hungary there are oppositions running abroad with lies after the debates. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-14-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor. [[Péter Ungár: Hard!]]
u2020-04-14-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, First of all, allow me to express the thanks of the government to all Hungarian people who, despite all the temptations, respected curfew during the weekend, helped to reduce the rate of spread of the virus in Hungary by making a personal sacrifice. Obviously, this is not how we imagined Easter, nor do we imagine looking at the future, but I think that if we stick together now and turn our backs and shoulders to the shoulders, we can get through this extraordinary challenge sooner than if we don't make these personal sacrifices. If I may, my honourable fellow Member, I would like to respond to some of your thoughts. First of all, I agree that, when we are going to be through this whole crisis, we must also draw the political conclusions of that on foreign policy, on global policy. I think that we can already say so much without any greater risk that the countries who are pursuing a balanced foreign policy and a balanced economic policy have acted better. After all, we can see that the entire Western world is lining up in the East, all Western European and American companies and governments are lining up there, basically in China, so that they can acquire the basic tools necessary to protect them. Therefore, the opening of the East in 2010 has been very much criticised in recent years, although it is clear now that this policy has and does make sense. Of course, this conclusion could be drawn earlier, for example last year, when it turned out that 47 percent of the record investment in Hungary came from Korea and more than 50 percent of the total investment came from the East. And if we look at how the global investment rate is or how it turned out before the epidemic, we can see that some 58 percent of the investments in the world have now been financed from Eastern capital. Fifteen years ago, this ratio was 17 percent, so it is clear that global economic and global policy processes are changing. You have to see that the pace of change is now dictated as much from the East as from the West. It is also clear that national-based solutions have worked, honourable Member, we agree on this. And it is also clear that there are groups called speculators who are not resting right now and are trying to break a country's defence strategy. That is why it is very important, on the one hand, to stand on more feet and, on the other hand, not to give in to the seduction of which calls are very often made here, even within the walls of Parliament, that we should rather base the recovery from the crisis on aid, which is by definition impossible, and not on the protection of jobs or the creation of jobs. We know this economic philosophy debate, we started ten years ago, we've been fighting enough for the past ten years. In 2010, we were tempted by the IMF and some speculators at the forefront, even domestic political and domestic economic operators, to get into as much debt as possible and to distribute as much aid as possible, but instead we started an economic policy based on the creation of jobs, the results of which are visible. Finally, I would also like to say that it is clear that international liberal mainstream is not resting during the epidemic and the crisis. The false news is a sign of equality: lies are produced with great forces; it seems that there are separate production lines for this. And you are not ashamed of those who spread these lies, even if they are caught on live television, and my honourable fellow Member is right to say that if something turns out to be a lie, then at most they will note that there is new information now. [[12.30]] I think that getting information that the Hungarian Parliament is working would not have been the peak performance of liberal international journalism, but this is when the question comes that it really is not prepared or they lie on purpose. As regards emergency situations, there are four countries in the European Union [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] where the end of the extraordinary period is not defined and there are four countries where the extraordinary period can be extended by the government without the approval of Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-40	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Böröcz applied for an address on the agenda from the Fidesz Group entitled Current Affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to thank you for the hard work that you have done to protect the country and the people of the past period, doctors, nurses, law enforcement workers, social workers, and everyone who has done so. I would also like to thank you, as Minister Szijjártó has done for the public, that we have managed to celebrate Easter disciplinefully, and that we have stayed at home in order to protect each other's health by giving up our usual social gatherings. This is not an easy situation, because as the weeks pass, it is increasingly difficult to stop from seeing our loved ones and friends, which is no wonder, because we are social beings. I wish all of you perseverance and strength for this day-to-day struggle. The government is working under an economic protection plan to deal with the economic shock caused by the epidemic. It can also be seen that the Hungarian people trust the government and the Prime Minister, as 74 percent support the government in the current situation, which is the fifth best result in Europe, according to an analysis institute based in Germany. Perhaps this trust is not a coincidence, because after 2010, we had to take the steering pole from a hopeless situation, and just as a reminder, some people here have selective memories of what they were doing, and I would list it in a few points. Government debt was over 80% of GDP and Hungary was in debt with several thousand billion HUF IMF loans. Unemployment was well above 10 percent, and youth unemployment was close to 30 percent. By 2010, wages, incomes, 13 months' wages and pensions were reduced, taxes were raised, family allowances were cut, and the paying middle class collapsed, and hundreds of thousands of people were in a hopeless situation, and that is why thousands, tens of thousands of people left Hungary during the period, some of whom were now able to move back home. They only provided social assistance and thus preserved the people living in extreme poverty. The country's external vulnerability was enormous, mainly because of foreign exchange loans. The economy suffered much more losses than the neighbouring countries during this period, despite the fact that economic growth has not been close to the level of neighbouring countries. So trust is not a coincidence, because the Hungarian people have once experienced that the civilian government can overcome such a hopeless situation as the 2010 period and can bring the country to a successful growth path in a short time. And the fruits of this have been experienced by many in recent years, especially by the population of the country. The key to everything is crisis management, to have thought about what we want to do, what we have in mind, what our goal is, what our vision is, and to have a plan on how we can achieve this. Economists, economic experts, politicians always argue about what is the right set of steps, how to solve an economic crisis. Paper can carry a lot of things, as they say, for example, Ferenc Gyurcsány's dozens of programs, but if we just start from numbers, we can easily find ourselves in the field of lawnmower-like restrictions that try to handle the present, not help the ways of the future. Our thinking focuses on jobs and work, both in 2010 and now. The main goal is to create as many jobs as the virus destroys. This is the guiding thread of crisis management, and we are moving forward along this line, not on the frivolous escape of aid-based farming, indebtedness. After all, it would be the easiest thing in the world to distribute aid to everyone, if there is no money, then to apply for foreign loans, then to apply again for restrictions, to inflate money, and then to distribute new aids, and to take more credit. We saw where this led, and it was very difficult to break out of this trap after 2010. The aim was to enable those who wanted to work in Hungary to work, and this was actually achieved by 2020, while eliminating the country's financial vulnerability and dependence, thus gradually creating higher value added jobs in the market sector. That is our goal now, and we must continue on this path even if the world is hit by a crisis and Europe is hit by a crisis. That's what people expect of us, and that's what we're authorized to do. As I said, the action plan will provide unprecedented amounts for the protection and acceleration of the work-based economy over the next three years. Of course, if necessary, the government can further expand the action plan, to which we will, of course, ensure the support of the governing parties. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, We all remember the dilemmas and the challenges we faced in 2010. Although the current pandemic is very overweight in order to bring these debates back to a long time, we can still remember that there was a deficit of around 7 per cent of the budget, that the level of public debt was above 85 per cent, that unemployment was above 12 per cent, and that the country was introduced under the IMF programme. Thank God, everyone now remembers that Greece was the first country saved by the IMF's programme, and here I would put such a parentheses question mark there, but no, the then socialist government was the first to ask for the IMF's help in this round. We were here in 2010. Those of us who were still here, we can remember the debates, basically economic philosophical debates, about the direction in which we should go. Some people were trying to encourage us to just go to survival, that's what the aid, the more IMF loans, the country's supply, and then finally handing speculators over to them. And there was another trend that said that we should try a brave economic policy, no doubt not on the basis of the textbook instruments of that time, and that we should look at the crisis as an opportunity, after which we could be stronger than we were before, and we could be stronger than those who played only to survive. After all, thanks to the two-thirds majority in Parliament behind us, we have chosen this path, the economic policy of tax cuts and job creation. Let us remember that in 2010, 1.8 million people paid taxes in Hungary, so in 2010, when we took over government, we could have inherited an economic policy philosophy that thought that 1.8 million people's taxes could run a ten million-year-old country. Today 4.5 million people have jobs, 4.5 million people put together, 4.5 million people have jobs and achievements in this country, 4.5 million taxpayers instead of 1.8 million taxpayers. We can also remember when we said that we would create a million new jobs in ten years. There are also those in this House who at that time smiled, called it frivolous, rooting all the way against that success; some of them are very well-known, excellent economists who often attribute themselves to the infallibility character, who say very cleverly and very wisely today what is expected, and it turns out that they were not right, but those who believed that in ten years an economic policy based on job creation and tax reduction could create a million new jobs. Of course, this economic philosophy is also leading the economic protection action plan that we presented last week, which is about the fact that beyond the fact that we want to protect and protect jobs at risk, we are supporting the creation of at least as many new jobs as are lost because of the pandemic. [[12.40]] And of course, anyone who has studied mathematics knows perfectly well that each number is one bigger, one bigger than each number, one more sound. However, it must also be made clear that the debt of a country is the greatest sin that can be committed. We have seen that in recent years, the countries that have been indebted have had speculators' hands, the strategic wealth has been out of national control, and from then on, it was not the democratically elected government and parliament that controlled the processes, but external financial actors. We have avoided this, and we will avoid it in the future, the economic action plan and the economic protection action plan are exactly that. Even though they expected, speculated secretly or in secret, many people would be disappointed that now would be the time for speculators to destroy this country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-44	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I respectfully inform my fellow Members that after today's agenda, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, from the Jobbik Group; Member Bence Tordai, from the Parliament's notary, from the Dialogue Group; Anita Potocsányé Kőrösi, from the Jobbik Group; Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát from the Jobbik Group; Mr Ádám Steinmetz from the Jobbik Group; Mr László Keresztes from the LMP Group; Mr László Varga from the MSZP Group; Mr Ander Balázs from the Jobbik Group. Dear Parliament, It's 12:41 p.m., and we're gonna start talking about immediate questions. Dear House, Group leader of Jobbik's Group, Congressman Peter James, what do you think about this, Prime Minister? with an address [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] Asked me an immediate question. Prime Minister Szijjártó appointed Minister Peter Szijjártó for his urgent absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2020-04-14-45	I'll keep waiting.
u2020-04-14-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. I respectfully ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to wait for the Minister to be present, and to ask him for his answer personally.
u2020-04-14-47	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-14-48	Thank you very much. Dear House, Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Minister Péter Szijjártó has appointed Minister for his response due to the absence of Prime Minister. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person of the responding party or wait for the answer from Prime Minister in his personal presence.
u2020-04-14-49	Given the personal nature of my question, I look forward to it with great respect and patience, Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-14-50	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Member Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda has appointed Secretary of State to respond. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[On the sign of Tibor Nunkovics:]] Thank you very much. Congressman has indicated that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Tibor Nunkovich has the floor, please.
u2020-04-14-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Balázs Orbán just said how much he really despises opposition representatives because they did not vote in favour of the delegation bill. Well, to tell you the truth, I'm more and more happy that I didn't vote for this, because the regulation that you threw out on Friday is something quite scandalous. I didn't think that after 2018, the slave law could be further enhanced, but you did. They managed to produce a regulation in which, for example, I list, Hungarian workers are assured that those who work mostly in multinationals can have one day of rest each month. I think they might have taken that, don't they? That one day or so, what difference does it make? It's not like you guys know what it's like to work 30 days a month. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] They will do this without any extras, because when the economic crisis passes, the rest days that they will now receive will have to be worked out for them, and obviously the extra four hours or even the Saturday when they will do so will be done without any extras, so you will steal the Hungarian workers with this regulation, for example. But they will also bind Hungarian workers to a clot, because to whom they give this rest period and do not work it out, they will have to pay their employer if they want to change jobs, because perhaps after the crisis they will find a place where they can earn better at the same time, or if they do not pay the allowances, then they will have to work with this person for the next two years. So what we are talking about here is a common burden, and what I would like to know from the Secretary of State is what the common burden is in this regulation, because everything here is for workers. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-14-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already said, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We have heard it right here in the last few minutes, you and you have said no to the interests of Hungarian workers, as they have said otherwise, so that we can act together on the health and economic effects of the epidemic. You have said no to this, and you have said no to this today, because with the possibility of extending the working time limit, the government is actually giving employers the freedom and the opportunity to become more flexible in regulating the organisation of work. And this measure contributes to nothing else, honourable Member, but to protecting the workplace of Hungarian people, we can protect the workplace of Hungarian people without, moreover, reducing their wages. The fact is that we think that, as opposed to you, the most important thing is that Hungarian people have a job, a livelihood, and we believe that we trust that this measure can contribute to this goal. Honourable Congressman, Since 2010, the Hungarian government, together with employers, has created more than 800 000 jobs, many of which are in real danger because of the economic challenges caused by the coronal virus epidemic. It is therefore necessary to take the measures that you remembered in your speech, but I would like to ask that you do not attack, but support, these measures for the benefit of the Hungarian people, for the benefit of Hungarian workers. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-14-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tibor Nunkovics. Here you go.
u2020-04-14-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. I think we're obviously coming from somewhere else, so our life experiences are different. I worked in a factory for ten years as a factory worker. If you had done the same for at least a few weeks, you wouldn't have said that now, because it would probably have been offensive to yourself. What we are demanding is the introduction of the Ripper tax, because the oligarchs that you have fattened up over the last ten years have not yet seen your involvement in solving economic difficulties. [[12.50]] But we also demand the participation of multinationals in the crisis, because they are not affected by any damage in this regulation, Mr Secretary of State. Where is the involvement of multinational companies? I can't find it anywhere. Why aren't they obligated to fire those who are fired, if they will be taken back after the economic crisis, for example, not be able to pay back for less wages? 'Cause I'm gonna tell you this is what's gonna happen next. And I would very much ask you to withdraw this regulation and to implement a humane regulation that will also meet the challenges of the economic crisis. Thank you.
u2020-04-14-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-14-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You have just reported proudly that you have been a factory worker for years, and we can all be proud of that, which is why we do not understand the comment that you are criticizing the methods of the current crisis management. For you know, you too have experienced that work gives you security and respect; you can know that if there is work, then there is everything; and it feels much better and safer to work than to work on aid. In addition, he experienced the failed crisis management practice of Balliberal governments on his own. We can ask you what you want. You want us to make the same mistakes this country has already made? We do not want this; we do not want Hungarian people to wait for aid, but we want them to work proudly and take pride in production. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question on the title of "Rebuilding the Economy." Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó gave the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, you accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2020-04-14-59	I'm waiting patiently for Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-14-60	Thank you very much. Congressman, I respectfully inform you and my fellow Members that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear House, Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title: "Ongoing issues." Honourable Congressman, Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Péter Szijjártó was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-04-14-61	I'll take it.
u2020-04-14-62	Thank you very much. Since Mr Szijjártó has accepted Minister Péter Szijjártó as a reply, Mr Tamás Harangozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-14-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The first two or three weeks of an emergency, he left with the power of attorney and the political hysteria around him. Then the Fidesz voted by two thirds that the Prime Minister could do anything by decree to reduce the epidemic and its negative effects. Then we had to wait another week for the biggest economic rescue package of all time, which turned out to help only a part of the firms in difficulty to keep jobs, and there the state will not take over 70% of the workers' wages, but up to one third. Meanwhile, we are slowly talking about a month to the tens of thousands who have become unemployed, and the government is not giving any further help. Nothing shows the reality better than László Parragh, one of Viktor Orbán's chief economic advisors, an ATV interview of one of the developers of the rescue package, who asked what would happen to the companies in real trouble and what would happen to the people on the side of the road, gave the following answer, and I quote: "What should I say now?" So many people have been ruined in the last few days, and it's still going to be ruined that we can't do anything about it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then I have two questions for Minister. One: what in heaven's name needed unlimited power if the tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people in distress didn't even want to help? ! My second question comes from the first, it will be very short: are you not ashamed, Minister? ! I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-04-14-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said in my introduction, Minister Péter Szijjártó answers instead of Prime Minister. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for doing me the honor of asking me your question. There can be, and probably will be, debates between us, which is why we are sitting on two different sides of the parliamentary horseshoe, even if not physically, but at the same time I would like to ask you to give the minimum fairness to those sitting on the other side of the parliamentary horseshoe. First of all, I would like to say to you that the Crown Virus Act does not give unlimited authority to regulation governance, it gives us the opportunity to make the decisions necessary to protect against global epidemics quickly. This is not a Hungarian practice, it is not a European practice, it is a world exercise, you can find parliamentary decisions of this type in all countries of the world. And the other is why I asked for fairness: you say that we have done nothing for the people who are in a difficult situation. We may have debates that you agree that we have set out to create jobs; we may have debates about the fact that we think that the unemployed are helping the workplace, and you believe that the unemployed are helping the aid, it is two different economic philosophy, but to say that we have done nothing, it is an unworthy, honourable Member. After all, the government wage subsidies introduced for short working hours, the reduction of the social contribution tax, the 0.1 per cent working capital loan for small and medium-sized enterprises, the insurance product bridging the 360-day payment deadline for foreign market sales, the guarantee support for an even larger collateral pool required by commercial banks, all of which are designed to ensure that Hungarian businesses in difficulty are not destroyed, that they can survive this period, that they can remain competitive and that they can keep jobs and create new jobs after the end of the crisis. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-66	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-04-14-67	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, there's no fairness, you have full authority. They should be saving jobs and helping people who are already in trouble. In Slovakia, Romania, the Czech Republic, Austria, 70-80 percent of the total wage is taken over by the government; neither is 35 in Hungary. The unemployed are now over 300,000 people, Minister, and they will not help you in any way. In the meantime, this Parliament, you know what you do? What laws have you filed? Budapest-Belgrád railway line Lőrinc Mészáros has to be built with a thousand billion-dollar loan. They send land to the oligarchs, give away state property free of charge. These laws are being discussed by this Parliament as if there were no tomorrow. Minister, I would like you to stop grating, stop spreading the country, and at least give the Hungarian people what a Romanian or Slovak or Czech citizen can get! Or isn't the Hungarian man worth it to you? Here's 80 percent wage support, raise unemployment benefits, family allowances and pensions. That's what people are waiting for. Thank you for listening.
u2020-04-14-68	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-14-69	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, One thing I don't understand: why don't you demand that we create jobs? You're demanding aid again. I didn't hear from you once, on this side of the Parliament horseshoe, that you told us to create more jobs. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Show me one!]] It is clear, honourable Member, that we will not be able to agree on this economic philosophy issue. You are calling for Romanian, Slovak, Czech and I do not know what solutions to apply here in Hungary. Read, please, all the laws that have been made in these countries. Not only do you have to read the first line, you have to read the whole piece of legislation, and then you will see what conditions state wage support for shorter working hours has there, how many people can get it. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I checked!]] And by the end, what percentage will that be? And if you had looked at it, you wouldn't have made such absolutely unfounded allegations here. We're moving on with the economic security program. We will fight the same debates that we have fought since 2010, and those debates have been resolved three times by the Hungarian people. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2020-04-14-70	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "No one is left on the side of the road, right? It's an address. Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to your absence. The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Honourable Congressman, You have the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-14-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. The government announced, so to speak, the greatest economic recovery action plan of all time, and then the details came out, and it became clear to whom this particular action plan would not help. They do not help families, where one of the parents must stay at home with the child, or enough on pensioners, whose income has been increased by just half of the expected inflation, or by losing their jobs, as a sign that the so-called 'work-based economy', which we have just heard, is actually a refusal of solidarity on your part. Instead, what do they do? Let me just give you a taste of a few things. Priority support will be given to sectors in which the oligarchs of NER are very strongly present, such as tourism, catering, and then all help will benefit everyone. Plus tasks burden local governments and then deprive them of the significant revenues of car tax, parking income or tourist tax from which they could finance those tasks. However, the most vulnerable, the disabled, or the home caregivers of their loved ones, have been completely left out of this package, and they will not receive any institutional assistance. They do not receive, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has stated that you have unlawfully destroyed the disabled pensioners, they are not willing to provide them with a fair treatment one year after the expiry of that period. The Democratic Coalition has submitted a proposal to replace 50% and 80% of the average previous earnings of disabled pensioners, as well as home care workers, to guarantee at least the minimum wage. Some of the latter are gradually granted by the government after a long consultation, in four years, but the situation of the disabled pensioners has not improved, and the lives of those who care not for their children but for their other relatives at home have been made more difficult by amending the law. Then I ask the Secretary of State how we stand with their promise not to leave anyone on the side of the road. Thank you.
u2020-04-14-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Unlike your crisis management measures, this government is trying to provide an additional opportunity for everyone. As regards the general care fee, we are in a 15+5+5+5 per cent increase period, so as regards the children's home care fee, we have introduced a 24 per cent increase for them this year, honourable Member, and we will continue this increase in the coming years. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] On the other hand, when you were dealing with a crisis, you reduced sick pay by 10 percent, reduced the age limit for family allowances, reduced the duration of the child by one third, thus taking adverse measures for young and poor mothers, eliminated housing allowances and even withdrawn about HUF 600 billion from patient care, honourable Member. So when you were in crisis management, you were taken from people, you took a month's wages from doctors, you took a month's wages from nurses, you took a month's wages from every Hungarian pensioner. On the other hand, this year, in January, we will make a 14 percent wage increase and in November 20 percent wage increase for nurses, and from the following year we will gradually re-introduce the 13th month pension. That's the difference between your crisis management and our crisis management. For those who really need help, first of all, if they can work, we would like to pay a salary, so there has been a significant increase in the number and proportion of people who are able to work, who receive some kind of income supplement, and they have received a rather significant 24 percent increase in January this year, which will also be followed by a similar one next year. Still, this is a tangible help for those who care for their children at home. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-74	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder.
u2020-04-14-75	Thank you very much. When pro-government answers such questions, we always fly back in time for at least ten years, and do not act or do bad things with the defense of what happened 10-15 years ago. It is now, my dear gentlemen. The fact is, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are responsible for the fate of Hungarian citizens, right now, for solving the unworthy circumstances of disabled pensioners and home care workers, who, because of the crisis, which makes them impossible, would need additional support, not even the minimum amounts that you have proposed. If the truth that your economic advisor, László Parragh, has said these days that you do not know what to do with this situation, then this responsibility must not be passed on to others, but to others who undertake it, Mr Secretary of State. Thank you very much for your reply.
u2020-04-14-76	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State has the answer.
u2020-04-14-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have been sitting in this Chamber for some time, honourable Member. We have listed several times for you the measures that the government has taken, and indeed, we are talking about thousands of billions, which have been taken by the government over the past few years. It was a very important, quick step for families, of course, you didn't give us the authority to speed up the implementation of a credit moratorium on the capital and interest payments of the loans already made by the end of the year, no family has to pay this, evictions and seizures have been suspended, until the end of the emergency we extended the legal, legal and legal grounds that no one, no parent raising their children, whether they raise them alone or jointly raise them, can stay without these child-rearing grants. We are introducing special taxes, honourable Member, and we are drawing in additional resources from multinational companies and banks. Compared to this, what you did when you were governed: you called the IMF and the World Bank and gave them the opportunity to govern the country. We protect the Hungarian people with the authority of the Hungarian people, you have become governors under the title of crisis management, and you have given the IMF and the World Bank the opportunity to govern in Hungary. You really gave someone else the opportunity to govern. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? The Prime Minister granted Minister Péter Szijjártó the right to reply to his absence. I ask Congressman to accept the identity of Minister.
u2020-04-14-79	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to wait with this question for the Prime Minister.
u2020-04-14-80	All right, thank you, Congressman. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP, would also like to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology, who takes responsibility, Minister? Because of his absence, the Minister authorised Mr. János Schanda as Secretary of State to reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take it. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have said this in several forums that the government is preparing for an investment that is contrary to Hungarian national interests in all respects, and this situation is aggravated by the fact that you wish to do so in an epidemiological situation, in a situation where we are faced with an economic crisis that is unprecedented than ever before. You want to spend nearly a thousand billion forints on an investment on which there is no evidence of a return on utilisation. The only thing is certain about the investment launched in connection with the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is that Lőrinc Mészáros' companies can receive HUF 300 billion. Mr. Secretary. I said in the very long debate last week that we do not have a problem with rail development, and in general we do not have a problem with opposition groups either, because the Hungarian railway network would need a lot of development, a lot of rail development would be justified, even in the order of up to a thousand billion, which was not covered by your ten-year governance. We also said that we are not anti-investment, Mr. State Secretary, because there are a lot of investments that could be launched that are not only about burning money, spending money, but also about building the future, which could then be used to prepare the Hungarian economy in the 21st century. The challenges of the century. I do not wish to reopen, Mr State Secretary, the very long debate last week, but at the same time I draw attention to the fact that you did not answer a lot of very important questions at the time. For example, he did not respond to why, if you believe that we are wrong, the underlying documents and contracts are being encrypted. Why didn't they answer the question of exactly what underlying documents and calculations there are, and why do they think that this can be encrypted from Hungarian taxpayers by reference to Chinese business interests when they want to spend a thousand billion forints of Hungarian taxpayers on this? Exactly what guarantees did the Chinese have in the contract that if this railway development was built or this investment was made, they would use the line at all, so that the utilisation would take place? I trust, Mr Secretary, that we will be able to answer these extremely important questions this time. Thank you very much. [[13.10]]
u2020-04-14-82	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda.
u2020-04-14-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, This debate last week, if I remember correctly, continued for four hours, and I was still trying to convince you that a Green Party should not attack a railway development. In addition, we talked a lot about the fact that, in fact, the situation ahead of Hungary's economy is not against the investment; it is an argument, because we need to implement this development as quickly and as effectively as possible. Honourable Congressman, The fact is that I would be surprised if, after the several-hour debate last week, I failed to convince you that this development is indeed necessary, and it is essentially time to support this investment as a responsible green party, because it is also in Hungary's economic and social interest. The fact is, honourable Member, let me also draw attention to this in our last debate was less said that your allies, with whom you have joined forces, destroyed the railway, destroyed the railway, completely neglected the infrastructure of the railway, closed railway lines and put thousands of railway families at risk. Honourable Congressman, It would be time to break off with this left-wing attitude to the railway and basically start supporting the development that we are doing in part with the Budapest-Belgrád railway line and in some other places to develop the railway. Moreover, honourable Member, you are talking about serious thousands of billions, while this is not the case, and you know it, because I said it last week in the debate of the law, but you, too, and all kinds of false-news portals on the left, are regularly alarming people, claiming untruths. Please be fair. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-04-14-85	Dear Secretary of State, I agree that your spiritual ancestors, who have also preceded you in government, have pursued a serious rail-destructive policy by Balliberal governments, but you have done so exactly ten years ago. Mr State Secretary, you kept repeating two false arguments in last week's debate, which we have consistently refuted, that we are not anti-railers, we are not anti-investment, but we are opposed to pointless investments, which are being made from nearly HUF 1000 billion of Hungarian taxpayers' money. Mr Secretary, in four hours last week, you couldn't answer the very simple question that if you think you're right, then why are the relevant documents encrypted, why are the contracts encrypted? But you don't even answer, Mr State Secretary, exactly what grounding documents and calculations you have at your disposal, nor have you replied, Mr State Secretary, during the four-hour debate last week, about how the Hungarian public could not know these documents and calculations, but it turned out in the debate that there was a pro-government representative who had seen these documents, but I didn't try to get them as responsible Members of Parliament, but I couldn't do it. So if you think you're right, why are you hiding it, why are you trying to keep the documents confidential for ten years? Thank you.
u2020-04-14-86	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. The Secretary of State has the floor.
u2020-04-14-87	Thank you. Honourable Congressman, Then I'll try to explain it again in a minute. On the one hand, the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád or -Nándorfehérvár railway line is part of the so-called TEN-T core network and is therefore an obligation for Hungary to upgrade and expand its capacity. I also said that in the debate last week. In addition, travel time decreased significantly, approximately a third, in the Budapest-Belgrád context. In addition, with the renewal of the railway line, Hungary will offer the fastest transport route for Chinese goods between the ports of Greece and Western Europe. As a transit country for freight transport from Asia to Europe, Hungary will also benefit from this, making Hungary the number one logistics centre of the region. As far as encryption is concerned, honourable Member, the disclosure of the data contained in the documents for establishing decisions in the contracts concluded in connection with the modernisation of the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line would jeopardise the enforcement of Hungary's foreign policy and external economic interests without undue external influence. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Péter Szijjártó was entitled to reply. I'll ask the congresswoman, the head of the faction, to accept her identity. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-14-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I also accepted your answer because, obviously, in times of distress, the government is even more united... [[Peter Szijjártó intervenes.]] As you put it, even you are good, but that is not what it is, but that the government is obviously more united at a time like this, and the right hand knows what the left hand is doing, so even if my question is not about foreign policy issues, I hope you can answer what is going on in health care. To be exact, why do you let Miklós Kásler run this life-threatening rampage he's running in hospitals right now? We know that in such an epidemic, the fact that he is firing otherwise widely recognized hospital directors and managers is even more dangerous to patients or future patients, but the fact that he orders that 36,000 beds be freed by these hospitals, and he intends to do so by sending home cancer patients with end stage care, is quite amazing, and you know it's life-threatening. Yesterday, Örs Farkas, their colleague in charge of government information, refused to answer this question in the Straight Speech, said he didn't know, so let's ask the EMMI. We also hear that, on the one hand, you do not agree with this in your government, there is outrage within the Fidesz. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Let us ask how long to allow this type of life - threatening activity of a ten - commanded, otherwise dilettant man. Can't you expect relatives to take old cancer patients home, how can you expect them not to receive chemotherapy? [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: They do!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Let us ask how long to allow this type of life - threatening activity of a ten - commanded, otherwise dilettant man. Can't you expect relatives to take old cancer patients home, how can you expect them not to receive chemotherapy? (Dr. Bence Rétvári: They Do!) Those who have heart problems are also sent home, disabled patients are sent home from the rehabilitation facility, why are they not placed in sports halls (Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes) or establish hospitals, as before, or as they do in other countries, why not transform other buildings, on the one hand? And in my rejoinder, I'm gonna ask you my second question. Thank you.
u2020-04-14-90	Thank you, Madam Group Leader. The Minister has the opportunity to answer.
u2020-04-14-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for asking me that question. What concerns the functioning of the health care system during the pandemic period, I can tell you that it is the government's responsibility to organise protection on all fronts, and one of the most important fronts of this defense is health protection, and the fundamental condition of the success of health protection is that we have the necessary special equipment and equipment for protection. That is why we work practically day and night to get the masks, the ventilators, the protective clothing elements that are needed to ensure that doctors and nurses can provide the best possible security for their work. The government's measures aim to reduce the rate of spread of the epidemic, so that the health care system can provide care to all; not only for patients suffering from the coronal virus, but for everyone suffering from a different type of disease. Some of them mentioned patient groups, if I may say so, the congresswoman. I can assure you that, based on information from the Ministry of Human Resources, patients who need care, treatment or, as you may say, have not been expelled from hospitals or institutions who need care or treatment have not been expelled. I myself do not have the contrary information, so I ask you to accept this information from the Ministry of Human Resources. At the same time, allow us to ensure our appreciation for all the doctors and nurses who are doing their job in the face of these extraordinary challenges. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-92	Thank you, Minister. The leader of the group has the floor.
u2020-04-14-93	Minister, you have not answered my question, but let me start by saying that we have the highest mortality rate in the whole region, and indeed in Europe, at 8 percent. If you look at what the operational tribe sends out every day, you can see that it doesn't exceed 8 percent anywhere, but mostly 2-3-4 percent in Slovakia, Poland. [[13.20]] In Romania alone, it achieves a similar mortality rate as we do. Why would you expect 36,000 diseases if you were willing to do 34,000 tests so far? We also asked you to carry out a wide range of tests. We are also the last in Europe to know that you are not willing to take tests. So what you're saying is not true. It's not true that hospitals are otherwise equipped with masks. You sent 500,000 or 100,000 masks, I don't know exactly, 100,000 to Northern Macedonia, without enough masks. In addition, tell me, Minister, why the rate of spread is decreasing by sending patients home. Anyway, let me tell you, they do send people home who can't take it, they get notice, if they don't have it, if they don't go to the hospitals, they'll be delivered to the given address by the ambulance. Well, what an inhumane thing to do? ! Here's to moving Miklós Kásler now, because it's a life-threatening thing this man is doing!
u2020-04-14-94	Thank you, Congresswoman, Madam Group leader. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
u2020-04-14-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Member, with all due respect, I must reject your claim that I did not speak the truth about the tests, because I did not say that word in my reply. [[Defiance.]] What I can tell you is... [[Szabó Timea: No jokes!]] I do not want to make jokes about this issue, but I just want to say that during a pandemic, perhaps there should be less room for anger and that we should engage in a dialogue based on common sense and mutual respect. I'll try this one. You are right, the issue of special protective equipment is very important, so I would like to inform you that we have so far brought 46 854 820 masks into the country, which were first placed in the warehouse of the State Healthcare Services Centre, and then into hospitals and clinics. As regards tests, we have contracted 3 305 001 tests for the delivery to Hungary, of which 352 327 tests have been received. In terms of protective equipment, we have contracted for more than 47 million and more than 20 million have arrived. You can be sure, Madam Congresswoman, that I will personally ensure that the purchase of these protective equipment continues, so that doctors and nurses can do their job safely. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-96	Thank you, Minister. Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: "How is the acquisition of the necessary resources to control the epidemic? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-97	Dear Minister, The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has a number of tasks in relation to the control of the coronal virus epidemic. These include, among other things, ensuring the smoothness of international freight traffic, protecting border jobs, helping Hungarian communities across the border and bringing home Hungarians who are stranded and want to return home abroad. As far as the latter is concerned, during the biggest return operation in Hungary's history, the government has helped some 8,000 Hungarian citizens to get home, and is currently organizing the path of nearly a thousand people. The most important task, however, is undoubtedly to get all the medical supplies that are necessary for the prolonged defense ahead of us. To this end, Hungary has established an air bridge with China, thanks to which in recent weeks dozens of aircraft have delivered various medical devices to Budapest. The last six aircraft arrived at dawn yesterday with a total of 5 million 300 thousand masks and 6 million gloves on board, so the total number of masks purchased through the air bridge is over 40 million, and the total number of other protective equipment is 33 million. In addition, 152 respirators and 133,000 tests arrived earlier. It also comes from China, a series of machines set up last week in Sátoraljaújhely, capable of producing 2.8 million masks per month. Dear Minister, Congratulations on your activities so far, and thank you for that. What additional purchases are expected in the near future through this air bridge? And in particular, how does the production and transportation of respirators develop, of which we ordered 14,490, but do we know that every piece has to be fought? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-98	I give the floor to Minister.
u2020-04-14-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me give you a quick report. So far, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has provided assistance in bringing home 8624 Hungarian citizens stranded beyond the border, and we are currently working on the return of 735 Hungarian citizens. As opportunities for international aviation are shrinking, this issue is becoming increasingly acute, but we are also conducting serious bilateral and basically Central European cooperation to bring home all our Hungarian countrymen stranded abroad. You mentioned the maintenance of the smooth movement of goods. I respectfully inform you that we have concluded an agreement to facilitate commuting with 5 out of the 7 neighbouring countries, and we have managed to maintain the smoothness of international freight traffic with all 7 neighbouring countries. Even with Ukraine and Serbia completely closing its borders, we have been able to keep open crossings where the possibility of crossing has been opened for freight traffic. With regard to the procurement of assets, I can tell you that 26 aircraft have delivered the special protection equipment to Hungary in the last week, the largest batch of masks. In the last week, 13 207 200 masks, 6 203 096 protective suits and 155 008 tests have been sent to Hungary, as well as 101 respirators. Indeed, you are right, the most complicated issue is the acquisition of these latter devices, since the whole world is lining up for respirators in China, a quantity that may seem unrealistic during a period not affected by a pandemic, and that is why Chinese factories that can produce such devices now have huge orders. You are right, we have to fight for every single piece, but we are trying to deliver the entire contract stock to Hungary. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-100	Thank you, Minister. Congressman's got the floor.
u2020-04-14-101	Mr Minister, the strange, to say, absurd situation has arisen that, while everyone in your ministry is working day and night to achieve these purchases and that all the necessary means are available, some of your foreign ministers are working to save their own citizens, instead of spending their time trying to understand the Hungarian Crown Virus Act maliciously. This is based on the accounts of international pseudo-news companies, and they form an opinion that they obviously do not know the legislation at all. Thus, among other things, the law suspended the operation of the Hungarian Parliament and did not meet for an indefinite period of time. Special recognition and thanks to the Minister for his patience with CNN's reporter last time, and congratulations on his brave stand. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-102	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
u2020-04-14-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If you are studying today's European political dialogue, you are likely to be able to ask yourself a rhetorical question, which is, by definition, difficult, or at least impossible. How can it be that there are still dozens of people in Europe who are in charge who are free to do so? While in Europe tens of thousands of people are infected with the virus every day, while thousands of people die every day in Europe, there are still European politicians who are called leaders, the most important question is who can decide, under the Hungarian Crown Virus Act, when the emergency will end. It's hard for us to think of, I'll tell you honestly. I encourage us to deal with ourselves, to protect Hungarian people, their lives and their health, to restart the economy, and to bring home Hungarians stranded abroad. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-104	Thank you, Minister. Gergely Farkas, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda was entitled to reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take it. [[On the mark of Gergely Farkas:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman. [[13.30]]
u2020-04-14-105	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, my fellow Members and I have made a number of suggestions on what should be done to help the people who have been in trouble with the situation created by the Crown Virus. I would now like to speak in the interest of a social group who are at risk not only of everyday consumption, but also of housing. These are the people who live in Hungary today. 14 percent of the Hungarian adult society live in apartments, most of them are market based, so they do not live in local government rentals, but live in market based apartments and apartments. In many cases, as in other sections of society, they have lost their income, were sent on unpaid leave, or had just been laid off, and it is not enough that they cannot afford to make a living every day, but also have to pay the rent and the rent. Just because the rent is likely to be an important income for the owner of the apartment, so if the person living in the apartment can't pay it, it will continue to affect and then the owner of the apartment will feel the effects of the missing income. It is important to note that not all people living in apartments are in trouble in a uniform way, since there are people here who have incomes, who are not badly affected by the coronal virus, but there are those who, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, can be hundreds of thousands of people who cannot pay the rent due at the end of the month and the overhead costs. The question arises from this: what kind of assistance the government intends to provide, since there was no indication of this in the measures notified so far. So I ask the Secretary of State what kind of help they provide to those who have lost their income because of the corona virus, but who still have to pay the rent. I look forward to your substantive response on behalf of hundreds of thousands of our countrymen. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-14-106	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2020-04-14-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, it's an overestimation of my ability to come up with the thoughts of either my minister or anyone else. If the question concerned what the Minister responsible for innovation and technology thought about this, then allow me to say that I cannot answer it, but I can answer what he said on his question, and perhaps that is more important. We believe that it is also necessary to protect jobs and replace jobs destroyed by the virus, to create new jobs so that people, Hungarian workers, Hungarian families can finance the costs necessary for their lives or for their housing. That is why I consider it particularly important that Jobbik and the other opposition parties do not hinder, but help the government work, in which we try to implement the measures necessary to create jobs and protect jobs as effectively as possible. Mr President, what you have raised is indeed an important issue, and we will also address the question of how rental conditions and these legal situations can be dealt with in such a way that it is as good as possible for all parties involved. As you have said, there are indeed two fairs here, because on the one hand we must find a solution for the landlord and on the other hand for the landlord, which is acceptable and fair for both of them. Honourable Congressman, Finding this solution is not easy, and it does not necessarily require the same solution for everyone. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-108	It's up to Congressman.
u2020-04-14-109	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In the first half of his response, he referred to the work-based society, which can be supported in the normal period, and we are on the same side. However, we are not talking about a normal period. So when it comes to the fact that a fellow countryman has to pay his bills or pay his rent, it is not possible to say that he will succeed in creating new jobs and will have an income in a few months, because he will have to pay them now. But I'm trying to be positive. You mentioned that you were thinking about it. At the same time, I must draw attention to the time factor here. As I said, these bills, these rents, they have to be paid now. It's very good that you're thinking, but I'm asking you to think a little faster. And let me give you an example: Spain has an already existing example of this: a fund has been created to help people living in apartments. Of course, you'll have to show proof of loss of income, rent, but you've already made it there. They've been able to do this in Spain for several weeks, so please don't delay any longer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-14-110	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2020-04-14-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to say once again what we have said many times today, that we do not want to give aid to people, but we want to give them a job, so that they can pay the debts they have. Allow me to draw attention once again to the fact that this is about the partnership between the landlord and the landlord and its agreement. I think that it is fair to expect many, many of our fellow Hungarians, even when, if they understand the request of their tenants, they can reschedule the salary or allow the rent. I can suggest to everyone that they try to do the same. On the other hand, I can also say, honourable Member, that government measures have already been taken to make everyday living easier. Just think of the possibility of financing the cost of living a day from a loan linked to adult education, or even taking on extraordinary student loans in view of the situation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, István Hollik, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: - How does the government help Hungarians across the border during the coronal virus epidemic? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, In 2010, the Hungarian Parliament was able to remedy the historical wound that the socialists and liberals made in 2004 and in 2010 the Fidesz-KDNP majority Parliament adopted the rules for simplified localization. In doing so, we have created the opportunity for Hungarians who are stuck on the other side of the country border under the Trianon peace dictatorship to view themselves as Hungarian citizens in a legal sense. The historical significance of the decision is no more justified than the fact that we have been through the one millionth naturalization ever since. At the same time, the granting of Hungarian citizenship is not only a matter of honour, it is a matter of conscience, it also means that the current Hungarian state has a responsibility not only to its citizens living within its borders but also to those living outside it, as we say, all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. This sense of responsibility for the nation governs the government and Fidesz-KDNP when we talk about the prosperity of the Carpathian Basin, cross-border nationalisation cultural programmes or economic recovery measures managed by your wallet. At the same time, not only in good times and in development, but also in a crisis, we must join forces and look after each other. Protection against the corona virus is hard on all European countries, including our neighbours. All states are in competition with time, but unfortunately health and supply conditions are not always available for protection. I would like to ask the Minister my question in this context. Will Hungary receive a number of instruments that will enable our countrymen across the border to be helped? With what help can they calculate in the Highlands, Transylvania, Szeklerland, Transcarpathia, Slavonia, Mura and Vojvodina? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-114	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State has the floor.
u2020-04-14-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important questions today is, indeed, which of the world's countries has sufficient means to ensure the success of health protection. This is the case with Hungary. Between China and Hungary, we operate a continuously operating air bridge, through which tens of millions of special defence equipment have arrived in Hungary in recent years. However, from all Hungarian national communities across borders, honourable Member, we have received a call for help to send them the tools for health protection, otherwise they do not have them. Today we have heard calls from our opposition colleagues here about how much better the situation is in Romania, how much better it is in Slovakia, and how much better it is to apply the model of this country or that country. Of course, all our respect for all our neighbouring countries was not for them, but rather for the proposals made by our opposition fellow Members. [[13.40]] At the same time, we received requests from all communities across the border, so we decided to send help to Transylvania, Transcarpathia, Highlands, Vojvodina, Slavonia and Mura. With the exception of Transcarpathia, the other five Hungarian national communities across the border received protective equipment. With regard to Transcarpathia, I have also discussed with the Ukrainian Foreign Minister today that we should get the permits as soon as possible so that the Ecumenical Aid Organisation can deliver the protective equipment. Overall, we provided 700,000 masks, 7,000 glasses, 32,000 protective suits, 200,000 gloves, 10,000 caps, 7,000 face protectors, 20,000 shoe protectors and 32,000 units of antiseptic fluid at the end of the last week to Hungarian communities across the border for the success of health protection. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-14-116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman's got the floor.
u2020-04-14-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Two thanks to the government. On the one hand, because, unfortunately, we can see that there are opposition factions for whom the unification of the nation has not yet come, and there are those who object to it, and are outraged that Hungary is also helping Hungarians across the border by means of health care. The first thanks are therefore for ignoring these opposition charges. The other thanks are because, in the light of the measures that you have just said, Minister, we can say that the government is also paying attention to our fellow countrymen across the border in this difficult crisis and that we are helping them in terms of our opportunities, in terms of the country's potential. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-14-118	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State has the answer.
u2020-04-14-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the reason why we can help you across the border is that we can help some of the neighbouring countries and the countries of the Western Balkans, because on the one hand there is an air bridge between China and Hungary and, on the other hand, because we can make masks ourselves thanks to an imported line of machines, so we have the opportunity to help others. However, I would also like to say here that we are not only helping but also helping us. Although the list of countries that seek our assistance is undoubtedly longer, there is also a list of countries that help us. In addition to the products ordered from China, we received many tens of thousands of protection tools. Turkey has authorised exports of 8 tonnes of raw material necessary for the production of masks. So far we have received 150,000 masks from Uzbekistan as a donation, and today another 500,000 are arriving through Bakun, and the Azerbaijani government has already sent us help to defend it. It is therefore important to say that we have received support from both China and the Member States of the Turk Council. This will have to be an important consistency when we redirect the political and economic convergences of this crisis to a previous comment. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-14-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. János Bencsik, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The emergency situation calls for extraordinary measures." Due to the absence of Prime Minister, Minister Péter Szijjártó was entitled to reply. I'm asking you to accept the Minister's identity. [[On the sign of János Bencsik:]] Then you have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-121	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, I firmly believe that there is no place for party political and political mud throwing in times of emergency, so I have tried to lead with a good example in recent weeks by presenting proposals for decisions that serve the safety and health of all Hungarian citizens. I am confused about the fact that, not only are they not allowed to be put into debate, but they are also hindering the inclusion of the committee on the agenda. Only today, two proposals for decisions were not allowed to be discussed by the Commission. I'd like to know why. I will list these motions. On the 12th of March, I initiated that the public sector workers who were unable to go to work due to quarantine would be paid by the state for a period of absence. On 18 March, I initiated the involvement of private healthcare providers so that municipalities that would like to relieve GPs from the burden of testing and screening could do so. Unfortunately, because of this uncertain legal situation, they do not have the opportunity to do so. On March 19th, I presented a proposal for a decision that initiated the expansion of the loan repayment moratorium and extended it to those who have pre-savings, so they pay house savings, they have a private pension fund membership, they have life insurance to give them the opportunity not to have to pay until the end of the year. On 20 March, I initiated an ad hoc committee to examine the allocation of EU funds to Hungary. This was also voted out today. On 27 March, I initiated that those at increased risk, workers who suffer from chronic illness or respiratory disease, who, therefore, expose themselves to life-threatening risks, if they go to work, will also receive their wages. And this morning, I presented a sixth proposal for a resolution proposing that hand sanitizers, protective equipment, masks, which we can now use free of customs and tariff in Hungary, so let's extend this to shop traffic, so that all citizens can obtain these protective equipment free of charge. I would like to ask why they do not allow these issues to be put on the agenda and the start of the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-04-14-122	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2020-04-14-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for raising these issues here at the plenary session of Parliament. I thank you for wanting to keep this important issue discussed, as you said at the beginning of your speech, free of party political debate. I, too, think that it is important to stand against a global epidemic to overcome party political conflicts, for example, not to argue that Hungarian national communities across borders need support or that creating jobs is a good thing or not. As I understand it, honourable Member, the proposals for decisions you have put forward are all about how to help those social groups that are perhaps the best exposed to all the challenges and challenges that the pandemic presents to them. I can tell you here, honourable Member, that our conscience can be clean, because the measures that we have taken to strengthen health and to provide resources, and the decisions that we have taken to restart the economy, are a help to Hungary, are a help to all Hungarian people. We have already debated these issues for a long time here in Parliament. These debates are likely to continue, which is why you are sitting in opposition, and we are on the pro-government side. We believe that the measures that we have taken are the decisions that we have taken to give the country's current capacity to bear the burden to help the people in difficulty. You can be sure that your proposals will be received with respect and will always be considered, but consideration does not always mean agreement. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-14-124	Thank you, Minister. Congressman's got the floor.
u2020-04-14-125	Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid I haven't been given any answers to my questions, but I'm taking advantage of the rest of this less than a minute to ask you more. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that he could confirm that the objective is to maintain a low budget deficit, which could mean two things: either they will not receive any meaningful help from those in trouble now, or there will be austerity. I would like to ask Minister that Hungarian companies and entrepreneurs have something to fear, that taxes and contributions will increase. Do the municipalities have anything to fear of freezing payments on government bonds? Should women be afraid of losing their early retirement after 40 years of work? Should college students and college students be afraid that the number of state-funded places will continue to decline? Is it expected to raise VAT? Can you expect an increase in excise duty, insurance tax, interest tax, expected to cut public services? I would like to ask you that all Hungarians, which are now terrified of, look to the future with uncertainty, give me a reassuring answer that they will not be able to do so, or that if you cannot give a reassuring answer to these questions, please admit that you have no real idea that such restrictions can be expected. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of the independent and the Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-14-126	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
u2020-04-14-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I think you have been following the internal political processes of the last ten years in Hungary. Based on this, your questions are completely unnecessary. Constraints are not applied by this government, but by the preceding. Taxes were not raised by this government, but by previous governments. We are the government of tax cuts. We have introduced a proportionate single-key tax system for personal income tax and corporate tax. We have reduced and will reduce the rate of social contribution tax again this year, as previously agreed: we will also reduce this tax from 17.5 per cent in the summer to 15.5 per cent. [[13.50]] We are not thinking about austerity, we are thinking about job creation. We do not provide the country to speculators and those who want to drive us into austerity, but in contrast, we reduce taxes, create jobs, and, of course, there is no threat to women's retirement after 40 years of service. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-14-128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why are resources being taken from the municipalities? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister, Minister Péter Szijjártó has been given the right to reply, and I ask him to accept his identity. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, In these weeks, governments all over the world are thinking about how they can basically transfer funds to two very important areas of defence; on the one hand, to areas affected by the crisis, to areas that lose most in these weeks and need the greatest help. On the other hand, they're trying to transfer resources to the front line of defense. You've both been seriously criticized. In the areas affected by the crisis, they make selective, inadequate decisions, and a lot of people feel left alone. And many times, late or not enough help comes to the front line of defense. However, there is an area that is completely misinterpreted for you, which is the territory of the municipalities. The world of municipalities is a crisis-stricken area, and the frontline of defence is also the frontline of local government workers. So the policy that you are pursuing in these weeks, in Hungarian, is truly incomprehensible, and that you are drawing funds from the authorities that are in a difficult situation. From the Fund, very serious losses in revenue affect municipalities. Let us not forget that local governments organize things that determine people's everyday lives: they maintain public transport, investments, public services, so every single forint they take from local governments is money taken from people, which is why it is intolerable. They took 40 percent of the car tax, which was still in place in the municipalities, and freed parking fees and tourist tax without compensation. There are billions of losses in each major county-righted city and, overall, tens of billions in the municipal sphere. I have three questions, Minister. Why do they withdraw funds from local governments? Second, when will the costs of protection be reimbursed to the municipalities? The third is: are there plans for consolidation in the local government sphere, in particular with regard to municipal trustees and public service providers? I would like concrete answers to these. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-04-14-130	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State.
u2020-04-14-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to tell you that the debate between us is not new, I mean, personally, that when a country is in a difficult situation, everyone has to take on the burden, or that we leave the common word out of sharing the burden. This was also the case in 2010 when we discussed how to transform the tax system and who we should involve in sharing the burden that you like to release from it. When we are talking about the challenge of a pandemic and we are talking about the response to it, I think it is obvious that everyone must take part in the defence, because if you look at the changes we are going to make in the budget, then, in parallel with the establishment of the epidemiological and economic protection fund, parties, banking operators and municipalities must play a role in the burden of protection. There is also no doubt that the municipalities have to transform their farming, but not just because they have to bear the burden of combating the epidemic, but because there are simply other times coming. What could have been a preference when drawing up this year's budget is now likely to go further in the order of importance, and we are living in different times than when local governments planned their budgets. However, I would like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that the tax on motor vehicles on municipal budgets represents 1.2 percent on the revenue side, so to put this question as ruining local governments is a bit excessive. And I would also like to tell you that the economic results of the last ten years have put the municipalities in a position that makes it easier for them to take their share of the public burden, as if they had to do so before 2010. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-14-132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm very disappointed. You didn't answer any of my questions specifically. Therefore, it did not justify why new burdens are being placed on the municipalities, thus on the people. He did not say that the defence costs would be part of the central budget, in this sense the government, or that consolidation could be expected by the municipalities. I see that the municipalities have to deal not only with the burden of the crisis, but also with the government's policy. This is certainly unacceptable. I would like to say, Minister, that if you do not change your policy in this regard, then by summer there will be very serious problems for municipalities in Hungary. I see that there will be dozens of municipalities with very serious problems with payments, whether they have problems with paying wages or maintaining basic public services. This is unacceptable, Minister, change your policy. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2020-04-14-134	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2020-04-14-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, You are certainly right that government economic policy has a huge impact on the functioning of municipalities. Therefore, I think that, on this issue, not only will we stop comparing it with your previous performance, but there are some facts that I would like to draw your attention to. The government freed the municipalities from a debt of HUF 1369 billion, we took over, in whole or in part, the operation of tasks that the municipalities could not perform in an appropriate or even manner. The possibility of borrowing has been put within a reasonable framework and we have also provided priority resources to approximately 1100 to 1200 municipalities, who are without the loan. So, honourable Member, you are right in that government policies play a major role in shaping local government operations, and in this respect, in the last ten years, the cooperation of government and local governments, the opportunities provided by the government, have given the municipalities all the conditions of balanced and developmental management. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-14-136	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What will happen to rural Hungary affected by the virus and the government? In response to the Minister's absence, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás appointed Secretary of State. I'm asking you to accept your identity. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, All indications are that your government is unable to overcome the crisis that has developed and is growing, because rather than crisis management, they are conducting a campaign of propaganda and revenge. Hospital directors are being fired, local governments are being grinded, and they're still not doing any tests to avoid finding out how many people are actually infected in the country. While you are doing magic with numbers and words, you are taking pretend measures, thousands of Hungarians are losing their jobs every day. People and families who do not have a penny of savings and who have lived from salary to payment have become unemployed. You're not helping him, you're kicking these people in the ditch with a pair of feet. What did the Prime Minister's advisor László Parragh say? They don't know what to do with all these unemployed people. If it does, it will be based on a political decision. I mean, only the Fidesz can count on some help, if they can count on it at all, and I'm just telling you that in nearly half the county-righted cities, most of them are no longer fidesz. Do you really want to punish the people of the cities just because they didn't vote for you? Well, I think it's outrageous. We know that you know this: in the last ten years, you have built stadiums rather than hospitals. Instead of health care and education, one of the smartest gasmen in the world was raised to the European level and their pockets were filled with billions. We also know that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are in the process of being destroyed, without work, but you are giving the dear son-in-law another two billion forints to build a yacht port in Balaton. Secretary of State, I am now interpreting the call for help of rural Hungary, the poor rural people, of whom more than 300,000 are now unemployed. And the question is clear: are you even aware of the seriousness of the situation? [[14.00]] What does the government intend to do to save families and businesses in the countryside? What about the tens of thousands of public workers? What about the people who will soon starve in the countryside because of inflation and unemployment? Thank you very much and I look forward to your reply.
u2020-04-14-138	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2020-04-14-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In his immediate question, he managed to collect quite a lot from the propaganda resulting from DK's previous opposition behaviour, but it seems that these issues still have nothing to do with reality. You question the effectiveness of the measures taken by the government in terms of protection; you question the numbers that the operational tribe makes public about the number of infected. Honourable Congressman, With regard to figures, it is always said that we are talking about tested cases, we are talking about certified patients, but at the same time we can all see that if we compare the number of people who are dead or need intensive care, then it can be said from a European perspective and from the rest of the world that defence, defence and measures taken by the government are effective. And that is because citizens, unlike you or your senses, are cooperating with the government and feel the shared responsibility that the management of the epidemic requires of us. It is not the conflagration and confrontation of the countryside and Budapest that can lead us to overcoming the epidemic and to solving economic problems, but that Hungarian society, in conjunction with the Hungarian government, the Hungarian authorities, manages the situation together and jointly. The Hungarian government has done a great deal to help everyone, to help businesses, businesses and companies get through the difficult situation, and further measures will be taken to get economic growth started as soon as possible and to get the country back on its feet. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-14-140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman's got the floor.
u2020-04-14-141	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sad to hear your answer. Actually, I didn't expect anything else. He did not answer one question, although the questions were clear. We are clearly curious why the oligarchs, Ripper, the Prime Minister's son-in-law and his dear family fill their pockets as if there were no tomorrow, while the people in the countryside are slowly starving. The question is this, not what you answered. But while we are at it, we must clearly see that numbers are stubborn and that, according to numbers, we have one of the highest mortality rates in Europe. So, please, stop your flickering. Stop propaganda and grow up to this crisis, try to solve this, because this is not gonna work. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-14-142	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2020-04-14-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman, you should use the simple basic principles of mathematics: look at the number of people who are dead per 10 million inhabitants and then talk about what numbers there are in Europe. The fact that you're bluffing and talking doesn't make any sense. He insulted health care, he insulted health promotions. Honourable Congressman, We spent 570 billion forints on health care development, and we spend 770 billion a year more than when you were in the government. Smile at that, Your Honour. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-14-144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Who thinks of the social sector? It's an address. Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to your absence. I'm asking you to accept your identity. [[Peter Ungár nodds.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-145	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, The fact that Hungarians working for the state are doing great work in the current epidemic situation, we all see it. It's no different with social workers. That is why I do not understand it, and I ask the Secretary of State to explain why social workers have not received any one-off benefits, like health workers, because they are equally exposed to the epidemic and are also doing superhuman work for 0-24 hours. At the same time, I'd like to come up with another case, which is quite shocking to me. On Thursday evening, the Ministry of Human Resources sent a proposal on the status of civil servants to the trade unions. Tuesday morning was given a deadline, so in the middle of an epidemic, the Easter weekend was given to comment on such a serious law. Moreover, these trade unions have not been able to carry out concrete consultations, as they are unable to meet each other or the Ministry in person. The fact is that the workers in vocational training have already been removed from the status of civil servants by Fidesz, which is what they want to do to cultural workers, because you are doing everything you can to ensure that those who work for the state do not have a uniform force to combat their labour law. This is because these people are given greater security than the Labour Code from the status of civil servants, they should be taken away from them. It is nice to have the 6 percent increase that cultural workers have received, but this 6 percent increase does not satisfy them at all, as in 2015 you first promised a career model to cultural workers, the career model that has been introduced only at PIM. The fact is that these people are also carrying out an essential task, especially for a government that considers itself to be a national government. My question is why cultural workers are being treated so badly right now. [[Applause from the benches of DK and Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-14-146	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2020-04-14-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is obviously not possible to talk in two minutes about the whole social sphere and the whole cultural sphere, but it is important to say, Mr President, that from January this year a 14 percent wage increase has been made in the social sphere. Clearly, we all strive to make this as valuable as possible. But, as it was before, in 2014 sectoral wage supplements, then sectoral wage supplements, a combined bonus increase, so several increases have been made in recent years, and this year the average wage in the social sphere could continue to increase by an average gross of HUF 30 thousand, I think that is also a step forward for many. And if you look at how they were financially valued during the previous period, you can see that there was a year when there was a drop in salaries. Here, fortunately, we are faced with such an increase in salaries. The other area that was concerned was that a bill would be put forward by the government, and before it was submitted to Parliament, it was sent to the sectoral actors in relation to the cultural sphere. You mentioned it. We're talking about a raise there, too. So this year, not only for health professionals, not only for teachers, not only for those working in the social sphere, but also for those working in the cultural sphere, the government has decided to raise wages and generate additional resources for this, and a legislative amendment is also being made. All you have said for weeks is that Parliament will now be eliminated and there will be no legislation in Hungary. They will now be confronted with the submission of legislative proposals, which the government has partially indicated earlier, in which areas it intends to submit legislative proposals. Now they are criticising why there is legislation in Parliament, and it is obviously preceded by a sectoral consultation with sectoral stakeholders before it is submitted to Parliament. And here in this debate, you and anyone else will have the opportunity to submit an amendment as usual. So one day they wake up and they criticize why there won't be a parliament, why the necessary decisions won't be made, and the next they say why there are so many proposals on Parliament's table. Looks like it's just a matter of getting up on the right or on the left. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If that's the case, if that's the case, you're criticizing both of them with the same temperament. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-14-148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman's got the floor.
u2020-04-14-149	Calling it a sectoral consultation, however, that they gave trade unions a long weekend is a high category of clowning. The fact is, there's a reason why every union is protesting against this bill. Maybe you should think of Mr. Secretary of State that he's on the freeway, not everyone else. The fact is that a man working in a museum does not make 200,000 forints net. This 6-percent increase is not going to solve this. The career model would have been a solution the union demanded. They couldn't submit it, but they gave me an Easter weekend to put in another step in breaking up civil servant status. My question is yet to be asked, and please, this is a serious question, try to answer specifically: you can promise me here on the record that there will be no more sectors for which you will be proposed to be excluded from the Public Employee Act. [[14.10]] Tell me that it is not true that you systematically want to build Kjt. in Hungary! Thank you.
u2020-04-14-150	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2020-04-14-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If the Member looks at any sector where the employees are in the status of civil servants, some of the employees consider this to be good, and another part sees an obstacle, rather a bond that hinders their operation; there is one, there is one. If you ask the trade unions, everyone there is, of course, almost everyone, and most of them are obviously the KT. in favour, but this is not necessarily the opinion of the employees there; this is the opinion of the trade unions to maintain their own trade union operation. I think if you look at the budget laws, if you look at the funds for cultural purposes around 2010, they were somewhere around a large HUF 100 billion, we are now around HUF 450 billion. We have increased the resources available for culture, national culture, and this includes the wage increase we are talking about. This obviously gives us a much greater flexibility, so we add additional resources to the whole sector, introduce a raise at the same time and make it more flexible and more manageable at the same time. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the legislation applicable in the sector. I think that these provide ideal conditions for truly strengthening cultural life and national culture in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What's going on? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai granted the State Secretary the right to reply. I'm asking you to accept your identity. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Let me begin with a recent quote:. It is time to consider the introduction of a universal basic income. This was not said by Timea Szabó, the leader and co-chair of the Dialogue, but not by Gergely Christmas, the other co-chair of the Dialogue, the mayor of Budapest, not even by Márta V. Naszályi, the dialogue mayor of the I. district, because he not only thoughtfully, but also introduces the basic income of crisis management. The quote came from Pope Francis. Two days ago, the Roman pope wrote in his circular on Easter Sunday that with the basic income and basic salary, I quote:, in particular, the human and Christian ideal would be available that there is no workers without rights. It was as if he had addressed his message to Hungary to the pope, a government that labeled himself a Hungarian and a Christian, where there are many workers without rights, and people's rights to social security do not prevail. If we look at the cataclysms that you have saved, for example, what happens is that you don't have to pay for a few months, but you don't get any income. And if they close the blinds or suspend their activities, let's say that those who have been cataloging for two years get less than HUF 45,000 per month net for two months. According to Ipsos' survey, 7 percent of the adult population have already lost their jobs and their livelihood. This means that there are more than two million people in Hungary who do not have a monthly income of at least HUF 100,000, to whom the basic proposal for a dialogue crisis management income applies. Two thirds of people have savings of up to one or two months or just one or two weeks, so the social crisis that lies ahead of us, if they continue to do so, will cause more serious damage than the coronal virus itself. Pope Francis also wrote: "I hope that this dangerous time will awaken our sleeping conscience and enable a humanist and ecological transformation that will put an end to the idolization of money and put human life and dignity at the centre. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Secretary of State, my question is: will the supposed Christian government accept the Roman Pope's proposal for a basic income?
u2020-04-14-154	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-04-14-155	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm honored you're asking the Minister of Finance what's going on? He quotes the Pope of Rome, then I say with goodwill about social security, basic income, the taxation of cataclysms, and then, later, about the lack of income for two million people, and then about the crisis. In the end, he doesn't know what he wants to ask the finance minister, or the government. On the other hand, I am telling you that in times of crisis, in times of emergency, Parliament's work should perhaps be taken more carefully and more seriously. I think that the basic question is when the country can overcome this virus situation, the pandemic, the government will do everything in its power, the communities, the people, the municipalities, the businesses, the families, to make Hungary a small sacrifice, with few sacrifices. The few sacrifices I've made to our health and, of course, to the economic consequences. I think that the government has taken the right steps to ensure that people are safe. For example, they do not have to repay their loans, repayments of capital and interest by 31 December. He took the steps to help self-employed people, clickers, so that they wouldn't have to pay taxes. It has taken the appropriate step towards businesses where no contributions are required, i.e. social contribution taxes, and has taken the appropriate steps towards those who have an interest in not losing their jobs, and that their business can pay employees' wages by sharing with the State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has the floor.
u2020-04-14-157	That answer was very weak. You should have been told according to your papers that we would create as many jobs as would be lost in the crisis, and then I would have told you to do so. But when, and what happens to the millions who have nothing to live on? And you should have said what Viktor Orbán said, that without performance, we do not give money to people. But it's an orbital orbánian nonsense that you don't seem to dare repeat. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: A little gentler.]] while it seems that this is the philosophy of the government, because their actions prove it. This may hurt, but it is factually true that Pope Francis, as a Christian humanist, is closer to me as a secular humanist than to the anti-Christian Fidesz government. [[An uproar in the pro-government ranks. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Brave! It's a good thing they built this building so well.]] So I really just want to open their eyes with a Bible quote. The book of Proverbs 14:21 says: "He that hateth his neighbor sineth; but he that doeth mercy to the poor is happy. I suggest that this be taken into account in the following areas. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-14-158	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2020-04-14-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Congressman. If you allow us to remain in parliamentary relations, you will ask the government, and the government will answer in order to do everything together in this situation where the country is and, by the way, the Pope wants us to get it over with as soon as possible in this country. You may now call on the Pope to achieve his political goals, to deliver his political messages, in my opinion, this is a very bad direction. If you've qualified my answer, I'm qualified for your question to deal with how this country can come out of this problem, this pandemic, the economic consequences of this, how it can get out of it. Instead, you're back in politics, politics, politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, László Böröcz, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: - How does the Government's economic protection measures affect the economic downturn caused by the coronal virus epidemic? In response to the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai granted the State Secretary the right to reply. I'm asking you to accept your identity. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2020-04-14-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Sorry about the little intermező, I trust that Mr Tordai will not only follow these proposals by Pope Francis and the Catholic Church, but everything else, and then the Dialogue may also become a better place in the ranks of the parties. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Since the outbreak of the coronal virus epidemic, the Government of Hungary has introduced a number of economic protection measures aimed at reducing the economic downturn caused by the epidemic, protecting jobs and creating new ones. Among the first, the obligation to pay capital and interest on loans from private individuals and businesses was suspended and the total rate of credit on consumer loans, APR, was maximized by the central bank's base rate plus 5%. Evictions, seizures and tax executions have been suspended, and existing tax debts will be sufficient to pay in the event of an emergency and after the end of an emergency. The rights of children, children and children in an emergency have been extended. [[14.20]] It is important to note that this year's suspension of credit repayments applies, of course, to baby shower loans as well as student loans. Thanks to the government's decision, more than 81 thousand small businesses were granted a temporary exemption from kata's payment until 30 June, and Hungary's media service providers were granted temporary tax exemptions due to the loss of advertising revenues, similar to tourism and catering. The government further expands the range of preferential loans with employer loans and extends this to the National Asset Management Programme. One of the main objectives of the recently introduced economic protection action plan is to preserve jobs. In the case of short-term work, the government is ready to take over 70% of the employer's wage costs, which is a special Hungarian form of wage support. I believe that these measures are very important to reduce the economic downturn, and the Fidesz fraction particularly welcomes the government's decision to try to save our economic results so far. I would ask the Secretary of State with respect how these measures affect the Hungarian economy. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-14-162	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-04-14-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to answer the questions raised from the Ministry of Finance's point of view and to discuss the measures taken by the Ministry of Finance in particular. It is very important that the country retains its budgetary balance. Instead of a 1 per cent deficit, we have increased the deficit to 2.7 per cent, which is still below 3 per cent, and I think that investors will appreciate this, expected after the economic difficulties have passed. Several tax measures have been taken. As you have said, there is no tax on jobs in difficulty of over 80,000, reduced rent is payable to more than 10 000 companies; there is no need to pay contributions or social contributions in sectors where turnover is not guaranteed. The tax executions you have mentioned are therefore tax executions, I stress, suspended. These companies have been granted a period of grace to fulfil their obligation to the State. But there are also payment facilitations that are possible from the point of view of businesses. The government expects the NAV to assess these requests fairly. I could continue and continue to ease the VAT refund, as the VAT refund deadline for reliable debtors has been reduced from 75 days to 30 days, from 30 days to 20 days, thereby creating significant liquidity relief for these companies. I think that in one minute, we will have a round picture of what the government has done in terms of budget and tax relief. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-14-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has the floor.
u2020-04-14-165	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. It is extremely important that we use the resources available to Hungary in the crisis in such a way that it is lost as little as possible and that we can use it as efficiently as possible to deal with the crisis. Obviously, it is important to protect the current jobs, and it is equally important to be able to create new jobs after lost jobs, because, as Minister Szijjártó has said several times today, one of the philosophical foundations of Hungarian economic policy is to build on the performance of the economy. With regard to the opposition, I would like to say that although, of course, respect for the exception, so far, there is much that has not been done to deal with the economic shock caused by the corona virus. I understand, of course, that you are used to the fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány had 30 programmes, which he announced, and none of them succeeded, but believe me, we will succeed now, as we managed to deal with the crisis after 2010. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-14-166	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2020-04-14-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One thing, though, is that when comparing the 2008-9 crisis with the current crisis, the two crises are certainly different in one thing, because then the state, essentially the government, became insolvent, and that is why it had to take on immediate credit. At present, however, workers, people, families, businesses, employers are in trouble, but the state, the budget, is not in trouble. After all, at this difficult time, we are not saying that we want to take out credit and finance the re-launch of the economy from it, but that we are going to use fiscal redeployment or a specific tax charge that will hit banks and multinational companies. So crisis management at that time and the current crisis management cannot be compared. There is one example. The Gyurcsány-Bajnai government has taken away the 13th month pension, and the Fidesz government is starting to rebuild it right now during the crisis. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-14-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question. It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence,... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: The minister is here!]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm confused. Mr. Secretary is here. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, During today, you have repeatedly expressed in this House how pleased you are that Hungary is helping the defence in the surrounding countries with protective equipment and masks. I do not want to disappoint Minister, but with respect I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungary does not share this pleasure. Hungary is not pleased that in the last few days and only a few examples I would like to mention to you now, we have given the Macedonians 100,000 masks for kissing. I don't know what you think, Minister, but what about the Hungarian general practitioners? Sew for you? Hungary is not happy that we gave our Croatian brothers a hundred thousand masks of comicalness. What about social and law enforcement workers? Do they have to do what they can? Or two hundred thousand masks were given to the Serbs, while, according to their own declaration, you have no idea how long this epidemic will last, how flattening this particular disease curve can be; and how long this emergency will last, how long will those people be exposed to the shortage of supplies of masks and health protection equipment; how long will people who meet others every day be exposed. And then I'll tell you what Hungary thinks, what the Hungarian people think about this government policy. That it is not now and at such a price that it is time for such diplomatic feats to help our neighbours, of course, we also need to help our neighbours, but only if we have secured all Hungarian citizens and we can be safe throughout the entire period of the epidemic. My question to you, Minister, is, God forbid, whoever dies because of this irresponsibleness, who will be the one to take responsibility. Who among you will look into the eyes of the relatives? Who among you will apologize to the families of the deceased? You, Minister? Thank you very much.
u2020-04-14-170	Thank you, Congressman. The Minister has the floor.
u2020-04-14-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You have been silent about this, which we have been convinced in the speeches before the agenda, that you do not support not only the assistance of the countries working closely with us and in interdependence, but also do not support the fact that we have given assistance to Hungarian national communities across borders. I'd like to inform you of the following. We have signed a contract for the purchase of 148 707 440 masks. Of which 46 854 820 arrived in Hungary. We are expecting a number of new shipments both today and this week; if necessary, honourable Member, we will, of course, conclude contracts for new deliveries and new quantities. As regards protective equipment, we have concluded a contract for the purchase of 47 753 741 protective equipment. Of these, 20 291 734 arrived in Hungary. [[14.30]] Once again, I can tell you that if we see that there is a need for more, we will, of course, order more. When I say that we see plural as a first person, obviously the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not see or see it as such, but those professionals who have the responsibility to decide that, and if they say that we should order more, we need more masks, we need more protective clothing, we will do this work on our own diplomatic channels. And of course, before we helped the Hungarian national communities across the border and helped those countries whose strength and ability to defend against the epidemic are closely related to our defence capabilities, of course, we also asked professionals, and the experts said that we could hand over so many protective equipment, given the contracted quantity, given the China-Hungary air bridge, and given the fact that we can make masks ourselves. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman's got the floor.
u2020-04-14-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary, where are these masks physically? Because these masks and these protective equipment, the way of these devices, we opposition representatives and the Hungarian public can see until the Prime Minister walks out to Ferihegy, the transporter arrives, the Prime Minister applauds them, elbows the pilot, and then you come here to Parliament and say you're bluffing these numbers, the 46 million masks, the 20 million protective equipment, the few thousand respirators. Minister, in the spirit of collegiality, allow me, as an opposition Member of Parliament, to see these masks, these protective equipment, to go to these warehouses as the chairman of the National Security Committee, to make sure, with my own eyes, that, when it is time and place, these masks will be handed over to general doctors, policemen and social workers in this amount. Promise me this, Minister, I can go to these warehouses. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-14-174	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
u2020-04-14-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You're talking about my colleagueship, and you're accusing me of bluffing here while we're working day and night to get the right amount of protective equipment into Hungary. You're either claiming that I'm lying or bluffing when I say the numbers, or the people who unload these protective equipment at the airport and take it to customs, and then take it to the central warehouse, you accuse them of doing something naughty, but then speak straight and clear. Be brave. Be brave and tell me who you're accusing of. Because you don't have to talk, you have to act. If you'd like the Secretary of State to give me an update on this at the National Security Committee meeting, I'd be very happy to do it. Invite me. If it were up to me, you'd be free to go to the state health care center's warehouse and look at these goods because they're there. My request, with all due respect, in the interest of the community, is to request the possibility of a visit to the Ministry of Maintenance of the State Health Services Center. I don't think so. [[To Dr. Bence Rétvári:]] Dear Secretary of State, I think you might encounter any kind of problem. You've seen a lot of footage from inside these warehouses. The thing is, there's no miracle or anything big here, the shipment arrives, it's taxed, it's taken to the central warehouse, and it's taken to the hospitals. That's what happens. In the spirit of collegiality. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-176	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: in Hungary, who is responsible for this? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister, Minister Péter Szijjártó was entitled to reply. Do you accept your identity? [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-14-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Not only is the coronal virus infected in Hungary today, but it is also the government's inhumane virus. During the holidays, we saw Minister Miklós Kásler dismissing the Director General of a county hospital and the Director General of the National Medical Rehabilitation Institute. But we also saw that there was news this weekend that patients from Jahn Ferenc Hospital are being sent to nursing homes that are impossible to provide. One of their readers contacted 24.hu by telling him on Friday, the ambulance will take home the mother of the homeless cancer patient at the hospital's premises in Csepel on Tuesday. The reader of hvg.hu reported that he was also called on Friday afternoon, that on Tuesday the ambulance would take home his helpless, semi-paralyzed father with several diseases, whose care would bring them to an unsolvable task. With a crowd of phones coming, they're sending patients home from hospitals, referring to the virus, to evacuate the classes; we also know that on Friday, the hospitals received a letter from Miklós Kásler calling on them to release at least 60% of the infirmary beds. Mr. Minister said here that one of the Members replied that our conscience could be clear about the decisions made in the health care sector. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: today, are families able to treat people with multiple severe diseases at home, say, to get an IV, to treat patients at home that only a hospital can do? Minister S, I have a question. Most of these elderly, very sick people at the time paid for their work; they paid because they were obliged to work in that system. These people are deprived of their fundamental rights by sending them home with a disease that family members cannot solve. I look forward to your reply to the Minister.
u2020-04-14-178	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2020-04-14-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I myself would not be brave enough to engage in medical disputes with you, so I would like to call upon the official information of the Ministry of Human Resources, on the one hand; on the other hand, I would like to inform you that, in the framework of the protection against global epidemics, there is a need for beds and hospital facilities in order for patients infected with the coronal virus to be treated. You know for sure that some mathematical models produce different results, of course, about how many percent of people infected with the coronal virus should be treated in the hospital and how many percent of them should be treated intensively. This obviously requires preparation from the Hungarian health care system. You've listed news portals. I would not like to launch a credible competition here between these and our Ministry of Health, and I myself, as a member of the government, would like to rely more on the information of the Ministry of Human Resources, which is saying and I ask you to accept that there has been no dismissal of patients in need of treatment, or, according to the Ministry, who have been dismissed from the hospital, who, with the medicines required for their care, have armed the families of the insured person and have provided these medicines. Believe me, honourable Member, no one wants to make a decision and I believe that the Minister for Health has not taken any decisions that would have created the situation you or certain news portals have described. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-180	Thank you, Minister. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2020-04-14-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, A pandemic is no reason to stop basic supply. I know, Minister, you say you don't want to replace the profession, and I would recommend to the Minister that you pay attention to the letter from the Medical Chamber last week, and I would quote from this. The Presidency of the Hungarian Medical Chamber warned that the health damage and possible death of patients left unattended or late may be of greater importance than the damage caused by the epidemic, and therefore no distinction should be made between the distribution of resources between patients infected with the virus and patients suffering from other diseases. You know, Minister, the only thing we've been afraid of so far is that when we're in the hospital, there are tens of thousands of people dying of hospital infection in Hungary, we're afraid that we won't even get to the hospital, Minister; let alone the hospital, the basic care. [[14.40]] Through the GP, I can personally see that the GP is ordering on the phone, because he can't do it any other way. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Mr. Secretary. The current cases do not justify staying unattended by tens of thousands of Hungarians, children, families and elderly, sick people. Well, think about it with responsibility, and if you don't listen to us, at least listen to the business. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-04-14-182	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
u2020-04-14-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, You are right that the basic supply cannot stop or stop, and I respectfully inform you of this; first of all. Secondly, yes, our very important objective is that patients with a coronal virus epidemic should not be able to infect other patients, infect doctors and nurses, and that, of course, certain levels of changes have been made to the functioning structure of hospitals, obviously always along the lines of appropriate professional positions and guidelines. Third, the fact that GPs also order on the phone is clearly the reason why they are trying to protect vulnerable age groups whose presence at a GP would pose an additional health risk. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-184	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, As the last speaker, Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. Planzie the government to adjust the domestic prices of electricity and gas to the global price drop? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, he has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond. Do you accept?
u2020-04-14-185	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-04-14-186	Yeah. Then you have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-14-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Due to the economic consequences of the coronal virus epidemic and the increase in the supply of energy that had already begun, energy prices on the world market have fallen to a quarter of the world market price, with a third less to pay for gas than they did up to three months ago. The price of electricity on the world market is almost 80 percent lower than what Hungarians are paying for it at the moment. The Hungarians met with the fall in petrol prices, but through fixed utility charges, your government would not only ease the situation of the Hungarians, but also take away people's money during this period, when most households were in a particularly difficult situation. The government has announced a reduction in the cost of electricity, gas and water, saying that it can keep the price of electricity down. Today, electricity has to be paid almost five times as much for gas at home as for Hungarian consumers to meet the world market price. DK's proposal to advertise a regime for private consumers in distress and small and medium-sized enterprises would not impose an unbearable burden on public finances. The liberals' proposal to dissolve the officially fixed prices for those who remain solvent would require only decency. The price difference will remain with public utility suppliers and ultimately with the Hungarian State as owner, unless there is an intermediate company that comes out of the government's friendships, which will benefit from this benefit. Either way, this is not fair to Hungarian households. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State with all due respect that the government plans to adjust the prices of electricity and gas to world market prices, thereby helping households, companies and municipalities in crisis management. Thank you.
u2020-04-14-188	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-04-14-189	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for honouring the Minister of Finance with his question of how the prices of electricity and gas will be going in the future, but I would like to say to you that, under the Government Statute, this is not a matter for the Minister of Finance, but for the Minister of Innovation and Technology. If you'll allow me, I can give you an answer agreed with the Ministry. The government will use all available means to maximise the potential of a favourable market price environment in order to maintain the results of the reduction in costs. However, it is necessary to point out that the development of domestic final consumption energy prices is only slightly affected by the change in oil prices. It should be pointed out that the so-called system usage charges, which cover the development, operation and maintenance of energy infrastructure in recent years, account for a significant share of end-consumer prices. In terms of product prices, the natural gas price formula has a low weighting for the index price of the oil product, so that the decrease in the price of oil has a small impact on the justified costs of the universal service of natural gas. Under sectoral legislation on natural gas, electricity, universal service and district heating, the establishment of public prices is based on the development of reasonable costs. Regular, detailed review of justified costs and price preparation on this basis falls within the competence of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, and the final consumer prices to be announced are proposed by this office. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-14-190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2020-04-14-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Thank you for having honored me with the answer that another ministry had written for you in advance, but I said in my speech just now that the price of electricity on the world market is almost 80 percent lower than what Hungarians are paying for it at the moment, and gas must be paid by a third less on the world market than it was a few months ago. My question was that you would like to dissolve the officially fixed prices. I understand the additional costs, I understand the costs of utility service providers, but they do not justify that Hungarians are currently paying nearly five times as much for electricity as the world market price would require. Dear Secretary of State, This was my question, and you, in your reply just now, have just proved that the reduction of the rent is quite simply a lie that is being used here for deception among Hungarian consumers. Thank you.
u2020-04-14-192	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2020-04-14-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in 2013-14, the Hungarian government also made a significant reduction in the amount of rent at European level, which exceeded 25 per cent. The consequence of this is that what you are saying now is that, if we compare the price of natural gas, we must say that this is still the cheapest in Hungary, it is also the top fifth place in the purchasing power parities, so your demand and declaration in this respect is not real and it is not true, because Hungary is the cheapest in terms of gas prices. And I think that the Hungarian government has nothing to be ashamed of in the past ten years of the cuts it has made, because the level of the reduction in rent is one of the first in European comparison. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-14-194	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that no faction has asked for a question to be raised, we have reached the end of the debate on the item on the agenda. We will continue to discuss today's agenda with the speeches on the agenda. Please leave the room in accordance with the information provided by the Director General, so as to ensure the protection of everyone's health. First, after the agenda, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm came forward with the title "It was 100 years ago." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-14-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, a hundred years ago, the first female congressman, Margit Slachta, entered Parliament's building. It is quite unacceptable for me, by the way, that on such an important day, the leadership of Parliament did not think that it was necessary to remember the first female parliamentary representative in Hungary's history, and I am replacing that. Margit Slachta was born on September 18, 18, 1884 in Košice, and died on January 6, 1974 in Buffalo, the United States. He spent his life in the social sphere, working for women's rights, the protection of women within the family, and the balance of the social situation of women for many decades. [[14.50]] In 1908, his father's reckless economic activity destroyed him, so the whole family moved to the United States to get along. One family member remained at home, Margaret Slachta, who thought that she really wanted to thrive in Hungary and serve Hungarian society. In the meantime, after he graduated from a teaching school, he taught in different places, but when his family left him, he went to the United States to become a social worker. He started a social school in 1915. In 1918 he had already turned the Christian Woman's paper into a Hungarian Woman, so he had his own paper. In 1919 Sir George Clerk was able to bring in 35,000 women to meet the Entente Envoy, who fought against the Romanian occupation and gave a petition. It was almost natural in 1920 when a national assembly mandate was opened in the first district of the capital city, that his party alliance started him as an individual candidate, which he won on 25 March 1920. This was so hard for the male political community that considered itself superior in 1920 that the resolution on individual mandates was appealed, and that is why Margit Slachta was only allowed to enter the meeting room of the National Assembly on 14 April 1920, that is to say, 100 years ago today. The mandate lasted until 1922. During that time, from the parliamentary records, the male fellow Members, who were on the opposite political side, were mocked, disparaging, and, instead of valid arguments, they classified the quality of a father's sister with female and social sensitivity. But he was not weakened by this, but rather exhilarated, and he represented in the House the fallen, the poor, the socially deprived, and the women. When his mandate ended in 22nd, he naturally returned to the environment from which he came and founded nun orders, founded missionary companies, and was extremely active between the two world wars. When the Jewish laws began to be created, he tried with all his might to prevent it, and when the pogroms began, when the government decided on Jewish deportations in Slovakia, he even reached the pope, and under the pressure of the pope he was able to protect 20,000 Jewish people there. This is what he tried to do in Hungary, but unfortunately in the great Hungarian Christian community he did not achieve any results. At the end of the war, in the new elections in 45, he came from a list of his then party to Parliament, so he was once again a Member of Parliament. When the '47 lured me away, there were blue tag elections, but with a quarter of you, even after such a series of frauds, you were able to get into Parliament again in 47. To describe how he was treated: when it came to nationalization of church schools, György Marosán simply told him to go back to the convent, Opelia. So in this second cycle, it was not the arguments, but the disparaging of his character. But he didn't mind, he fought, and when they voted for nationalization of church schools, the representatives sang the Anthem, and he stayed seated and protested against it. Then he was expelled from Parliament and his mandate was terminated. He left the country for the rest of his life in 49. In honor of this, I have today established the award for the commemoration of the. Slachta Margit. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-14-196	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To speak after the next agenda, Congressman Bence Tordai came forward: About the title. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, While the government's most important task, and even its only task, should be to deal with the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, both health and socio-economic aspects, we see that it has tabled and continuously tabled amendments wrapped in a salad law that have nothing to do with crisis management. In this shameful, self-discussive line, one of the most prominent disenfranchisements of the content, the amendment package against transgenders, which makes it virtually impossible for the Hungarian people to change their gender in official documents. This issue obviously does not affect many people, but it does make the lives of a few hundred or a few thousand completely impossible, while it does not bring any other benefit to anyone else. It is quite obvious that this step goes against not only international law, but also Hungarian case law. The European Court of Human Rights stated in 2001 that the gender change of transgenders is a fundamental human right derived from the universal declaration of human rights, which cannot be denied. In addition, it stated that the State must ensure the exchange of all State-level identifications such as personal numbers and farm numbers. In 2018, the Hungarian Constitutional Court also unanimously ruled that gender and name change is a fundamental human right for transgender people. Compared to this, the Fidesz government has for years prevented by administrative means that our transgender citizens who have decided to live their lives in another sex, and they would like to officially recognise this, can change their sex according to official papers. It is quite obvious that this illegal, law-absorbing practice is now sanctioned by Fidesz's package of measures against trans-humans, which are packed in the salad law. We have been accustomed by the ruling parties to not taking into account the aspects of stakeholders and civil society organisations representing them, social movements, as they do not seem to have heard the joint statement of the 22 Hungarian civil society organisations in which they are initiating the abolition of this paragraph under number 33. There is full consistency between LGBTQ organisations and human rights protection organisations in preventing transgender lives from being impossible and making them an enemy in the eyes of majority society. Moreover, if the legal and moral aspects were not sufficient, then let us do so at the beginning, even before the adoption of the law, it is clear that if this amendment passes through the Fidesz majority House in this form, it will cost the Hungarian state, the Hungarian taxpayers, a great deal of money. 23 people are already suing the Hungarian State because they have denied it in recent years the right to gender change, non-legal recognition, and the European Court of Human Rights will almost certainly continue to judge the consistent case-law so far to all applicants for thousands of euros of compensation, as well as litigation costs of similar magnitude. So it can be said that it is not enough that the looting of every transgender citizen ruins their lives, but it also costs millions to the Hungarian state, the Hungarian taxpayers. It is quite obvious that, as every minority, transgender people, face a lot of difficulties in their everyday life, and there is frequent discrimination against them, and now, if, by the looks of it, people clearly grow or can be identified as men, they have to show in their official documents that their unchangeable birth sex is contrary to their visible sex, then this will cause total confusion in the administration of public offices, banks, the labour market, to make them an even more serious disadvantage, and practically preserve and strengthen the disadvantages that have so far been felt by transhumans in all areas of life. I therefore ask, on behalf of the Dialogue, and we have tabled the amendment to withdraw this anti-rights-absorbing package. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-14-198	Thank you, Congressman. Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi applied for a speech after the next agenda:. What's next? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-14-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent weeks, not only I, but my fellow opposition Members, have very often raised their voices on the destabilizing measures you have taken for the municipalities. [[15.00]] For the first time, they started taking away 40 percent of the tax on motor vehicles per municipality on the basis of the corona virus epidemic, then introducing full free parking, or we could refer it back to an earlier bill, when they decided to take away the public use charge in certain cases. And here's the latest: suspension of the tourist tax. Minister Palkovics has announced in recent days that the tourist tax will be suspended until 31 December 2020. What does that mean? Let's go on a little time trip. The tourist tax is paid by the guests, so those who are able to take a trip, take a vacation, pay the host, and the host pays the municipality by self-requisition. Yes, only this tourist tax comes with so-called additional state aid, which is called support for holiday tasks. This is defined in the Budget Act every year. If we go on this time trip now and travel back to 2011, this meant 1.5 forints for every tourist tax collected. Then, as time went by, we arrived at 2016, when at the 2017 budget you changed this extra tourist tax to 1 HUF. What are the municipalities using it for? And other than those tourist and tourist destinations that make their settlements even more attractive. But not only for this, but also for the maintenance of public space caused by an increase in population relative to an increased number of permanent populations. This excess payment is also questionable about what will happen to it, what will happen, as it will always be paid on the basis of the facts of the previous year, i.e. in 2020 on the basis of the facts of 2018. Yes, but if the collection of the tourist tax is suspended not only for the time of the emergency but for the whole year in 2020, what figures will be used to determine in 2022 if this additional State aid is found to be involved? Local governments are in a very, very difficult situation during the coronal virus epidemic. Let's just check out some settlements. At Balatonfüred with 415 million, in Siófok with 330 million, in Keszthely with 75 million, but not only at Lake Balaton, but also to two very important resorts: Hajduszoboszló with 520 million, and in Eger with 254 million HUF by 2020. Yes, we all know that this summer tourist season probably wouldn't have received so much tourist tax, but by suspending you until 31 December 2020, you're cutting off a lot of development. And yes, the other question that the profession has already raised is that since the guests pay them, guests who will not be sorry to pay hundreds of thousands of forints for a three-four-day rest will not be cut to the ground by the 1500 or 1200 forints that would have been the tourist tax. So when you say that this measure will lead to a boost in the tourism sector, there is a big question mark in it again that the revenue of the municipalities is being carved down again, and there are no rational reasons for that. They will be incorporated into the accommodation fee, because you can see that, let's say, the VAT on the pork or chicken has been reduced, and it has crawled nicely into it, and that in principle price reduction has appeared at this price. It will also appear here in the service fee. So we see: car tax, tourist tax. What's next? Exorcism tax? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-04-14-200	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech after the next agenda:. How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-201	Mr President, Dear House, This is a dangerous turn of events, and I really need to confirm that what the Government of Hungary is doing is particularly dangerous, it plays, it draws a quilt for the replacement of the Hungarian wage losses. We can see that in the first days, when we presented the concept of the Hungarian employment protection fund in good faith, suggesting that at least 80% of every wage lost in Hungary should be taken out, we have given international examples of how other countries should solve the same. With regard to Austria, we have drawn attention to an 80-90-percent replacement that employers and the state are taking together. So no one in Hungary wanted to make it look like there's milk and honey everywhere in Canaan, where the state takes over everything, because that's not true. But we also see that 15 European countries have been able to come up with a much more effective solution than Hungarians, and we also see that the Government of Hungary, with its present, multiplely mutilated solution, may not even be able to call it off from complete social groups and classes. By calculating a strong average, we can see that, in the case of companies with income losses of between 10 and 50 percent, the Government of Hungary is willing to make up for 70 percent of the salaries for just three months, under such restrictive conditions that, in fact, those groups of hosts who have served perfectly. Total social groups, thousands and tens of thousands of people, are falling out of the micro and small business layer, and we also see that, while Hungary's Government is talking about 19 to 20 percent of GDP, we are dealing with re-brandings and re-namings here, and if we look at how much resources the government actually involves in this system, then we see that we find 2 to 3 percent of GDP at the point where we should intervene in the interests of Hungarian workers. And if we look at the monthly amount of what they are talking about, we can see that, even for this short period of three months, you are willing to allocate up to HUF 75,000 per month, once again, under reduced conditions, the government, which is quite simply ridiculous for the Czech Republic to have the same figure, with 60-80 percent replacement, above HUF 500 000. So the gap is amazing, if not among the countries of the narrow region, but also there, because we could also bring data for the Czech Republic and Romania that are much more favourable than Hungarians. But it is unnecessary to go into a number war, because if every Hungarian citizen had the income to feed on his family's table, then perhaps this debate wouldn't have started between us, but there would be some pretty amazing situations. By staying out of this package of complete professions, and only companies that can maintain their activities in some way, but not those who are already completely indestructible, we have a completely grotesque image: a chemical neoliberal policy on the part of the Orbán government, which seeks to favour the upper middle class, the rich and the lucky, and expects these citations to flow down to all social classes. Well, that's where we report that this model hasn't been successful anywhere in the world, and it's not going to be successful at the moment, and it's not going to be successful in the coming months. At the same time, we see that there are hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their livelihoods and jobs, and that this government has no message in their direction. We have heard here today that, of course, they can take on a free-use preferential loan, which they would give to someone else, but they can also spend it on a daily living, and then, if it runs out, they should pay back at the same time and care for their families without income, as I and the Government of Hungary can't tell you how long the crisis vortex will last. Thirdly, we also see that certain groups that have benefited from government benefits may continue to be rampant, that no one has set a barrier to the fact that different executive teams are using 33 percent or 50 percent bans in respect of the smallest pensions, the smallest incomes, and that people who now have lost their income, if any, will be forced to lose them, to face the fact that, as a result of these various enforcement practices, their income for basic livelihoods disappears every month. That is why I urge the establishment of a Hungarian employment protection fund, which would guarantee 80 percent of their previous wages for those who still have their jobs and for those who have lost it in the last few weeks, because all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-04-14-202	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Ádám Steinmetz spoke after the next agenda with the title of the request by Mayors of Somogyi. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is a part of Somogya that has been avoided by valuable investment in job creation for a decade or so. [[15.10]] There are no universities, and there are no well-paying jobs, and unfortunately, thanks to this, the young people who want to learn, who might want to earn a little more money, leave Marcali's area by thousands and thousands. And in the beautiful small villages of Somogy, there is an increasing number of older, single people, usually from small pensions, in need of help, and those poor people who are already enjoying a good lunch. Unfortunately, thanks to the Fidesz government, this pleasure is usually only given to them on village days, during the Daridos, or usually before the elections. So in this region of the country, more and more people are in need of help, and who can be expected of help, honourable Members: obviously primarily from the local government and personally from the mayors. From those mayors whose decision-making competence is constantly, year after year, systematically reduced and limited by the system, while their tasks are not reduced. They drown in reporting, drown in administration, and they have to take care of these people now, while the necessary resources are not available. Don't forget that these settlements are farming on a very tight budget, and now even the government has taken away the car tax, which was an income of its own. You can hear that they are planning to reduce or take away the local business tax, and in the Balaton area, in the Balaton coastal settlements, it is expected that this year's tourist season will not, and the revenues from it will not, develop as they have been used to in recent years and decades. So we should now buy masks from a declining budget, buy protective equipment or, where appropriate, food for mayors for those in need. And speaking of masks, today's news: millions of masks have arrived in the country, but the government is still refusing to make sure that every person has access to it, so that they can use it in public areas. In Somogy County, especially in small villages, where there's not even a pharmacy, there's no shop, there's simply no access to them, or where they can be, and there's an unrealisticly high price. So I'm gonna ask you, when are there gonna be masks for the population, when will the government come up with this for them, and even the source for it? I spoke to several mayors in the Somogy region, and, ladies and gentlemen, they are not asking for more money, they are not asking for the car tax to remain. You know what they want? They're asking for flexibility. This year's budget calls for flexible use of the cultural normative material. This is the amount which, by the way, is 1250 forints per resident, so I say again: 1250 forints, not a big sum, but it is a great help if this amount is not to be used for the renovation of the library or for the performance of public education. After all, the renovation of the library, if already available, can be delayed for another half a year, or the preservation of the village days and Daridos planned for the summer is unlikely to be realized in view of the coronal virus epidemic. So these amounts will typically not be used by the municipalities, which is why the mayors ask for flexibility so that they can now use this amount for the control of the coronal virus, for the purchase of masks, for disinfectants or, where appropriate, for food. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very well-intentioned, very constructive proposal, in which the government has its own room of manoeuvre, not European Union money, so they can change this with a government regulation next week, as they will touch and change the budget. That's why I'm recommending you to your attention, which is why I have a good heart to support. I will do everything in my power to get the mayors of Somogy to the government, to get to the decision makers. Now there is only one question, honourable Members: can you support this? Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-14-204	Thank you, Congressman. Mr László Varga asked to speak after the next agenda: on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The institution of the post-meeting speech gives us the opportunity to evaluate a few sittings. When I was preparing for this meeting, I was thinking basically on two major issues: what answers could be to the government, what solutions it offers to the population of the country and to the people concerned. The first was the issue of municipalities. I called to the attention of Minister Péter Szijjártó that the municipalities are not a target group, not an area from which resources can be drawn during this period. This is because there is a crisis affecting local governments, which organise people's everyday lives and maintain public services. I mean, they're losing a lot of income these days, they're having very serious budget problems, and compared to that, it's incomprehensible why they keep taking me away from them. Besides, there are also municipalities on the front line of defence, they have enormous costs to ensure the basic conditions. In short, in the context of the fight against the epidemic, its social and economic effects, the municipalities are clearly on the front line, but the government has taken away the remaining part of the car tax from them, and has withdrawn or given no opportunity to collect them in respect of tourist tax and parking charges without compensation. Thus, the situation of the Hungarian municipalities in these weeks is impossible by the government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, which gives the majority of the National Assembly. This, I think, will cause very serious problems by the summer. In order to talk home a little, I also see in Miskolc that a loss of billions is expected both for the municipality and for the corporate background and for the holding company, which now places very, very difficult tasks on the municipality and the management of companies. It can therefore be concluded that not only the epidemic, the struggle with its social and economic effects, is now the task of the municipalities, but they are facing additional heavy burdens in relation to the steps of the government. I did not get an answer to the question of whether or not consolidation would be expected. I think it's a shocking and deplorable situation. So in the first big case, for which I considered this meeting to be important today, I did not receive any response from one of the government ministers responsible. The other issue, which I have not raised before the Parliament for the first time, is the future of the public and cultural sector in Hungary. It is known that several of their trade unions, including the KKDSZ, also held a demonstration on the day of Hungarian culture on 22 January. They drew attention to unworthy working conditions, in fact to their unworthy pay situation, which has been waiting for ten years to be settled, because in fact they pushed their pay sign only by raising the minimum wage, thereby causing serious wage tension. Therefore, it is no coincidence that the most important and powerful element of their five-point petition is to have a wage arrangement in this sector, and they called for an immediate wage increase, so they expected a wage negotiation from the government already in mid-January. The government was expected to settle the financial and other conditions of the entire public collection and public education system by employees and representatives of the sector. Compared to this, it is shocking that this petition, the voice of many tens of thousands of people, has not been heard by the government, and has even been suggested by the news that this sector would be deprived of its status as a civil servant. This is also a withdrawal of all benefits in this regard, and I could obviously start with the Jubilee Prizes and list the opportunities that this provides. So in the situation in which a significant part of their maintainers, the local authorities, the cultural sphere and the public sector are now getting another slap from the government when they need real and meaningful help. They only had a few days to comment on this draft on the holiday weekend. I think the right thing to do is to withdraw this and really support the cultural and public sector. Thank you, Mr. President. [[15.20]]
u2020-04-14-206	Thank you, Congressman. Member Ander Balázs applied for a final statement after the last agenda: Where is the limit of insolence? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-14-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, where is the limit of insolence to ask on behalf of my former colleagues? Before I became a Member, I taught, and before I started teaching, I worked as a museum worker, Barcson worked at the Drava Museum. With regard to the current draft law, which would remove the status of civil servants from public collection and public education workers, it is important to ask the government authorities where the limit of insolence is. So, to submit a bill on Thursday, Thursday at 7:45 p.m. to the trade unions, with the invitation to proceed with the social consultation of this outrage, and to send their comments by Tuesday morning at 8:30 p.m., I think it is more than unworthy. This is not what the nearly 20,000 employees who are active in this area deserve, these otherwise highly qualified intellectuals, who, say, as librarians, cannot afford to buy a new book, as an archivist or as a museologist, are luxurious to buy a new shoe, as 80 percent of those working in the sector suffer from the guaranteed minimum wage. And that would be added by the government to the fact that the status of civil servant, which gives them some sort of small security of existence, some kind of respect, at least theoretically, in fact without agreement, a pen stroke, based on false reasons, XXI. They'd be taken away for centuries. That's no way to behave! At least in the middle of Europe, a government that calls itself democratic, civil and national could not afford to behave in this way, so shamefully to these people. They took the neoliberal advice of Coke, axiom, to say that there is no need to ask frogs if they drain the swamp, because this process, called conciliation, is obviously far from having a real, meaningful discussion on this whole issue. Without a library, there really is no equal opportunities, there really is no national memory without museums, and without the archives, the people working in the archives, there really is no credible national past. And if this is forgotten by a government claiming to be national, if it is thus overwhelming the protests of these people, then the question must be asked, beyond the limit of insolence, also that it is indeed a national government. There are other dangers to this brazen bill. It can result in the country being even more torn apart, because it is about shaking off a kind of state responsibility. The municipalities would put it all on the back of their hands, marketing the public works, and then, if that municipality has the power to manage the whole thing, then there will be public education, and if there is no resources, there is no mood, then there will also be a way to say good-bye. What will this lead to in Hungary's multiplely disadvantaged peripheral regions, where these cultural workers may be the last guardians of civil mentality? I don't think it's going to do any good, which is why we're demanding very strongly of the government that you drop this plan and put your hands off the status of civil servant. There is a very strange and very brazen Parraghi approach, he said in relation to the workers in vocational training, and when they were deprived of the status of civil servant, that the status of civil servant results in a kind of comfort, these people can sit back and feel that they do not need to work with maximum force. These workers went to work in museums, archives, cultural houses, libraries, as a matter of fact, as an outrage, an outrage, and to a government calling itself civil, it is completely unworthy. We're outraged! We reject all this shame. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-14-208	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of our agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session will take place on 20 April 2020. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
