u2020-06-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 31st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, Bence Tordai applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue. I give you the floor.
u2020-06-08-1	Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, We remembered the victims of racism in several places and on several occasions throughout the world and here in Hungary, both yesterday and today. This is not only because of US events, but also because of the reality in Hungary, because almost 12 years ago, the crime of Roma killings has begun, but there are not only fatal victims of racism, the victims of everyday racism are those who do not receive adequate education because of their origin, have no good job opportunities, have no access to justice or even social security. And it is no coincidence that the situation in this area has been getting worse over the last ten years, because Fidesz has raised to the rank of state policy the hatred policy that has been going on a long time ago, which is being used against increasingly closer and more tangible targets. At first, when they were fighting only the IMF and multinational companies, it may not have hurt so many. Then the attacks were directed at independent media, and they continue to continue to this day. Remember yesterday's post of Péter Hoppál, where he threatened to close the Népszava for an unfavorable cartoon, and exemplared the fate of Népszabadság, which you also shut down because of your unpleasant fact-finding writings [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] Not personally, but through your oligarch, your Austrian convicted criminal friend. And then this enemy training shifted to refugees, and now the Roma society in Hungary is the target group. We see the campaign that is being conducted, and we also see that Fidesz's policy is increasingly in line with the policy of our proud racist Mi Hungary, who is taking on neo-Nazi politics, and now there are even conflicts on a personal level. Yesterday's news is that the President of Hungary of Szeged has crossed over to Fidelitas, and the people there have welcomed him, explaining that the policies of the two organizations are very close to each other; unfortunately, we see that too. This hate-inspiring and increasingly dangerous policy is based on social tensions, the causes of which are increasing uncertainty, vulnerability, lack of means, lack of prospects, the impression of which is the hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, perhaps millions, emigrating over the last ten years, and the other impression of the crowds of people who struggled with hopelessness and hopelessness, some of whom have become addictive to your hate policy. These emotions, which a responsible government should not stimulate, but remedy, seem to fit in very well with your goals, which is mostly to distract attention from the concentration of power, theft and the main policies of Fidesz. It is also clear in the budget that we are starting to discuss this week: instead of leading the Hungarian society to a happy country, where everyone has the opportunity of security and a better life, or at least the hope of achieving it, you will continue the governance around theft, and this will be complemented by the items of political revenge in the budget. We see that the largest net contributor to the budget is Budapest, the citizens of Budapest, who have less funding than they have to put into the state register. But we also see that there are other losers that show your irresponsibleness, such as the climate issue, which is also a net contributor, because they only spend 30-some billion dollars on climate protection, on measures related to it, while it comes from quota trading, excise duty and the like. The Dialogue, as a Green Left Party, says that a budget for security and hope should be established, that basic income should be introduced and that there should be an investment in the future, in future-proof jobs, in well-paid, well-trained workers, in social security and in a green climate that puts our country on a fully sustainable path, whether it be environmental, economic and social sustainability. So we should go in this direction, but we see that you have no openness to good words and valuable, forward-looking thoughts. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-2	In response, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2020-06-08-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as the first part of your speech is concerned, I would like to make it clear that the government rejects all forms of extremism, which is why the criminal code has been tightened in recent years, and that is why paramilitary guards cannot march on the Hungarian streets, paramilitary guards [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] , which marched before 2010. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Roma killings also occurred during left-wing governments. As far as the Roma are concerned, I think that many of us can be proud of the fact that unemployment between the Roma has been halved during this governance, not by us, but by Eurostat, that the proportion of people exposed to poverty has fallen by 1.3 million during the current governance. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) This is not least because unemployment has been reduced from 12 to 4 percent, and that is the case even if you want to cover it up by yelling. I can see that you have made the same record that left-wing politicians have been playing for almost ten years. But the thing is, this record is over. It's over. Among other things, that's why it expired. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] , because they joined forces with the Jobbik on which the same adjectives were placed (Tordai Bence intervenes.) For years. They protested against them, saying that there was no home with Nazis (Bence Tordai interrupts.) They ran abroad and demanded separation. After that, they joined together and didn't want to split up. [[13.10]] What you have shown on the left is one of the greatest hypocrisys since the change of regime. As far as economic aspects are concerned, I would like... [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Honourable Member, I have allowed you to say what you would like to say, even when I disagreed with him. I'm asking you to give your voters the honor of giving me the same. [[Bence of Turdai nodds.]] Thank you very much. As far as next year's budget is concerned, you know very well that everything must be subject to the protection of jobs. This is why, in addition to the epidemiological fund, the economic protection fund had to be set up, and this entails more transfers than usual, and this will also come back from next year's budget. We see very well that we have a debate on an important issue, namely that the municipalities must play their part in these efforts. We think so. We also see that you do not think that they are protesting loudly. And when you're talking about municipal resources, among other things, I suggest you take a look at next year's budget numbers and compare them to what they are. You will see that 16 percent more targeted support is included in next year's draft. You can't say "bleeding" because it's actually a bonus. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And anyone who wants to know what the left is capable of in times of crisis should not only be looking at examples before 2010, it is just so telling what they are saying, what they are doing or what they are not doing. Gergely Christmas, your boss, for example, remained in debt to act, not just on economic matters. It's not just that he didn't act, it's that he didn't realize he was supposed to act. For example, a few days ago, he said that he did not think that anything should have been done differently, because at the level of preparation, they were so prepared. Really, Your Honour? Really? They were so prepared that there were times when there was no medical presence in the nursing home on Pesti Road. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Let us not talk about the fact that, in the meantime, the renovation of the Chain Bridge has been in complete uncertainty due to indecision, while the government is providing funds for it. The previous city leadership, the previous metropolitan administration, left 24 billion behind in the cash register, with a goal of 24 billion, and the government of 6 billion. We really hope it's not that this amount has already been squandered after a few months. We see the same on your part everywhere, indecisiveness and procrastination, and, as a frame of all that, point to something else. If there was a World Championship in charge, Gergely Christmas would have a good chance of starting. We've seen this before. Now they're running the same Demszky program again, demanding from everyone, pointing at everyone, mostly the government, but there's no action, there's no action. We recommend that it be so, because otherwise they will not be the opposition of the government, but the opposition of the people of Budapest and all Hungarian people. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-4	It is now time for the group leader of the LMP, Mr Lóránt Keresztes.
u2020-06-08-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is no surprise that I too will be talking about next year's budget, the most important parliamentary topic this week will be the debate on the budget. The government submitted a draft budget for next year, the main statement of which is the main title of which, as State Secretary Csaba Dömötör pointed out, 2021 is the budget for economic protection. Here, we have heard a great deal about the protection of jobs, the creation of jobs, and the government also points out that there is no need for austerity, but that there is a need for job protection. If we look at the numbers, so if we forget about the communication that is related to the budget, we forget about the revelations in the justification and look at the numbers or look behind the numbers, then we can see that this is not what is happening. So once again, the government is not doing what you're talking about. Our conviction is that if we look at the numbers, so the reality behind the budget numbers, this is the budget for living the future, this is the budget of revenge and this is the budget of uncertainty. It is quite clear that not only our country, but all countries, whether in the European Union or globally, must face the situation that we are now facing a very extraordinary and very deep economic crisis, and that we must also integrate the effects of this into the process of thinking along which reconstruction and the re-launching of the economy must be planned. This requires a huge and very important fundamental shift in economic policy, and we see no trace of this in the budget presented by the government. It was first presented in a situation where the economic crisis is still unfolding, it is quite clear that we cannot plan precisely for even months, so fundamental changes must be made in the budget, i.e. basically the main figures will also change, that is quite certain. Here, too, Mr Dömötör, State Secretary, referred to in his recent response to the focus on the protection of the economy and the creation of jobs at the level of communication. I would just like to set an example of this, which would also help to underline that you did not actually put rationality and not the numbers on the table when the budget was planned. We have talked a lot about the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, but it was an amazing experience or development here in the last week's debate, that Mr Banai, the Secretary of State, who has a huge role in the preparation and compilation of the budget, could not give any expectations, no metrics, no return guarantees related to the Giga project. So this year, 80 billion will be spent on the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, this huge item, this huge investment has already been hidden in the budget for next year, the exact number is no longer known, we only know that they will spend at least 100 billion. So if we look at it in a one-year perspective and say that over this one year or one-and-a-half years, 180 billion will be spent on the Budapest-Belgrád project, then, according to your calculations, this means that 150,000 new jobs will be sacrificed in order to achieve this project, while no indicators, expectations, return guarantees, or guarantees of exploitation are known, as you have encrypted this project for ten years. If we look at the budget, it goes further on the path that is the essence of Fidesz's economic policy, so it increases vulnerability, basically, along the lines of great authority interests, by trying to develop some kind of economic development by picking off crumbs. They continue to pursue an economic policy based on assembly plants, not on high added value, crisis-resistant jobs. Despite the fact that during the last two crises, we can see that jobs of this kind are lost for the first time when economic uncertainty, an economic crisis, reaches our country. They make it impossible to invest, the local economy, the structure of a strong local economy, with the very hard restrictions that affect local governments, but which directly harm Hungarian people. This is also a crisis-resistant economy against the construction of a self-sufficient patriot economy. They also do not face the huge problem of the collapse of infrastructure and public service systems and, contrary to that, a rail-destructive policy. If Minister of State Csaba Dömötör mentioned the Demszky era, then I think that the name of Gordon Bajnai and Minister Kóka is certainly noteworthy, as an example that you carry out with great zeal when drawing up your budget and enforcing your economic policy. [[13.20]] We think, on the other hand, that we need to build an economy that is much more crisis-resistant, more self-sufficient, so that it seeks to meet basic needs in local or regional cooperation. We need jobs that can cope with such an extraordinary situation. We need to build a strong economy, a strong local economy, a real patriot, green economic policy. There are basically the options for this, there are the figures, there are the budget lines, which could be amended to guide the draft budget for next year in such a direction. Therefore, the LMP faction in this spirit will aim at creating a new patriot, green economy with its amendment proposals, which will be presented in the debate. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-6	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2020-06-08-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I think that when we are talking about the budget for 2021, which, by the way, only starts its general debate on Wednesday, it is necessary to take a different approach than when criticising a budget in a normal economic and social situation. In my opinion, the reason why even the left should take a different approach is because the situation is completely different in Hungary, the situation in Europe and the situation in the world is different. The Hungarian budget of 2021 has two main items. One of the main items is the protection of the economy, the protection of jobs, the protection of people's jobs, and the creation of new jobs for those who have lost their jobs, either by the state or by businesses. There is a clear need to mobilise resources for this and to raise resources in the budget. A good government can meet this challenge. In the budget, it can raise resources to protect the economy by not taking away from families, by not cutting back on the budget, by not reducing incomes, by not reducing pensions, by not sending people away. So either you plan the budget to provide additional resources, or the structure and flexibility of the budget will allow this priority objective to be met, and I am talking about only one goal for now, the protection of the economy and the protection of people's jobs. That's the budget. This budget is difficult for the economy in 2020, you might say, a crisis situation, which is expected to cause growth to decline in 2020 rather than economic growth, and will completely restore it, and in 2021 these economic defence resources will allow the Hungarian economy to return to growth. This growth path is planned to mean that GDP growth will again reach 5 percent, which is expected to be one of the highest in Europe. But the most important thing is that it will generate additional revenue, that it will balance the budget, and that it will ensure the coverage of the government's expenditure, as set out in the Act of Parliament. At the same time, the number of jobs will start to rise again. The number of jobs will not decrease, but will increase, so that the number of unemployed people will stop growing, which will already happen this year, and next year, in 2021, the budget and subsidies will bring the country back to an economic path in which the number of jobs is equal to or more than the number of jobs in the previous year, and the growth of the economy, as I said, will be once again outstanding in Europe. In addition, the other main objective of the budget is to maintain the epidemiological preparedness. It is necessary to maintain the epidemiological alert and to reserve resources for this. This will be done by the 2021 budget. But this will also mean that resources must be raised for this too, so that the objectives set out above can be met. Therefore, the budget will contain HUF 2115 billion for health purposes, which is nearly HUF 918 billion higher than in the previous budget, such as the 2010 budget. But if we look at the content of the budget globally, we can see that, compared to 2010, when the Fidesz-KDNP government is operating, there are significant increases, increases in budget expenditure, in almost all sectors. I now highlight one of these, the educational activity, because this is what I have time for, which will be 54 percent higher in 2021 than it was in 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-8	Now it's time for DK's representative, Ágnes Vadai.
u2020-06-08-9	Dear House, It has now become clear that the Hungarians will be the worst in Europe again, because only here there is no meaningful crisis management. I would very much like to ask you not to list the measures in your response, because all you have done is not for the Hungarians, but for yourself and for family members and friends like István Tiborcz, Lőrinc Mészáros or István Garancsi. While governments in other countries pay a large proportion of wages instead of companies without bureaucratic applications and applications, saving hundreds of thousands of jobs, we already have over 400 thousand unemployed and slave laws. In Austria, there will be an additional €1 billion for local authorities; and you will be given revenge, just because you have lost the autumn municipal elections, destroying all opposition authorities and a number of pro-governments. In Germany, representatives of German culture receive EUR 50 billion of assistance, and they themselves had access to a Tank Trap Regulation. You save money on Hungarian people, families, employees, companies, and spend money on other cases with two hands. But I don't want to be unfair, let me recall a few examples of recent years when they weren't small-handed or even willing to give out taxpayers' money without performance. You gave Lőrinc Mészáros 4 billion to his soccer team in Croatia, the Osijek, 8.5 billion to the team of Miercurea Ciuc, 6.2 billion to the Sepsi OSK Football Academy, 3.5 billion to a Slovenian, 5 billion to a Slovak, 8.5 billion to a Serbian football team. It's 35.7 billion forints in lower voice. In Mexico, in 1986, we got six goals, two goals, two billion! to renovate two Mexican temples. But he made 136.5 billion forints for Vietnam projects, 7 billion forints for a cultural house in Hanoi, 320 million forints for a Congolese ophthalmic clinic, and 165 million forints for the renovation of a Belarusian church last week. This year and next year, you will give 672 million forints to raise the salary of priests across the border so that I can mention just a few examples. Together, they amount to HUF 182 billion. Well, let's see who didn't get it. As of 1 July, pharmacists, physiotherapists, home care providers, nursing staff of nursing homes and the social sphere will not receive a gross payment supplement of HUF 500,000. And no, we are attacking Miklós Kásler not because he is a Hungarian and a believer, but we are attacking him because he is heartless, lying, and his actions and sentences are quite simply stupid. Despite the decision of home caregivers and the Constitutional Court, there was no support for disabled pensioners. No support for the families. The Democratic Coalition has proposed on numerous occasions to raise the family allowance, the family allowance that was last raised during the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[13.30]] And there was no support for pensioners, who, along with everyone in the shops, are facing the fact that basic foods are now 50 percent more expensive than in February. It costs 500-600 forints a kilo, not very high quality apples, more expensive than bananas. Of course, I understand that since you don't really go to the shops and people, and obviously from the Carmelite monastery, the expensive restaurants, the palaces and the Louis Vuitton backpacks, you don't see that, but you should be faced with this price increase. And let me add: the problem is not that Hungary is helping. We think it is normal for a European developed solidarity state to help others. It is not acceptable that you are not helping those who have added these funds to the Hungarian budget. You are always talking about Christianity, the Hungarians and the nation. But it's just a glaze, it's clear that it's used to pour down the crime sanctioned by the brave 133. And you don't have so much honor as to help me get back to the public when there's trouble, not even from your own, but from what was stolen. Last week, I suggested to you that you practice your apology. Now I suggest you take the Ten Commandments more seriously. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties. Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: Thank you! Excellent.]]
u2020-06-08-10	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-06-08-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. He mentioned a number of topics. I don't know how the Tank Trap comes in here, but he brought up a few other topics. It's a matter of home care. Where was this zeal when we were supposed to vote for a home-care raise here in the House? Then where were you, honourable Member? They ran around with loudspeakers, whistles, everything, they even tried to stop the vote, but they didn't vote for it. As far as the social sector is concerned, there is an average increase of 36 per cent in support of social institutions in 2020, with an average increase in social workers' wages of 60 per cent between 13 and 18 and a wage increase in 2020. As far as pensioners are concerned, you've taken a month's pension, and this government is giving it back, and we didn't even talk about the extra benefits here. As far as jobs and wage subsidies are concerned, the measures taken so far have fulfilled their expectations. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] If you have time and strength to listen between two yellings, then I would be happy to say that the wage support for job protection is 145 thousand, the wage support for research and development is 13 thousand, the wage support for job creation is 70 thousand, and the investment aid is 143 thousand. That's hundreds of thousands in scale. That's what you're saying, nothing, which I'm not surprised about, given that you had 12 percent unemployment at your time, and now you're under 4 percent. You've taken a few budget lines out of the last few years. Then let me also compare how much we are spending now and how much we are going to spend in some areas compared to your governance. 77 percent more for health; 54 percent more for education; 139 percent more for social and welfare institutional services; and one more for cultural activities 174 percent more. So, in that sense, we can't accept a lecture from you again. As far as the economic aspects of the EU are concerned, there is another phenomenon that I would like to address here, namely that you are constantly campaigning to allow the government to decide on less EU money, which in practice means that the country would also have less money. And that's why you're campaigning. We know that in the debate on every long-term seven-year budget, some countries want to take money from the Eastern European countries, and what they are doing now they are on their side, which is quite scandalous! And that is the case even if, in this withdrawal effort, they refer to all kinds of abstract rule of law criteria. What we have seen very well is that the facts did not matter at all in such discussions on the rule of law. The whole thing was used as part of such an ideological bot policy or in order to gain economic advantage. And the problem is that if the national governments do not decide on the resources, there is nothing, but there is no guarantee that Hungary will receive these funds. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Look here, honourable Member, if there is time between two yellings that, in the case of resources that can be requested directly from Brussels, what is flowing back to the large EU Member States, and you want to strengthen this process. If, in fact, they refer to the need for local authorities to decide on EU funds, it does not prove anything but that they want to take party policy into the EU's resources. I would like to respond briefly to one more thing, Madam honourable Member. As expected, you are two feet ahead of the government's consultation initiative. They say, if I recall correctly, that it is pointless, outrageous, and deceitful. Now tell me what's false. Ask the Hungarians what protection measures are being supported against the epidemic? Ask them what they think about economic protection measures? Or the stealth European big loans that are already on the agenda? Why is it considered a problem if the government asks the Hungarians between elections? You've taken the initiative, but it's just that you've drowned in complete indifference, so don't blame us. I know that as a Pavlovi reflex, you deny everything that comes from the government, but we are still talking about issues in which it is worth taking a stand. One thing is certain that if you do not, the Hungarians will definitely do so. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]]
u2020-06-08-12	Next up is the head of the MSZP faction. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2020-06-08-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, I said for a reason that reconstruction is needed, the reconstruction of Hungary and, in particular, the reconstruction of Hungarian health care. In recent times, day after day, you are pushing propaganda for billions, but, fellow Members, the truth always comes out. And the truth is, you've made three fatal mistakes in the case of an epidemic. One such mistake is that older people were sent back to nursing homes without testing from hospitals that became focal points. Another such fatal mistake is that basic and specialised care in healthcare has almost completely ceased. The third such fatal mistake was that during the drastic evacuation of hospital beds, thousands of people's lives were threatened and many died. They could face the story of a 33 - year - old mother of two who did not receive medical care in time and died. Day after day, those stories come, you can hear, see what happened to patients who got out of hospitals overnight, how many lives were in danger, and how many died. A poll shows that one in three Hungarian people complained that they had not received the right medical care. And what we can see now is that hundreds of thousands of people are lining up in front of the Hungarian hospitals, either in the rain or in the sun or in the panic, to get access to health care. Dear fellow Members, These aren't funny stories, are they? These are fatal mistakes that they refuse to take responsibility for. The Minister for Health talks that he is being attacked because he is a believer and a Hungarian. Let's get this straight, fellow Members. We're not attacking anyone personally, Mr. Kasler, especially because of his religious beliefs. We protect the lives, health and safety of Hungarian people. But, fellow Members, that is why we say that the current health management system has failed and that the Minister for Health is inadequate. And believe me, that's not gonna change the fact that right now they're gonna trust the police with health care. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said, we need to rebuild Hungarian health care, create a separate Ministry of Health, with a responsible and competent leader. A new governance model should be developed and operated. A marked wage increase is needed for healthcare workers, for doctors and nurses, in order to eliminate the shortage of professionals and to fully reorganize the provision of general medical care. And one more thing, fellow Members. It is quite astonishing and outrageous that social workers are not given the one-time allowance of HUF 500,000 that healthcare workers receive. They stood on the front, too, often without protective equipment, without testing; they also deserve this benefit. [[13.40]] Let's see who we're talking about. Workers who work in nursing homes, who work in child care, work in family and child welfare services, centres, people with disabilities, care for the elderly during the day, or care for the homeless. It is also totally unacceptable for pharmacists and physiotherapists to be left out of this allowance and for a given reason that does not cover reality. I'm sorry, a large proportion of nursing homes are under state reserve, and it has come to my attention that doctors and nurses will receive such benefits in a non-state healthcare facility. So that's not true. Then there's only one reason why you're saying there's no money for this. Well, let's see what the money's for. There's money for propaganda, there's money for fireworks, there's money to save the failed Tennis Alliance, there's money to buy power plants. Ladies and gentlemen, This should all be given to those working in the healthcare and social sectors, as they have been the ones who have fought the past few months. They're entitled to this benefit, not to the secretary of state with a 35 percent increase in their salary in an epidemic situation. They must give this money for our future together, for Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-14	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-06-08-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, As has already been said here today, the budget will be the subject of Parliament's debate this week. It's very talkative how much people spend on health care. You're done with that. Let me start with that. Compared to the budget you have presented, the budget we have just presented and to discuss this week will spend HUF 918 billion more on health purposes. 918 billion forints more! If you look at the increase from this year to next year, you will see that the surplus of HUF 156 billion that we will provide in health care as a bonus, as an additional cover for next year's budget compared to this year. This means that if you compare your health budget with your health budget, you will see a 77 percent increase, honourable Member. So if you're telling me that the budget is going to tell you who appreciates health care, well, these budget numbers are pretty talkative. But it is also talkative, when you did not give a surplus, but removed more than HUF 600 billion from Hungarian health care, on the one hand, and on the other hand, you tried to save on wages, you wanted to derail health care, and you wanted to privatise Hungarian health care, as you have done in one or two cases, which has resulted in scandalous consequences. They were also saving up for fewer employees. Doctors and nurses were laid off, 6,000 in total. They also wanted to save money on fewer hospital beds, and they took out 16,000. They also wanted to save money for nurses, workers, doctors to bring home less money. A month's wages were also taken from them, honourable Member. On the other hand, in this four-year cycle, we are raising the wages of the workers by 72 percent. You have mentioned, honourable Member, that in the last few days you have dealt with a number of individual cases. This weekend, too, the Hungarian Socialist Party posted a video on its side, where Congressman Korózs talks to a lady who calls herself a health worker, who says in the first minute that he is a full-time paramedic and has been working as a paramedic for 43 years. That's a name that doesn't work in the ambulance service, and he hasn't worked in the past years. At the first minute of this video, you claim to be a paramedic for 43 years and a full-time paramedic. A full-time rescue officer by that name is not in Hungary, nor has he been in the past. But if we look at the fact that the person you are setting up as a credible source is at all listed in the active or passive register of the Hungarian Health Care Professionals' Chamber: there is no such person under that name. So it's not in the register either. Honourable Congressman, Our job as politicians is to ensure, on the one hand, the safe functioning of health and other systems. But it is also important that we do not create unfounded alarms in humans. You obviously have political goals. They want to seize power at all costs, so they can even join forces with the goodies you've said to be Nazis. But don't make it false. Don't create alarms in patients based on untruths. This is clearly the case, because what your fellow politician is saying in this video is not a real, honourable leader of the group. Don't scare the sick with false news. Don't tell someone that you're a paramedic, that you're supposed to be on the medical professional list if that's not the case. This discredits the entire video and discredits your policy and discredits what you have said here in the Parliament on health care. When you were supposed to help defend yourself with your own votes in Parliament so that emergency legislation could be adopted as soon as possible and the government could act within hours, you did not help. And if you compare the number of people who died of coronal virus disease per million inhabitants with other European countries with a better position than we do, then you see that half of the data in Germany, the week of Swedish data, and sixteenth of the data in Belgium, are therefore successful in Hungarian defence, do not try to undermine the real performance of healthcare workers with such stories based on unrealism or with the inclusion of such actors, because those who worked there deserve all recognition. That is why the government decided that more than 160,000 health care workers would receive the HUF 500,000, half a million extra payment. I would remind you once again that you took a month's wages from health workers, and so we talk critically about the current allowance of HUF 500,000. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-08-16	Now, the leader of the Jobbik faction, James Peter. I give you the floor.
u2020-06-08-17	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! Well, you lied to me again. What a surprise. [[Voices from the pro-government benches, among them: Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you telling the MSZP?]] A year ago, I presented you with a proposal for a resolution with the aim of finally starting in the break-down parts of the country, catching up wages in the poorest counties, because it is not fair for a country to get much less than a capital city for the same job. Then you said that there was no need for this proposal, because the pay gap between the capital city and the countryside is growing most dynamically in the poorest counties. It's been a year since then. The latest data came in, and it turns out you guys lied. A year ago, employees in Szabolcs made an average of 133 thousand forints less than those in the capital. Today, that difference is 140,000 forints. Fellow Members, this is brutal! Here in Borsod, it's a complete payday. Last year, the Borsodians made $113 thousand forints, and today they make 120 thousand forints worse than the Pests, and the counties could still be classified. So, fellow Members, the Hungarian countryside in wages is becoming fatally detached from the capital, while I do not see this difference in prices. Bread, petrol, public transport, and overhead are as expensive as in the capital, and in many cases even more expensive. So, you can do this, fellow Members, you can put your head in the sand, and you can say that everything is okay, but the countryside is empty. Anyone who wants a better life will move to Budapest or the West, and everyone else will have the hunger and community service, or not even that. So I'm gonna ask you to get your heads out of your cigar smokes and see for yourselves. [[Defiance and intervention from Jobbik's ranks, pull him out of the cigar smoke, that's good.]] How Hungary lives in the countryside. Get your heads out of the cigar smoke and see the reality, fellow Members. We're not talking about a dynamic wage rise. So it's time to take over the curriculum one more time. Public companies must introduce the principle of equal pay for equal work! Just as the Szabolcsi representative can't make worse money than the metropolitan postman, so the Szabolcsi postman can't make worse money than the one in Budapest. Multi-nationals should renegotiate strategic contracts in such a way that these contracts not only fix discounts for multinationals, but also set a specific schedule for wage increases. In recent years, you have given HUF 15 million in support to the multinationals for each new job created, and this is not the end of the two-year working hours, which means that the Hungarian worker will be able to work until nosebleeds, who will have to settle for one day of rest each month. Colleagues, do not conclude a strategic contract with the multinationals, but with Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, because they would be able to do wonders with this 15 million HUF per job grant, perhaps even raise wages. We have said many times that, in the current situation, it is necessary to exempt workers earning below average income tax, which could mainly increase wages by HUF 40-50 thousand in poorer regions. Believe me, fellow Members, this money would be a much better place in the workers' wallet than in your pockets. [[13.50]] I could also say that it would be time to empty your pockets so that there would be something to raise wages. It would be time to introduce the Ripper tax to pay a special tax for all those who have been rich in government backwinds in recent years. At this point, you have to stop for a moment. However, the insolence is that the Fidesz majority of the Economic Commission voted against the introduction of the Mészáros tax on the grounds that the taxation of the Mészáros Lőrincs is unfortunately against the law, so that is now not possible. Colleagues, what's with the little faith? ! So far, everything you've planned in this country has been possible. If they wanted to, they could take the money from the opposition authorities, nationalise private companies, hand out casinos behind closed doors, put their hands on Lake Balaton. Now all of a sudden, is there something that's not possible, even against the law? And by any chance, this thing is a tax on the Butcher Lawrences? Well, wasn't it against the law that these bastards got rich? Wasn't it against the law that these people turned public money into billionaires without real competition? Now, when we want to take back some of this public money, to give it to the public, to have something to raise wages from Nógrád to Borsod to Somogy, and I might add, you're saying it's against the law and it's not possible? [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Demagogy!]] Think again, fellow Members. Because once the Hungarian countryside moves in this country, then, believe me, the Fundamental Law will not save you from failure!
u2020-06-08-18	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I don't know, you've heard the latest folk wisdom, and this is what it says: for two reasons Jobbik is weakening, one is leaving and the other is staying. [[Defiance from the pro-government benches, James Peter: What about salaries?]] But now let's talk about leaving. [[Peter James: Let's talk about salaries.]] Why they're leaving! [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Did you write or advise you to do this?]] If I understand correctly, that's their problem. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Have you thought about this?]] that they miss professionalism and thinking in the nation, because these are two topics that are not fit for new times in Jobbika, and it is clear that this is the direction, given that you are flying in an alliance with the Balliberal side, who has once had the opportunity to perform government performance in the context of crisis management. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Viktor Orbán was president of the Liberal International. That's what you're talking about.]] This is how he looked, and he has all touched on the people you have brought before this House. Your allies abolished the 13th month's pension. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Sit down. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why don't you answer the question?]] reduced the duration of the child, increased the general rate of VAT by 5 percentage points, included in the tax the family allowance, increased the retirement age, reduced the pension, took a month's wages from the public sector [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: What?!]] They wanted to introduce a real estate tax. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You really are sick!]] and, in addition, the country has been indebted to by an IMF giga loan. So during the time of that government, [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Peter James: You're good.]] With whom you have come together... The applause is for you. Congratulations. These are the measures [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You're a clown, you're just a clown!]] which the government with whom you have formed an alliance, and of the people whose case you would like to bring here now, hundreds of thousands of people have gone on aid, and jobs have been removed instead of jobs, and those who have worked have been taxed to death. By the way, left-wing self-governments are now united in the same policy, and Jobbik is clearly caught up to this. Jobbik led Ózdon women's wages were reduced [[Dr. Csaba Gyure: Fidesz dismissed me!]] In Miskolc, employees of municipal companies were reduced [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You sent the people over 55 to Kisvárdán! What are you talking about?]] In Hódmezővásárhely, a public servant's wage reduction was carried out with reference to the control of the epidemic. We think it's a shame, the left-wing authorities, and that includes Jobbik. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Shame you dismissed him! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Long live the party state!]] They're thinking about austerity. On the other hand, we are also thinking about preserving jobs and creating new jobs in the context of the epidemic. [[Dr. Csaba Gyure: You have dismissed the people!]] Economic protection measures taken during the first period of the epidemic [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are the servants of the multinationals!]] [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are the servants of the multinationals!]] , already 1.2 million workers (Daniel Z. Carpathian: You are the servants of the multinationals!) They helped me. Between 2010 and 2020, there were 850 thousand more people in Hungary than at the end of your ally's governance in 2010. The employment rate rose from 54 per cent to 70 per cent, the unemployment rate decreased from 12 per cent to 3.3 per cent, and the average wage increase you complained about was also 10 per cent per year. On the other hand, you are repeating the recipe for crisis management on the left again. This really isn't the word of professionalism. What's the problem with Jobbik? If you don't mind, I'd like to give you a Star Wars example, because there are many Star Wars fans in the group, I believe. I have two quotes for you. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Tell me more! Tell me more.]] One of Jobbik's founding statements. The primary task ahead of the Jobbik Hungary Movement is the Communists and the extremist liberals joined together with them. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You have all the MSZMPs and III/IIs sitting over there! They're all sitting right there!]] the removal of political power, the conscience of the current right-wing government, wishes to be Jobbik. The second quote from Star Wars was, "It was your job to destroy the dark side, not to come between them." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches. Dániel Z. Carpathian: How much did you work on this?]] Obi-Wan Kenobi tells this to Anakin Skywalker. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] I am pleased that, according to your own political beliefs, it would have been their job to oppose the Liberals and the Communists, not to come between them. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Have you thought about this much? Bence of Turdai: You are the dark side! Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: You are the dark one!]] The thing is, there's a saying that what we don't believe in ourselves, no one else believes us. If we don't believe in anything ourselves, they won't believe in anything. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We understand that you don't believe in it, but why do you say it?]] That explains it. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: We're going to therapy!]] Jobbik's run for months. The classic scene of a popular cartoon called the Catcatcher, when Grabowski is being chased by car, and so the pursuers worry:. It won't be good, we'll never catch up with Grabowski. We should figure something out, 'cause in the end, we can go back to the ballet. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Complaining from Jobbik's benches: It's the chimbrandt of professionalism! Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You are the peak of the profession! Has anyone ever told you?]] Yeah, we should think of something. [[James Peter: Tell a good story. Tell me a better story.]] 2022 is very close, and if you continue like this, people will send you home to the ballet to jump. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-20	Next up is KDNP's representative, Hajnalka Juhász. I give you the floor, Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-21	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, With regard to the 100th anniversary of our national tragedy, it is very important to talk about the importance of the neighbourhood policy. I think that the neighbourhood policy has two decisive approaches that I would like to emphasise: one is cooperation and the other, which the coronal virus has shown us, is interdependence. If we look at the international organisations in the neighbourhood policy to which our neighbours belong, I would like to stress in particular that from the point of view of security policy, all our neighbours are members of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. In the case of NATO, Serbia and Ukraine are not, and Austria is also internationally legally neutral. These are important directions to future challenges. I am very pleased that last week's meeting with the Ukrainian Foreign Minister was held with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It is particularly important here, I would like to stress it, and I am very pleased that this was mentioned during the meeting, the importance of intergovernmental joint committees, education policy, economic policy and minority protection, because this is where a new chapter can start in the relations between Ukraine and Hungary. I think it is worth mentioning in the context of the neighbourhood policy what a success story the Slovak-Hungarian relationship is. I think that investment in infrastructure, economic cooperation, is an example of which, as we have been doing so far, foreign policy must continue to follow this direction. Let me also point out Poland in the broader context of the neighbourhood policy, as the Polish and Hungarian governments have a very similar view of the seven-year budgetary framework, the EU's enlargement policy and the issue of illegal migration. I think that, in the context of the neighbourhood policy, we need to talk about the fact that it is the 21st century. The challenge of the century is for us and our neighbours to see and see clearly what we are different in, but in what we are similar. We need to build this kind of neighbourhood policy on similarity. I think that it is particularly important to see the Central European cooperation on the Romanian side, which has the maximum openness on the part of the Hungarian government, where we also emphasise the importance of Central European cooperation. If I say only as a positive example that the present Slovak government has also presented its programme in Hungarian, or that the national law on education and the draft law on minority status are being drawn up, these must be built on. I would also like to emphasise in the neighbourhood policy duck that during last week's Foreign Minister meeting, the Ukrainian Foreign Minister raised the issue of Ukraine's possible accession to the European Union. It is important to say that the future Member State that wants to be a member of the European Union must meet the Copenhagen criteria. This is why the meeting between the Ukrainian and Hungarian parties on the language and education rights of national minorities is extremely important. [[14.00]] I would like to highlight the professional part of the European Union's issue that the Treaty on European Union, although it protects cultural diversity, does not belong to the European Union, but the right of national minorities is neither divided nor exclusive, and therefore it has an extremely important task in which the Hungarian foreign policy and the Hungarian government consistently appear: this is the citizens' initiative, because here we can help the hiatus that is present in the European Union. I would also like to mention what Prime Minister said this weekend that states have borders, nations have no borders. CHAPTER XXI The protection of national identity and national identity is the most appropriate response to the challenges of the 20th century, which is why the political declaration, which highlights the importance of national identity, is of particular importance, since it is the common responsibility of all of us to know how to achieve the 21st century. to respond to the challenges of the 20th century by preserving our national identity and preserving our national identity. As Mr Speaker said last week during the festive speech, we do not need a policy of changing state borders, but a change in state policies, so it is cooperation and interdependence that can be the basis for common solidarity. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-22	I give the floor to Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In our case, the borders of the state and the borders of the nation do not coincide, there are historical reasons for this, and we have talked a lot about it here in the House walls and throughout the Carpathian Basin. This is why our neighbourhood policy must be put together and implemented with much greater care than other countries, where appropriate. Our relations with neighbouring countries are greatly influenced by the fact that large Hungarian national communities live in the territory of neighbouring countries. And we always strive to make these Hungarian national communities a resource, not just for us, but also for the country in which they live. For if the neighbouring countries see not the conflict, but the source of power in these communities, then the impact of this vision is definitely positive in the relationship system of the two countries, making the everyday life of both countries and the Hungarian national community better. It doesn't take a Nobel Prize-winning professor to understand and say the simple sentence that the Hungarian community across the border is much better off with the country than with the country. And of course, this seems simple and ridiculously simple, but if you think about what our bilateral relations with neighbouring countries looked like about 10-12-14 years ago, and how they had an impact on the Hungarian national community living in the territory of that country, then it doesn't seem so simple, especially ridiculous. We can say, honourable Member, that Hungary has never been as good in relations with these countries with Slovakia and Serbia as it is now, and it has a huge role to play in this, and I believe that the approach that is to build common success stories in practical areas of life. Be it transport, be it energy cooperation, be it cross-border infrastructure developments, these common success stories can build on the confidence on which we can open up difficult issues, but we can open them up with the possibility of closure among the hopes. We have seen that the new government has taken office in Slovakia and the Prime Minister himself has already made many gestures towards the Hungarian national community. We welcome this, the elected new Slovak government and the Prime Minister can count on the cooperation of Hungary and the Hungarian government personally, and it is in our common interest to make the Hungarian community in the Highlands a successful community. Slovakia is an important partner, our strategic partner, so the new head of government of Slovakia will visit Hungary on Friday at the end of this week. The good relations with Serbia are also based on the fact that the Serbian government also wants to turn Vojvodina into a success story, a common Serbian-Hungarian success story. The Hungarian support for this is not seen as some kind of hostile expression, but is seen as a support that strengthens not only the Hungarian community in Vojvodina, but also the whole of Serbia, and through this we can also stand on the basis of mutual benefits in relation to Hungarian-Serbian relations. And speaking of reciprocity, mutual respect is a very important aspect in relations with neighbouring countries, but overall in relation to Hungarian foreign policy. We give respect to all our partners, but we also expect respect to be given to us, because we are a state with a thousand years of history, a nation with over a thousand years of history. So you can't just talk to us. With regard to Ukraine, unfortunately, we are not there yet to record too many success stories, but there is also talk about the fact that the new Ukrainian Foreign Minister visited Budapest in the framework of his first official visit. We hope that the agreements that will encourage and succeed the Joint Economic Committee, the Working Party on Education and the Committee on the Protection of Minorities. We hope that in the coming period we will also be able to make progress in the return of the rights taken from the Hungarian national community, such as a Hungarian majority, with Beregszász-centred walk. Thank you very much for raising this subject, thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-24	Now it's time for the Fidesz faction leader, Máté Kocsis. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2020-06-08-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The coronal virus epidemic didn't end, but it's a new phase of defense. Everyone knows that epidemiological preparedness is necessary, because it is expected, not only in Hungary, but probably in a second wave around the world. However, it can be said that Hungary has successfully completed the first phase of the fight against the epidemic, and there are three reasons for this. One is that people disciplined the requests made by the experts of the operational tribe, they have been able to fight the epidemic together for a lasting, long time, with each other's attention and care for each other's health. The other reason may be that the experts involved in the epidemiological defense were excellently prepared and excellent. The third reason is that the government made the necessary decisions in time. A quieter phase of the epidemic now follows, which is suitable for Hungarians to express their views on measures, the economy and other important issues. National consultation is a well-established democratic tool that enables Hungarian people to express their views and make decisions that they consider important on such issues. This is also a priority because during the epidemic, we have seen that Hungarians in general, and perhaps this is the case everywhere in the world, take the necessary steps to protect against an epidemic more disciplined and cooperatively, if they agree to see its meaning. So these are the points of agreement that we need to find now, even if the left is constantly attacking the institution of national consultation. The coronal virus not only threatened the health of people and stopped the growth of the Hungarian economy this year, many businesses and jobs were at risk, and many sectors of the Hungarian economy were ruined. However, we are pleased to see that the government has not been using austerity, but has taken on the fight against the epidemic through the protection of jobs, investment and wage support. On the other hand, it is necessary to remind everyone that the treatment of a similar type of economic crisis earlier under left-wing governments looked like a burden on people and did not even ask them about it. They built on austerity, and all they did was ask for greater burden from businesses and working people. [[14.10]] The left has hit businesses with one of the highest tax burdens in Europe, while allowing banks and multinationals to pull themselves out of the common burden and get the 100 billion extra profit out of the country. On the other hand, the government has now involved the multi- and financial sectors in financing the cost of protection in the order of 100 billion in the fight against the epidemic. In the past, left-wing governments have threatened jobs, doubled unemployment, not only did they not have wage subsidies, but they have reduced wages. That is why we are pleased that the current government has chosen a different path, aimed at protecting the jobs of Hungarian people and protecting and maintaining the results of the Hungarian economy. It is also important to ask the Hungarians what they will say about the eternal bonds for the new plans of your spiritual leader, your mechanist, and it will also be important to know what the Hungarians will say to bring the countries of Europe into a financial dependence and to throw them into debt that they have never made before. We're going to tell you in advance that whatever international pressure you're putting on us and texting us through the media, there's no way we're going to assist this country financially to anyone. We would also like to point out that you have once given up our country's economic sovereignty, created a bankruptcy, took on an IMF loan, which was a painful thing to come out of, and this will certainly not happen again. But it will also be necessary to talk about the protection of nursing homes, given that one in four victims live in an elderly home in Hungary. We will also need to mention in the consultation how the global shortage of protective equipment can be avoided in the future. It is our duty together to organise how we should not be vulnerable to this. So, despite any left-wing attack, we strongly urge everyone to participate in the national consultation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] fill in the questionnaire and send it back, as there will also be important questions of fate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-26	It's Minister's word again. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, you are right, Hungary, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people's defence against the world epidemic have been more successful than we have seen in many other European countries. We thank all Hungarian people for their discipline, we thank doctors, nurses, teachers, policemen, who, even in the midst of extremely unexpected and changed circumstances, have given them the best of their talents, knowledge and diligence in order to say today that Hungary has successfully completed its first phase of defense. However, ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that according to the World Health Organisation Director-General's signal, although the figures in Europe are relatively good, there are trends and trends of great concern that can be observed in a global comparison. Nine out of the last ten days, more than 100 thousand new infections have been reported globally to WHO, yesterday 139 thousand, which is the highest figure in recent weeks. Moreover, no one can guarantee that a possible second wave does not come to Europe. There is no general immunity, there is no vaccine, so we need to prepare for the worst scenarios to maintain the epidemiological preparedness. And if that is the case, and if we continue to face this difficult situation, these serious challenges, then we need to create very serious points of agreement along which we will also be able to win the next stages of defence. This is why the government is launching a national consultation on the coronal virus, the protection against the coronal virus and the re-launch of the economy, as the pandemic has put not only the lives and health of Hungarian people, but also their workplaces, at risk. The 13 points questionnaire will be published this afternoon on the official government community side. All Hungarian citizens will receive the consultation questionnaire by post, and in terms of return we ask everyone to return the answers to us by 15 August. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that there is no financial barrier to protection against the epidemic. The Hungarian Government has made it clear that everyone has to take on the burden, and, of course, there will be a question about this in the national consultation. We have made it clear what is indebtedness, instead of being vulnerable, we are pursuing an economic policy based on jobs. I would like to inform you that 806 Hungarian companies have made a total investment of HUF 377 billion in the coming months, an investment of HUF 377 billion when only bad news comes from the world economy, and with this investment of HUF 377 billion, they will also protect 143 618 Hungarian jobs. Of course, there will also be an international outlook in the national consultation. Mr. Fraction Manager has pointed out that speculators are also moving. In Europe, there is a proposal to buy eternal bonds, which would mean the debt of practically all future European generations. György Soros's idea is that European countries should always, forever, pay interest on this particular eternal bond. It is clear that we will never agree to the debt of future generations; Hungarian people will also be able to comment on this. As they will be able to give an opinion on the protection against migration. Unfortunately, we have to admit that the pandemic is another driving factor for global migration processes. Insufficient action by some countries against the world epidemic can trigger new migratory flows. Therefore, in the future, in addition to health and economic protection, border protection will also play a very important role, and we will expect the opinion of the Hungarian people. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We ask everyone to respect us with the answer to the national consultation. Thank you for raising this subject, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-28	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the comments before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-06-08-29	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Erik Fülöp, independent; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Dániel Kárpát Z, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives submitted a speech before the agenda: Sándor Burány, Dialogue; Antal Csárdi, LMP; Gergely Arató, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; János Stummer, Jobbik; Miklós Seszták, KDNP; [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Zsigmond Barna Pál, Fidesz. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP applied for a speech after the agenda on Tuesday. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for the speech after the agenda on Wednesday. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for the speech after the agenda on Thursday. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP applied for the speech after the agenda on Friday.
u2020-06-08-30	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I'm gonna ask you to press your voting machine right now, and whoever doesn't have a computer working, I'm gonna need you to signal it. [[Attendance check. 161 attendees appear on the scoreboard, 38 are not present.]] Thank you. Dear House, We are now deciding on a time-frame negotiation. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward by the President initiates the T/10710 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals within a 30-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall also include the allocation of time limits. [[14.20]] I would like to inform you that the resolution house rule is 37. In accordance with paragraphs 3 to 4 of the Act on the Central Budget, it is not possible to double the timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2020-06-08-31	Dear Parliament, The proposed 30-hour timeframe is divided into 617 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 283 minutes for the KDNP Group, 208 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 194 minutes for the MSZP Group, 152 minutes for the DK Group, 131 minutes for the LMP Group, 125 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 90 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. Opportunity of the representatives of the European Parliament in Hungary to speak in the general debate in the House Rule 37. Article 2 (2) (h): if you have applied for a speech by the head of the group, the time limit for the group; if you have applied directly, in addition to the 30-hour time frame, an independent representative shall be entitled to a seven-minute period each. The representative of the ethnic minority invited by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, who spoke in the House Rules 37th floor. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 60 minutes, which is not included in the time frame.
u2020-06-08-32	Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. So I ask the Honourable Parliament, and it agrees with the T/10710. We will discuss this in a 30-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House agreed to negotiate the budget proposal in a 30-hour timeframe by 131 votes in favour, 32 against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask this House to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of infringements follows. Act IV of 2020 on immediate measures to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/10528. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. Noise.]] Dear House, We're taking a two-minute technical break. I invite all Members to leave the Chamber without delay, in silence, if they do not wish to take part in the debate. I didn't mean that the debate should be held between the two of you in here, but that they should go out. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Gyula Budai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-08-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 June 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercion measures and the 2013 CCXL. Act IV of 2020 on immediate measures to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation T/10528. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 2 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In February this year, the House discussed a draft law to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation. The general sense of justice of Hungarian citizens and society has been greatly violated by the ten billion-dollar industry, which has developed in recent years, called prison business. Lawyers linked to the Soros network have filed nearly 12,000 indemnification lawsuits against the Hungarian state, which forced the State to pay 9 billion forints of compensation to criminals who committed extremely serious crimes and sentenced to final imprisonment. All this has simply become unacceptable to the Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, The prison business industry clearly realizes the abuse of law, damages the Hungarian state, destroys public trust in justice and violates people's sense of justice. Not so long ago, the Parliament adopted a proposal aimed at restoring the balance between compensation schemes for victims of crime and inmates. This law was very forward-looking to call on the government to establish a new regulatory system to mitigate the damage resulting from the crime and to enforce the interests of the victims of the crime. It all happened before. The adopted law is an excellent tool to reduce the number of abuses of compensation lawsuits that seriously harm the sense of justice of society and to ensure better protection of the rights and interests of victims. In addition, it puts forward powerful proposals to remedy the prison congestion problem. Unfortunately, because of the emergency declared in the context of the coronal virus epidemic and the associated national protection, a new system of compensation for prison congestion was not possible and it was therefore justified to change the deadlines previously laid down. The deadline for suspension of payments, the original deadline, was 15 June 2020. However, in view of the situation, the deadline was extended until 31 December 2020. The proposal submitted extends the deadline laid down in the Act on immediate measures to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation to allow for the wider enforcement of the victims and the legitimate claims of the victims and relatives of the offences in the criminal matters concerned by the indemnification proceedings until 31 October 2020 instead of 15 May of this year. Dear House, Restoring society's sense of justice is a common concern for all of us, since it is in the interest of the vast majority of citizens to have their general moral perception heard. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-34	Dear House, I'll ask the author if you'd like to speak. [[Dr. Barnabas Hajas: Yes, briefly.]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Barnabas Hajas.
u2020-06-08-35	Mr President, Dear House, I trust that Parliament will support this bill. I have so much to say that the Commission's amendment is a family member or victim, let us call it, to simplify further the enforcement of victimial claims in these matters. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support and accept this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-36	Thank you. After the rapporteur has 15 minutes, the Minister of State has practically only spent half a minute of this, and he can use all the rest in the debate or in the closing statement. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Gergely Harvesto has come forward. Here you go, Congressman. DK's time frame is 13 minutes. [[14.30]]
u2020-06-08-37	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to begin by saying that I believe that there are very few among Hungarian citizens or even in this House, who would be particularly concerned about the inadequate circumstances or even the circumstances in prisons, and that is right. Prison isn't a vacation spot. We all agree on that. Punishment is partly a task of enforcing equitable social interests and, in this way, punishing those convicted legally and legally for the crime, and, on the other hand, ideally preparing rehabilitation, if there is a willingness and a way to do so for the person concerned. However, the kind of debate that we are having here in Parliament many times and the kind of bill that we are talking about here, and unfortunately, what the Commission's amendment improves a little, but leaves essentially intact, has nothing to do with the execution of sentences, has nothing to do with the legitimate needs of society, has nothing to do with the prevention of crimes, and, I add, has nothing to do with the compensation of the victims. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a political product. Compensations will be made in prisons on the basis of a law which you, the Fidesz Government, have adopted; a law which allows compensation in the event that the execution of sentences is unable to comply with the detention conditions laid down in the Government Decree. It is not the sunbathing, the lack of the gym and the sauna that can be judged here for compensation, but because, by the way, the detention conditions announced in the government decree may not be met by the Hungarian system of prison execution. When this legislation was adopted, they said that the necessary prison space would be built within a few years, and that the Hungarian prison system would meet these not particularly pleasant conditions, but the minimum of human dignity. You have not fulfilled this commitment. In January, they thought it was a good idea to make a political issue out of it, so they brought in a bill, which was nothing but to give themselves tasks: in a rather surreal bill, they basically suggested that the government take various measures: on the one hand, write a bill and, on the other hand, do something to reduce prison congestion. The fact that nothing happened in the second grade during the coronal virus epidemic, let's say it can't be reprimanded to the government, I don't blame it either. It is perfectly understandable that everyone had more important things to do at this time of year. But don't tell me that they couldn't prepare a law, because we just started negotiating judicial laws last week, that's what the government had power for. If I remember correctly, nine or ten laws are being amended by this bill. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says eight. My apologies, Secretary of State, this bill amends eight laws. The Department of Justice had the energy for this very prison compensation legislation, and it didn't have time to sort it out. [[His mic's falling off.]] Obviously, we have this bill in front of us so that we can talk about it now, and then later, when I... I'm sorry, I lost my voice, but I'm gonna get it back. So, so that we can talk about it now, and later, when the government does the homework and sees it politically appropriate, we can talk about it again. I have to say, this is not a good solution. It is not good in the first place, because otherwise the legal uncertainty will continue to persist in this way, and new demands will arise, since the fact that the payments are not being paid now, on the one hand, they will not lose their legal basis, they will remain the same payments granted by the court, on the other hand, the new cases arising during this period will be valid and enforceable in court, so there will be new cases, but these cases will also go to Strasbourg due to late payment, and there will also be new compensation obligations. With this procrastination, you will not eliminate the prison business to use this term, although this is not a very fortunate rhetorical turn of events, let us say that if you do not eliminate this possibility of compensation, but on the contrary: you give it more space, you give it more time to work and create greater claims for damages. So in English, they harm the rule of law, they harm predictability, and they do nothing to solve the problem. However, I would like to express my agreement on one thing, because this is important. Compensation for victims is a very important goal, but the government has made a good proposal for this in every detail of a not all, but of a good one. We are discussing this tomorrow, and we will support it, but this has nothing to do with this bill that we are discussing today. Once again, unfortunately, the amendments did not substantially improve the quality of the bill and did not resolve the fact that this bill does not have legal, judicial or just justice aspects, but was designed solely for political propaganda. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-38	I give the floor to Csaba Gyore.
u2020-06-08-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to begin my speech with two questions: on the one hand, who made it possible for this prison business to develop in Hungary? Who made it possible for the convicts, the criminals, to be released when they are released, to be released with compensation of 4-5 million forints in their pockets? Who made this possible in Hungary? The answer to my rhetorical question is quite clear: the Fidesz-KDNP faction made it possible. You were the ones who voted in favour of the government referral in 2016 to present the Minister of Justice of Trocsány in order to introduce the legislation that allowed prison business in Hungary. It was this legislation that required the inmates to receive compensation of up to HUF 1200 per day if the detention conditions were not adequate. If we multiply that by condemning someone for eight to ten years, then there will be very, very serious millions here. So that's the amount you're really responsible for paying for. They also defined the conditions: the heating is bad, there is not enough heat, if the toilet is not properly separated, the bathroom is not properly separated, then compensation is due, if there are bugs, compensation is due, if the ventilation is inadequate, compensation is already due. It was only Jobbik Hungary Movement who drew your attention in 2016 to the fact that with this bill you will open a business, a business in Hungary, a business from which lawyers and inmates will benefit. And how right we were today, Gyula Budai told us that the Hungarian state paid HUF 9 billion in compensation, so this business was about HUF 9 billion. And yes, that's what's responsible! I can't believe the Fidesz-KDNP didn't see in 2016 what this law, what effect it will cause. Yes, you must have seen it, it is not Jobbik who is such an excellent visionary of the future, although obviously we are of the future, but we can see this, but we have already seen in 2016 what kind of problem this will cause, and we have also drawn your attention before the vote in the speech and in the comments that this is a fundamental violation of the sense of justice of society. It offends you because you then adopted a bill, and by the way, none of the opposition parties supported it, only Fidesz and KDNP accepted it, and Jobbik voted consistently against it, so we were the ones who saw what kind of problem this would cause. What did we put the emphasis on then? Victim protection. We said that the compensation for the victims should be dealt with, because we saw in a series that the victims would not receive the amount due to them, that they would not receive their compensation. So this was a serious problem, and we saw it in big cases, and in big cases we saw that unfortunately this was not happening, so we suggested that the government should be more concerned with this than with the compensation of criminals. Then, on what grounds did you pass this law? It was accepted on the grounds that the problem would be solved, because we would quickly build four or five prisons, and then they would not be overcrowded, because at the time there were 138 percent overcrowded prisons. [[14.40]] And if these four or five prisons are recovered, those extra 5,000 prisoners will be placed in different prisons in Hungary, there will be no overcrowded prisons immediately, so no compensation will be paid. Well, you've justified this, and how many prisons have been built since then, ladies and gentlemen? I ask you how many, because you promised Ozd, you promised Chenger, Kemecse, and you promised to go to every prison in the country. Well, we don't see these anywhere, they're not recovered. And there's one very interesting thing about this bill right now, because they don't touch the custody of prisoners. How are they gonna figure it out? The original deadline stays until September 30th. What does that mean? It means that you will undertake to arrange the placement of 2500-3000 prisoners by 30 September. I ask you, is there a long three-and-a-half months until September 30th, are these prisons going to recover? In 2015, you undertook to build these Bv institutions. There was no time, there was no opportunity, there was no money, I don't know, it's obviously the government's responsibility, but they didn't recover. So you're gonna build it until September 30th in three and a half months? I find that hard to imagine. Indeed, I say and think that Fidesz-KDNP, on this subject, should indeed apologize to Hungarian society; we should apologize to Hungarian society for throwing away HUF 8.5-9 billion from taxpayers' money, because this money has been thrown out and paid to the convicts instead of solving this problem. Nothing has been done, it is the failure of the government, and therefore the government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction should be burdened with apologies to the Hungarian people. So this 2500-3000 must be settled by 30 September. This bill, which is now before us, does not provide a solution. I am very curious how they will resolve it; once again, they will delay solving the problem. I have repeatedly suggested that you may wish to give amnesty to these prisoners? I'm asking you. Well, I very much hope that they will not unleash that 2500-3000 convict on Hungarian society. I'm telling you to apologize. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-08-40	I now give the word to Gyula Budai again, at the expense of the time frame of the Fidesz fraction.
u2020-06-08-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would say to my fellow Member, Harvester, that the date of 30 September was not affected by the legislation, and I would also say that to Csaba Gyüre. Your position has improved a bit in the course of the general debate, because there you firmly stated that we want to resolve it with amnesty. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: I asked!]] The Democratic Coalition said the same thing, however, that we intend to resolve the date of 30 September by giving amnesty to thousands of people. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Congressman, you can look back on the record, I was here at dawn, Varga-Damm Andrea wasn't here, so you don't know what I'm talking about. Congressman! You're basically saying the same thing as in the general debate, these empty phrases on your part, Jobbik says the same thing. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Can we still speak?]] Congressman, the situation is very simple: tomorrow the Parliament will vote on this, we will vote on it on Tuesday, the left one must admit to helping or rejecting the prison business, that is all. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Oh, no, Gyula!]] That's all, you don't have to put up these creative thesis, what the Fidesz is up to, what the Fidesz isn't up to, and that he wants to advertise amnesty, and he doesn't want to advertise amnesty. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: This is a complicated professional debate, you know?]] You have to admit to yourself, the left, who are sitting across from me, including Jobbik, that you are helping or rejecting the prison business. It's that simple. You don't have to go to very high places here. Plus, as a practicing lawyer, with this amnesty, I've already told you at dawn, you should be careful, because it's kind of like taking you out on the field, which I'm not sure it's gonna work for Jobbik; of course, I think you don't care anymore. [[Gergely Arató: Why all this legal work here in Parliament?]] So, ladies and gentlemen, the task is very simple, and I think that tomorrow we must press either yes or no buttons. If they press no, it means that they will continue to support lawyers linked to the left or to the Soros network who have actually made hundreds of millions of forints of prison business. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: We did not receive a scholarship!]] We had that debate, by the way, and I do not want to open this panel again, what circumstances were there when the original legislation was born. I think we've been through this before, and there's a decision to be made here. I'm curious whether you support the elimination of prison business or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-42	The next speaker was Mr János Volner. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, My position on this bill is clear: I reject all forms of prison business, and as a right-wing man, there is nothing else I can do. However, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the international environment: a global campaign has been launched on the left to ensure that law enforcement, justice and enforcement are both subject to ongoing attacks by left-wing and liberal forces, with the accusation of racism and later all other discriminations, and these campaigns are repeated and intensifying. And I would also like to point out to my fellow Members that this left-wing and liberal campaign has become so powerful that in many cities of the United States, Minneapolis, the latest, the dissolution of the police and the brutal cuts in police budgets have been raised. In Hungary, we have seen in relation to the prison business that people who are clearly linked to the left and the liberals have acted in order to make hundreds of millions of forints in prison damages for law firms. I would remind my fellow Members that, when Jobbik was a right-wing party and formulated its own electoral programme, we laid down principles such as self-sustaining prisons, where the work of prisoners ensures the return of detention costs and their return to the working society. I, of course, continue to claim these principles and objectives. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-44	It's Csaba's word again.
u2020-06-08-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! Dear colleague Gyula Budai, I'd like to answer your question as to whether the Jobbik rejected the prison business. Well, my answer is, Gyula Budai, and I tell everyone, my fellow Member and everyone that Jobbik rejected the possibility of prison business in 2016, even when this law was introduced, we rejected it in 2017-2018-2019, and in 2020 when we voted on it, we rejected it, and we will reject it in the future, so our position is absolutely clear and consistent. And then I'm gonna ask you what Fidesz's position is about rejecting the prison business. I answer: In 2016 Fidesz and KDNP supported the prison business, and even enabled prison business to develop in Hungary. Then I'll ask you who belongs to the Soros network, who supports the Soros networks if you've made it possible for the Soros networks to make money out of this. Then you will cooperate with the Soros networks. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]]
u2020-06-08-46	I don't see any other speakers. If that's the case, I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State to say the closing word.
u2020-06-08-47	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the one hand, we continue to believe that the deadline for the elimination of prison congestion will not be changed by accident, and accordingly the government is working to provide a sufficient number of detention facilities at the agreed deadline, as Mr Budai said. I would like to note that it seems that we are indeed dealing with a time machine, given that Congressman Gyüre has indicated that they have seen the future. And I feel like we're in the general debate in 2016. In the context of the general debate in 2016, it is worth noting that in the context of this solution to indemnification of detention conditions in prisons, the payment of indemnities related to detention conditions was significantly reduced by tens of billions of HUF. [[14.50]] That is because prison business, as such, has already appeared in proceedings pending before the European Court of Human Rights. That is why the government was forced to do so, and the Parliament accepted the solution that allowed compensation to be paid by way of a solution that preceded or triggered the procedures in Strasbourg. Obviously, the past period has shown that this opportunity has been used in an organised manner. I would like to note, as Mr Arató said, that a bill, T/10860, was tabled specifically to enforce the victim's claim. Legislative proposal No 1 which significantly simplifies the enforcement of civil rights claims in criminal proceedings and also significantly simplifies the enforcement of claims which are not enforced in criminal proceedings. In view of this, I ask that the Parliament adopt the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-48	Thank you very much. Now, when the debate is over, I am calling for a break, which will take us 15 hours and 30 minutes. Then we will continue our work with decisions. (Recess: 14.51 15.31) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2020-06-08-49	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to welcome you. Please take your seats so we can continue our work. We will continue our work with decisions. Once again, please take your seats. Dear Parliament, Before we begin the voting procedure, we now have a traditional presence check to verify the functioning of the voting machines. Please press one of your voting keys to your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] 165 present, 34 absent, the Parliament has a quorum. It follows that the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, T/10733, on the publication of the Protocol on the eradication of illicit trade in tobacco products, is to be concluded. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/10733/1. has submitted an adjustment, which is available to everyone on the House's network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10733. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 167 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. The 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of infringements follows. Act IV of 2020 on immediate measures to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation T/10528. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10528/5 and T/10528/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10528/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 140 votes to eight, with four abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament, because the final vote is to be adopted by T/10528/7. I ask you to vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 139 votes in favour, 8 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. decision to amend a parliamentary decision. S/10929 put forward by the President We have all been able to get to know the proposal on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-08-50	Dear Parliament, 1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament a parliamentary decision hereinafter referred to as 'the parliamentary decision', point 1 shall be amended as follows. The National Assembly is independent of the Committee on Defence and Police Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm, who has previously become an independent vice-president, Dr. György Lukács László Jobbik is elected Vice-President of the Committee, Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm is independent of the Committee on Justice, Gergely Farkas is independent of the Committee on Culture and György Szilágyi is elected as member of the Committee, and Dr. György Lukács Jobbik's membership of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is terminated. 2. Point 2 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows. Instead of Dr. Brenner Koloman Jobbik, the Parliament elects Tamás Sneider independent, Gergely Farkas instead of György Szilágyi Jobbik - independent member of the committee. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2020-06-08-51	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/10929. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 159 votes to 1 with 6 abstentions. We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[15.40]] I ask my fellow Members to take their seats. I'd like to get back to work. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that, according to the minutes of the meeting of the House Committee on 4 June 2020, the fractions of the Christian Democratic People's Party and the Jobbik Movement for Hungary could not agree on the order of the speeches, the 10/2014. Decision No 17/B On the basis of the provisions of §2 of the Act, the order of opposition of the political groups concerned was decided today by the notaries of the Parliament. On the basis of the results of the draw, the Jobbik Group will be ahead of the KDNP Group in the order of the intervention during interpellation, oral and immediate questions until the start of the next ordinary session. The result of the draw already concerns the order in which the immediate questions and answers are given on this sitting. As long as the number of members is equal, the order of the speeches shall be changed at regular sessions. I would like to take note of the above. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter James, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Chief of Staff, Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister István Nagy was entitled to respond. I respectfully ask, do you accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2020-06-08-52	I'll wait with patience.
u2020-06-08-53	Thank you very much. Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. MEPs Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask Mr László György Lukács, on behalf of the Members who have put an immediate question, whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-06-08-54	I'd like to wait for the Minister, thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-08-55	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Members that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of the management of the national assets:, you have concluded it, but will you comply with it? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of the Minister's absence, Mr János Fónagy has appointed Secretary of State to respond. I respectfully ask you, accept the person of the responder... [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. The congresswoman indicated her acceptance of the response. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It has been less than a month since the adoption of the Balaton Shipping Company. a great deal of reorganization, but a new development has come to the surface. In this submission, there was no indication that the Supervisory Board had discussed this proposal, this proposal. It's the Ptk. The third book is 27. In accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 2 (1) of the Act, these proposals must go through the Supervisory Board and the position there must be submitted to the decision-making body. The reason why I am asking this question is because Adrian Szajcz, a member of the Supervisory Board at the time of this vote, informed the public in the social media that this did not go through the Supervisory Board. There are two possible cases. Or what happened was that Congressman Szajcz, Vice-President of the Somogy County Assembly, by the way, my fellow Member Witzmann's former personal assistant, remembers badly, and yet the Supervisory Board has discussed this proposal, or the other case is much worse than that, that this reorganisation plan did not go to the Supervisory Board. In this case, we fully believe that the reorganisation plan does not comply with the legislation in force, its adoption was illegal. And I would like to draw attention to a special coincidence: when the Hungarian State entered the Balaton Shipping Company. In its ownership, they signed a contract in which they ensured that Siófok, as the largest municipality, had a shareholder stake in the company, delegated one person to the board of directors, one person to the supervisory board. You didn't allow it, you torpedoed it twice. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State with all due respect: what is the reason why Siófok was not allowed to fill these two seats; and what happened at the Supervisory Board meeting: have you really not discussed this proposal? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-08-57	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-08-58	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, The technically correct and brief answer is that the general rules of the civil code quoted by you concerning the company and the specific provisions of the special law on companies grant minority minority rights, so if there is a dispute within the company, I ask that, under the law, who believes that he has suffered an injury, he should go to the court. However, in order to facilitate this decision, I respectfully inform you that the Hungarian Tourism Agency, as the majority owner of BAHART, does not contest Siófok's right of nomination in the Board of Directors of BAHART, but in one case there is a difference of professional opinion between the candidates of the city of Siófok, while in the case of the other candidate, the membership of the board is considered incompatible with the deputy mayor's office. Otherwise, there is no debate on the appointment of the Supervisory Board candidate. What happened at the Board of Supervisors meeting, as the Ministry of Supervision, I can only answer correctly if I ask the company that question. I'll be happy to come back next time. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-59	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a moment, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-60	Thank you very much for the floor. I thank you for the answer, and we will certainly submit this in writing, because it does not matter whether the Supervisory Board has discussed this proposal or not. Of course, this will require further investigation. The fact that you or the Hungarian Tourism Agency have raised professional objections against Gyula Horváth's former CEO's candidacy is quite simply amazing. He led this company for forty years, which is exactly why Siófok wanted to delegate him to this body, so that a very complex person with professional knowledge would really look to the interests of Siófok. We only assume with these decisions that you want to close the gates from Siófok, because the mayor of Siófok, Róbert Lengyel and, by the way, the local opposition parties in Siófok stand to the fullest for the Balaton shipping, for the Balaton sailors; that is what we expect of you. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.50]]
u2020-06-08-61	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-62	Thank you, Mr. President. Since my fellow Member has mentioned Balaton sailors and the Polemary about Maharaj, allow me only briefly to quote the opinion of the most competent, the Balaton sailboats, who say that a new timing can begin in sailing, quite slowly many processes are ripe for radical changes. Among these, they highlight the lack of berths, the absence of hosts, the problem of the fast e-ship, the situation of supply and many other issues that really affect the daily life of the Balaton water life. I believe that it is in your interest to support the changes in this regard. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How is that?" It's an address. Mr President, because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister István Nagy has given the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[Dr. László Kács: Yes, thank you.]] Thank you very much. He indicated that he would accept the identity of the responder. Congressman László Kács has the floor, please.
u2020-06-08-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We could read it this weekend, there was an ember debate about the government's financing of the municipalities now better or less. We can, of course, provide a wide range of data on this, but the most talkative is obviously the actions. We have already seen how you refuse to take note of the municipal elections on 13 October. Even though the Prime Minister said that he wants to cooperate with the opposition-led cities, he wants to cooperate with the capital, and then we can see how the central government absorbs their tax revenues, their own revenues, and then we can see how it makes the operation of these municipalities impossible. Here in the capital, for example, one of the biggest debates is that it should be renewed, and when one of the symbols of the capital can be restored, one could say a national symbol, Széchenyi's chain bridge. Everyone has agreed that it needs to be renewed, but you are constantly throwing around the cost of this, not least every year the capital will be deprived of so much money by withholding taxes, by withholding local taxes, from which this could be done every year. [[Attila Mesterházy: Shame!]] Compared to this, the priority project in Hungary today is to pour the Liget, the City Park into concrete, the priority project is to build a railway line in gold prices from Budapest to Belgrade, the priority project Paks, but the bridge, Széchenyi's chain bridge, which is on every photo, postcard or postcard of Hungary, whatever it is you recognize about Hungary, you are arguing with the Mayor, and everything else is much easier to solve. I am therefore asking the Minister when this will be a priority economic objective. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-06-08-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-06-08-66	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Cooperation with municipalities is a very important issue. We have been through a very dangerous period, and a successful defense has been made possible by the fact that everyone has done their part in proportion, by the government, by the municipalities, by the civil society organisations, and by all well-meaning people, in order to be able to effectively defend themselves against the epidemic. This is why the first fight is practically won, and it can be said that in the first phase of this struggle we are beyond, the normalization of life is restored, and therefore the questions come about how the economy will develop further, how to proceed. I thought, when you said this problem, you raised the problem of the Chain Bridge, and then read what a problem the construction of the Chain Bridge was. There was still opposition, land speculation, corruption, God knows what accusations were not made about the construction of the Chain Bridge. How interesting, these voices have faded, and we don't even remember who said it, only the writing remembers it. The Chain Bridge stands, and, as you said, one of the main sights and main sights of Hungary and Budapest, thank God we have it. The fact is that the government is holding to maintain all the agreements and subsidies that István Tarlós has made and agreed to do. You should decide for Mr. Mayor Christmas whether you want it or not. The fact that he doesn't go to that council meeting where they're gonna deal with this is his problem. You have to go, you have to decide, you have to set a sequence, what's important to him and what's not. As he considers this to be competent, as he considers it important, then the government, which he has promised, can properly add it. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-67	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman László Szakács. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-68	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, He answered a lot of things I didn't ask him, but I'd respond. Cooperation was successful, and emergency protection was successful, from which everyone took their part. What you take from the banks will be returned twice next year, and otherwise they will take away the same amount from the municipalities. This year you will take 60-70 billion from Budapest, and next year you will lose 130-140 billion. That's what I call cooperation. Let this be a warning example for everyone who cooperates with you. The second is that he says that because the mayor has not left, no decision has been made. Where did you coordinate the Liget project? Here, in Parliament, they made a law! Where did you check on the Citadel? That's where the government could decide for itself, didn't it need the mayor? Isn't that in the capital, Minister? I think he's in the capital. It would be worth having a law on them, even on the Chain Bridge, as on Budapest-Belgrád or Paks II or the Liget. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-08-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-70	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Cooperation with local authorities, and if you look at the proposals submitted by the budget, the 200 billion-dollar loan facility that we provide to municipalities will allow them to farm from a higher source in the coming year than they have done this year. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So this is an opportunity for municipalities, and there is no need to forget that there was danger and danger to be expected. So everything on the budget, which is now on the table, serves, on the one hand, to restart the economy and to prevent the dangers and consequences of the epidemic, because we need to be prepared for what happens if it returns, how we can prevent it, how we can strengthen the economy so that we can be in the right condition if it returns in the autumn or in the period of 21. So all the sacrifices we make are not in vain, and I think that's what the municipalities understand. If there is indecision, if they cannot decide what order to take, the government has also changed its order of operation and priority [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] precisely so that the most important ones can come to the fore. That's what I'm recommending to the mayor of Christmas. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-71	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Was everything a lie? Where are the supposedly millions of tests? Where's the humanity? Yet they throw away the people of the nursing home? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State Bence to respond. I respectfully ask you, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-06-08-72	Thank you very much, Mr President, I accept. I'm getting used to Mr. Secretary avoiding me.
u2020-06-08-73	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-74	Dear Secretary of State, I think there are some ground rules that we can agree on. One is that, unfortunately, this epidemic will remain around us for a long, long period of months, perhaps years, and the other is that one of the great findings of the epidemic was one of the great findings of the pandemic sweeping the world, that the most vulnerable are those living in closed communities, nursing homes and social institutions. We know this very well, because we have often talked about it here, too, that one of the only infected people in the area can infect hundreds of residents, and unfortunately, these institutions have the highest number of deaths. I'm not sure we agree, but for you people living in nursing homes, they seem to be nothing but statistical factors, people who have actually been abandoned by the government during the Covid epidemic, who are least considered to be sentient and flesh and blood, people who need to be appreciated and protected, because they are the ones who left this country to us, and you are the ones who are bringing this country home from brick to brick. [[16.00]] And it is quite astonishing to me that the fate of the governing parties was important to those living in nursing homes until the Habony propaganda media was able to take spectacular clips of speeding ambulances, chief medical officers, nurses in protective suits, or elderly sick people with desperate faces. However, when it comes to ensuring continuous coronal virus testing in all elderly and social homes, the response of the government and the governing party is cynically nothing but the need to still filter people in nursing homes. Secretary of State, did the speeches last so long? Where are the daily-singed, supposedly millions of tests? What are you saving up for? Why are they saving money? Their propaganda campaign is over, and now they're throwing away, sacrificing people in nursing homes for a few million forints, while the Prime Minister's son-in-law and kisses continue to gain weight from billion-dollar government subsidies? When will people in elderly and social homes start to be screened? Thank you very much, I look forward to your honest, confessional reply. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-08-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-76	Thank you very much. Allow me, Congressman, to say a few facts in response to your speech. Obviously, all governments are submitting their budgets, and we can tell by how much they want to take care of. Your last budget included HUF 325 billion for social and welfare institutional services. The budget now submitted is not HUF 325 but HUF 776 billion on the same line. This means that the increase in the last few years is more than HUF 451 billion than you originally intended, HUF 325 billion. The expenditure for social purposes increased by 139 percent, i.e. 239 percent. The reason why you are so upset, honourable Member, when you speak, is because there is no fact to support your claims, especially not a budget number. This amount is so low because you have reduced both the normative subsidies and the wages of those working here, you have taken a month's wages from those working in the social sphere. On the other hand, this year we started back in the social sphere with a 14 percent wage increase from January. During the defense, although only a fraction of the social institutions were state-operated, 16,5 million surgical mouth masks, 4.1 million pairs of rubber gloves, 50,000 liters of hand sanitizer, 75,000 liters of surface sanitizer, 66,000 robes and many other protective equipment were provided; in addition to the fact that from the earliest date, the chief medical officer ordered a visitation ban and then a admission closure, precisely so that there would be no problem in social institutions, and if there were, the minimum possible. Filtering also takes place according to a priority order. First, larger institutions and institutions where there were more infected, then where there was an infected one, and finally smaller institutions where they were not infected. As the head of the WHO office in Hungary said, unlike you, he is calm and calm, while you are upset... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Which I'm going to give you in the next minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-77	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Zoltán Varga. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-78	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I'm curious about the second minute of why I'm upset. All I can tell you is that unlike you, who talks about billions, all I want is a few ten million forints. And I wanted to hear a date, such as the fact that tomorrow we're going to start filtering out sick old people in nursing homes. But we didn't hear that. What we do know very well is that your boss has just visited Alexander Lukashenko and brought him 165 million forints just to allow his dictator friend to wreath a communist monument to allow his buddy to shake hands. This money would be a better place to be at home, Mr. Secretary of State, for example, with our elderly, sick people, who are now desperately waiting in social homes, when you will say a date, when you will really and seriously start to deal with protecting these people. Unfortunately, this date is missing. I trust the next minute will be the same date. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-08-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, May 5th is the circular in which the Chief of Staff ordered you to begin testing in these institutions in the order I just described to you. 6 billion HUF is the amount that the government gives to the Metropolitan Municipality this year to maintain the elderly homes in the capital, and it has been used by the Metropolitan Municipality in such a way that more than half of the infected live in metropolitan nursing homes, and three quarters of the deceased have come from capital institutions. This shows that the capital has not acted in good time as a maintainer and is trying to explain its certificate in hindsight, compared to what Hungary generally says is one of the most successful defence countries among European countries. However, perhaps only five capital cities in Europe can produce worse results than Budapest. So what the WHO said: the results show that the authorities are doing their job, they are able to detect new cases, and they are conducting a test if necessary; and they say that the Hungarian authorities are carrying out these tests in an even greater proportion than the WHO recommendation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-81	Thank you very much, Congressman, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, he has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond. I respectfully ask Mr. Group Leader whether he will accept the person of the responding party or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-06-08-82	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-06-08-83	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Group Leader, and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How much longer? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to your absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2020-06-08-84	I'll wait for the Minister.
u2020-06-08-85	Thank you very much. Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff an immediate question: "Whom do you support? It's an address. Minister Csaba Dömötör asked for a reply because of his absence. With all due respect, I congratulate you on being here in this House. To accept the person of the responding person, or to ask the Minister for the answer in person.
u2020-06-08-86	Thank you, I accept your response.
u2020-06-08-87	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-88	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the kind words. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, If your daily practice were to say that word magic would have a real impact on reality, we would now say that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe would be the most profitable and the most crisis-resistant. Unfortunately, it's not. And if we overlook the ten billion-dollar dividends that are being taken out of companies, then again, not small and medium-sized enterprises can be happy, but the same economic circle that your policy is constantly supporting. In the economic crisis caused by the epidemic, this is not a matter of taste, Mr. State Secretary, but very much of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people, and it is about their livelihood. It is clear that you have not changed, nor have you set the goal of supporting Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. The Hungarian Tourism Agency now distributes 150 billion out of taxpayers' money, and of which accommodations and five-star rural hotels larger than 100 rooms receive a total of HUF 85 billion of non-refundable funding. And let's see who's in this support group. We know from the government media that there are no oligarchs in Hungary, so from now on we can call them the top dogs of NER. For example, 14 rural hotels belonging to Lőrinc Mészáros will receive nearly HUF 18 billion in total, and he is the good man who dismissed 850 employees from his hotel chain in April. So maybe the job-creating government couldn't give this money to a better place than this, could they? But CDHT Hotel Projekt Kft. linked to the Garancsi-Csányi-Hernádi trio. For example, István Tiborcz's former business partner receives more than HUF 8 billion of tax forints, and the company of László Szíyj, Lőrinc Mészáros's business partner, receives HUF 8 billion. [[16.10]] So we're back together again with the big team! Why don't the Prime Minister take care of business? You said you didn't care, didn't you? But my question is, why friends? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] they fill their pockets with these money, and why not help hundreds of thousands of Hungarians who are unemployed. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2020-06-08-89	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-08-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your speech left out that this is a much earlier development programme. It started in 2017, and this program started with small rural pensiones and accommodations smaller than 100 rooms, a total of 300 billion people, and I would like to tell you that 500 newly renovated pensiones will be waiting for their guests, despite every example taken. There is currently a development of high capacity and five-star accommodations, but there is another section ahead of us, and that will be the renovation of private accommodation, camping and holiday homes. Whoever receives this kind of support [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] The basic requirement remains unchanged: taxes must be paid (Bence Tordai intervenes). , regulations must be followed, laws must be followed in the same way. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) We think that this accommodation development program (Bence Tordai intervenes.) (Bence Tordai intervenes) , it makes a major contribution to Hungary becoming a tourist destination for Central Europe. Despite our differences, I trust that you agree with this goal. Thank you for listening. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the situation is now once again to explain the unexplainable: there is an incredible amount of money that ends up in my buddy companies. And if we look at what happens to hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, according to the latest figures, 140 thousand Hungarians have become unemployed in addition since the beginning of the crisis. You don't support these people, and you don't support small businesses. And if you say that taxes have to be paid, then a very good initiative is the bill submitted by our faction that NER riders should pay dividend taxes. This, Mr Secretary of State, you know, means that if you only paid this dividend tax after two companies of Lőrinc Mészáros, you could save about 100,000 jobs. So when this bill is in front of the committee, you can vote on it and you can testify to what you believe in. In the meantime, there will be facts like a lot of people who have been given support with this specifically focused on buddy companies. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and those who have just started a new business and are related to you. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]] Thank you.
u2020-06-08-93	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Csaba Dömötör State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-08-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am well aware that left-wing parties would increase taxes almost without exception, including many other taxes. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] For example, corporate tax or income tax would be increased. As far as jobs are concerned, job-preservation, job-creating wage support, investment aid is already a guarantee of keeping hundreds of thousands of jobs. Returning to the topic originally mentioned: I regret the fact that you are attacking a tourism development programme in such a way that you know very well what a difficult situation tourism has had with the epidemic: revenues and traffic have fallen by 97 percent. So I'm asking you, please, not to judge such an aid scheme on the basis of not just coming from the government, but from using it to the country or not. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] This programme is good for the development of tourism. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Exactly!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Timea Szabó, Head of the Group and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on here? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister István Nagy was entitled to respond. I respectfully ask Mr Bence Tordai to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-06-08-96	We'll wait for Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-97	Thank you very much. Honourable Member, the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. It is also Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, who want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. I respectfully ask Congressman Bence Tordai to accept the person of the response, or even now...
u2020-06-08-98	We'll wait for the Minister, yes. Thank you.
u2020-06-08-99	Thank you very much. The Member therefore indicates that the Minister is still personally required to reply. The Minister must reply at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, the representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, he has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond. [[By car-Cake Olivio:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-100	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, After the outbreak, after two months of closure, many people on Lake Balaton plan to relax and vacation, but the question is what conditions and especially what prices will receive them there. More and more municipalities are increasing prices on the beaches and taking entrances to former free beaches, because the government is hijacking its revenues on account of the epidemic. There are also two beaches in Fonyód, which were free last year, and they have fixed it from a free beach frame, and now they are picking a ticket. This is a very good example because the Fidesz mayor, József Hidvégi, and now pay attention! He made the beach pay on the grounds that the government was taking so much money on account of the epidemic, that it was necessary to get away with it. Dear Secretary of State, How long will they continue to oppress the local governments? How does Lake Balaton belong to everyone? Honourable Secretary of State, a family of four has a week's vacation with travel, accommodation, meals and these beach passes, with a lower voice of 270-280,000 forints, and there is nothing in it yet. Due to the security distance, free beaches are expected to fill quickly, so these citizens can only go to paying places if they want to take a bath. The Dialogue suggests that, this summer, in order to give as many people access to the Balaton as possible to support them, local governments that maintain a free beach should be rewarded, or the price of entry should be reduced. Mr Secretary of State, the government is willing to reward, compensate for the municipalities that open and maintain a free beach, reduce ticket prices in order for everyone to have Lake Balaton. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-06-08-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-08-102	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, it is important to say that the fight against the virus and the epidemic is a very complex and very costly task, it is now beginning to be forgotten, while, by the way, Hungary is one of the countries in Europe that have best protected against the epidemic. But why did you defend yourself the most? That's because the government took care of it in time to raise the funds in time. The government also said that everyone in the country must be in solidarity, everyone [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] The government, in the first place, businesses, which unfortunately have a decline in their revenue, have reduced their order, private people, private individuals, and unfortunately also local governments, which have their own revenue and their own decision-making powers. I know that this hurts you, and you acknowledge that everyone has solidarity and that you should contribute to our successful defence, but not the municipalities alone, because that's where you're interested right now. As far as your specific suggestion is concerned, for people who have been able to get into a beach free of charge, it is certainly good news that they do not have to pay tourist tax. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Because the tax on tourism will be paid by the State instead to the municipality whose income is lost. As far as prices are concerned, this is definitely non-governmental competence and non-governmental responsibility. Everyone who farmes, runs a beach and baths, decides for themselves because it's free price, the price at which he works; he'll work at a price that the market will allow, which people will still pay. That municipality will certainly do the same, and all the municipalities in Balaton will do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.20]]
u2020-06-08-103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-104	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, You did not answer the question of your willingness to compensate these municipalities. I think that would be an incentive. Interestingly, in connection with Lake Balaton or tourism, you have given very serious help to Fidesz companies and Fidesz friends, and you have received tens of billions of dollars from your hotels and yacht ports in these places. If you are so devoted to this solidarity and to this solidarity tax, then I have a proposal. Perhaps from these companies whose revenues here on Lake Balaton exceed billions of forints, collect solidarity taxes and give them to municipalities that open free beaches or provide free beaches. I think everyone would be better off, but ordinary Hungarian people would certainly be better off with this. Thank you.
u2020-06-08-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-106	Honourable Congressman, So it will be compensated, as I said. Not on the basis of what you said, but on the basis of the tourist tax. So for the government to compensate a municipality for loss of revenue, not an alien thought, it will happen. By the way, if you want to introduce a new tax, you have the right to do so. He will submit his proposal to Parliament, the committees will discuss it, and it will be decided that he will come to Parliament and we will vote on it or we will not vote on it. Your party, the Dialogue, is a party to the tax increase anyway, because they want to solve all the problems by bringing in a new tax type. [[Miklós Soltész: That's right. Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] The current government is not in addition to that, but is in favour of reducing taxes, such as the social contribution tax, which also affects municipalities as well as all Hungarian businesses. Besides, we are interested in the fact that as many people as possible will go to Lake Balaton in the summer, and the Hungarian people also want to go, because according to a survey, 50 percent of Hungarian people want to travel in Hungary. We hope that this will also mean a significant surplus for the hosts of Balaton. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-107	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Csaba Nagy, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: how do the opposition authorities contribute to crisis management? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Miklós Soltész has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman Csaba Nagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-108	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We can have months of trying behind us, which took great effort from all of us. Thanks to the contribution of our excellent experts and the discipline of Hungarian people, we have successfully completed the first phase of defense. However, in order to overcome the economic crisis caused by the epidemic, it does not matter what means we use. While the government prioritises the protection of jobs and the promotion of families' livelihoods, there are a series of firings, cuts and cuts in left-wing municipalities. This is familiar to all of us, for even when they were in government, they had always resorted to austerity. In the current epidemic, people were put on the street and their salaries were reduced. Please allow me to give you some insightful examples. Niedermüller Péter led Erzsébetváros, while reducing the salary of the district kindergarten teachers, gave several tens of millions of orders to Ferenc Gyurcsány's lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, charged with tax evasion. In addition, while the government is trying to help businesses, the same municipality wanted to ex postly sabotage the hosts. In Józsefváros, András Piko took the residence of medical workers, policemen, and firefighters. In Hódmezővásárhely, Mayor Péter Márki-Zay's salary was left unchanged, while other civil servants were fired and their salaries were reduced. The salary of the kindergarten teachers was reduced until August 31, in Ozdon, under better management. In Miskolc, the left was taken from the wages of the physical workers; the left-wing Vác also reduced the salaries of several workers. On this basis, I believe that the Hungarian government's programme is a solution for the Hungarian people: it provides wage subsidies; it has reduced taxes and contributions for workers; it supports the retention of jobs, it creates new jobs. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how the opposition authorities are involved in crisis management. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltesz. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-08-110	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, we are indeed beyond, at least in part, a difficult situation that has brought both human ordeal and economic hardship to many, many people, decision makers, workers in the fields. On one side, there was a fantastic stand, both humanly and economically, and on the other hand a multitude of mischief. And if you'll allow me, I'd like to list a few, too. The mayor of the country is here, Gergely Christmas. [[Demercation and interruptions from the benches of opposition parties, including the country... the president's ringing the bell.]] Gergely Christmas, while others struggled day by day for human lives, he did not try to help the people living there, not only did he not set foot in the elderly institutions in the capital. It's not a coincidence. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] That two thirds of those who died in nursing homes consisted of institutions in the capital. This shows that this is the consequence of a punk-ass man leading the capital. And it can be further classified. You can further mention the many, many cases you have said, what Peter Niedermüller has done, to reduce the wages of the kindergarten teachers from one side and to cripple businesses from the other. Why? Because you think that's how you can cover the wages of the lawyers and others you prefer. By the way, the businesses that the opposition is so concerned about right now will be destroyed unless they are supported by government representatives, such as István Bajkai in this district. If he doesn't speak, they'll put in the parasol tax, and I don't know, a lot more. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] So I think what you've listed, and everyone in the country thinks so, at least the great majority, clearly shows that the anarchist left, which is right here right now, is, let alone, an anarchist left. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He doesn't do anything for people, but he wants them to get hurt even in a situation like this. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-111	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-112	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, although many of my fellow left-wing Members here did not like what you said and obviously did not like the questions, we are not surprised. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties. Dr. Gyula Budai: They're not even in there!]] But I would like to say in any case that in the coming days we will be discussing the budget for 2021 for the country, where the support of municipalities will increase by 16 percent to HUF 857 billion. And if you think about the fact that the Hungarian government not only gives support to local governments but also to small and medium-sized enterprises, I think that the difference can be played. [[On the sign of Péter Ungár:]] Now a fellow Member has yelled out about our support. [[Péter Ungár: That's not what I yelled at...]] I was just today at the State Department, trying to introduce the economic recovery program to the press. I would like to inform my fellow opposition Members that, overall, 806 companies will start investment in 948 locations, to which the country will spend HUF 377 billion with them. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Miklós Soltész is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-114	I am curious about the attitude of the left, because we are going to debate on the one hand, and then vote on the budget for 2021, which will include, among other things, a series of decisions of the government programme, from this year until 22, we will spend 9000 billion, 20 percent of Hungarian GDP on economic development and economic protection programmes. Will you vote for it? I don't think so. Do you support him? I don't think so. They've never done it before. By the way, their economic attitude is catastrophic, but their human attitude is no more evident than Gergely Arató's statement on a TV show that unfortunately the number of people who died in the coronal virus is not bad. It should be said that the current left, quite sad, is good at being sarcastic, good at sarcasm, good at raising taxes. It tells us everything about them, what their thinking is, what their actions are. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and their attitude towards people. Thank you very much for the suggestion. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Sándor Bodó has appointed Minister of State to respond to his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-06-08-116	I respectfully accept it.
u2020-06-08-117	Thank you very much. As for Congressman Adam Steinmetz, please. [[16.30]]
u2020-06-08-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Summer's here, and as they say in Somogyland, the weather's out. In order to bring the Hungarian economy back on its feet in the crisis of the Crown Virus, we need rested and ready to act. The minimum condition for this is that when they leave after work or rest on Lake Balaton, they do not have to wrinkle for hours in the vehicle. But it won't be easy to avoid this, because according to the data of the Hungarian Road, 90,000 motorists will soon use the M7 daily, and thousands of families will start to eat a good flame on Lake Balaton and enjoy the sunset in Balaton. And this way, what do we see? Mile-long traffic jams near Marton Fair now, no forwards, no backs. Doesn't that ring a bell? In the back seat, the younger child screams, and the older child asks the question every minute: when do we get there? Dear Secretary of State, For decades it has been a recurring problem that huge traffic jams on the M7 make it difficult to get to and from Lake Balaton. Practically from the beginning of June to the end of August. The Budapest-Balatonlelle route can be taken rarely in three hours, even though the journey would only take an hour if it could move forward by 130. Therefore, I respectfully ask what concrete measures will be taken in the near future, in the near weeks, to prevent jams occurring on M7. Will you finally expand the M7 to three lanes, for the sake of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families who regularly use the motorway? Are you willing to do this, Mr. Secretary, yes or no? We're waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-08-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-08-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Fellow Members! It was a mysterious question for you to ask whether it was yes or no. We can think of anything, but the fact that you have the biggest problem right now, in this situation of traffic on the roads, that makes me think. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, not just his, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Of course, it's not just his, I understand the back yelling, because we're all on the road, and in this situation, the most important thing is that everyone arrives safely and gets home. The use of a section of a road obviously also depends on where it leads, what the region is visited with, what intensity it has, but it is very, very important that not only the Lake Balaton, but also other sections of the road develop in the country, and it sees good examples of this. With regard to your specific question: when renovations and maintenance begin, obviously these tourist periods are followed by our colleagues, and indeed during the period when the maximum load is present, these works should preferably not be carried out, or only at a time when they cause the least damage to transport. Of course, there is no guarantee of this, since there are errors that need to be corrected so quickly that they cannot be delayed. I can't promise you that there will be no traffic on the M7 during the summer season, and I know that there will be, because you can see it. [[Defiance from the ranks of Jobbik and Dialogue.]] That now, in the next period, very many of our countrymen choose to spend their freedom in Hungary. Obviously, one of the favorite places to do this can be Lake Balaton and its surroundings. What I can tell you is that if in this emergency we may only have to make so many sacrifices that we have to wait a little longer on the roads, this should not be a big problem. Let's be careful, let's be safe, let's all arrive. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-06-08-121	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ádám Steinmetz. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-122	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. I didn't expect you to promise me that there wouldn't be any fucks on the M7 in the future, but that they would do something about it. For example, neither in this year's budget nor in next year's budget, we do not see the targeted support for these improvements. But shouldn't it be spent on expanding the M7, among other things, instead of making pointless visual investments? But since you seem to be unwilling to do so, I suggest a few things in agreement with professionals. Let's open the shutdown lanes periodically to traffic. Let's build a stage-shift highway between M6 and M7. Make transport safer by using the existing Veda system. Also promote public transport [[A round of applause from Jobbik and Dialogue.]] for families with cheaper bus and train tickets! Dear Secretary of State, Be kind to respond substantially to these suggestions. Honestly, after ten years, I think it's time you did something to avoid jams on M7. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2020-06-08-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Sándor Bodó is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-124	Thank you for the floor. Obviously, there's no argument between us that we don't necessarily have to drive to Lake Balaton. But I'd be happy to ask you when you took a train or a bus. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: It's a good thing you can't answer. Elegant! Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] So obviously, in this situation, we need to consider the options. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact that you have raised the option of using the shutdown lane, and I think that it should not be used precisely for this purpose, as it is also possible to use it under the rules of the FRSZ for vehicles that are differentiated in the event of an emergency. I don't think we should experiment on this for a few minutes or even half an hour. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. What does the Government do to create a healthier urban environment and to mitigate the effects of climate change? It's an address. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In October 2014, the European Council adopted the 2020-2030 climate and energy framework, in line with which our country has developed and in 2018, the national energy strategy 2030 and the second national climate change strategy were adopted. In this document, the Parliament declared our country's commitment to climate protection. In order to implement the objectives set out in the strategy, climate action plans have been drawn up for a period of three years, setting out the main areas of action based on the three pillars of mitigation, reduction, adaptation and approach-forming. In the second national climate change strategy, specific objectives include decarbonisation, transition to a low-carbon economy, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. In the framework of last year's national logging programme, state forestry farms are planting more than 550 hectares of new forest in their own areas, with 2 million woodlings and almost 100 tons of acorns being used. In a decade's time, the new forests will conclude about 8 thousand tons of carbon dioxide per year. The Christian Democratic People's Party is committed to supporting climate protection. This is an extremely welcome initiative. I would like to ask Minister what the government is doing to create a healthier urban environment and to mitigate the effects of climate change. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-08-127	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-06-08-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Our country is committed to climate protection. All the struggle that we are making for the survival of our world is a very good activity. He has very well listed the decisions that we have made in the past year, because our ultimate goal is to increase Hungary's forest frying area from 22 percent to 27 percent. We started by putting in place the 550 hectares of public forestry, mentioned by you, and then we introduced the rules in the rural development programme so that private forest farmers could also receive more favourable subsidies for the wooding of new areas in order to really increase the size of the areas. It is also important to maintain the quality of forests, so we will also launch specific programmes for them. The latest program now is to expand the range of activities that we are doing for the environment of our settlements, to mitigate the effects of climate change, and this is to launch a settlement-furnishing programme with a budget of about HUF 500 million. [[16.40]] The aim of this is to raise awareness and create social awareness, as the area of public areas, kindergartens, schoolyards, educational and municipal institutions will be covered in settlements of less than 10 thousand people. The programme is absolutely free for municipalities. This means that the municipalities, institutions, church and civil organizations may require 12 thousand large, pre-educated, internally planted logs. The 12,000 logs, as well as their transport, are from Kiskunsági Forestry and Fapari Zrt. ensure that in the order of arrival, minimum 10, maximum 36 will be available per settlement. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-129	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-130	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. This commitment to planting trees and building trees is also very important because last week we remembered our national tragedy, the 100th anniversary of Trianon, when our country lost two thirds of its forest areas. These objectives are extremely important for the implementation of national energy and climate change strategy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-131	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll give the floor to Minister for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-06-08-132	We are calling and waiting for everyone, the force that is involved in civil society organisations and municipalities to participate in this programme, because it is important not only to plant it, but also to maintain it and look after it. The more people involved in this process, the more people committed to environmental protection and nature protection. You can find all the details on the www.orsagfasitas.hu website. We encourage, call and wait for everyone to apply and participate in making our environment better, more beautiful and more livable. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-133	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Madam President, because of the Minister's absence, Mr Sándor Bodó has appointed Minister of State to answer. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita says yes.]] The congresswoman tells me that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-134	Thank you very much. Dear House, There is a wide range of working people that the government is putting at extreme disadvantage. They're the temporary workers who are incredibly vulnerable. In the first six months, they are not obliged to pay the same wages as other workers employed in the same job. They don't deserve cafeteria, they live in constant insecurity, the collective agreement doesn't apply to them, and they don't have to be union members at the company where they work. They get shorter notice, lower severance pay, so it's easier to fire them. As they are usually used only for a short period of time, they cannot obtain credit either. Many youths among them are thus unable to reach their first home. Last year, the number of temporary agency workers reached 150,000. In particular, it is disappointing that almost half of the workers in the temporary agency are women, more than 65 000 workers. Families and wives are held in such a vulnerable situation, often in the most disadvantaged areas. Secretary of State, please change that. Let's put an end to the looting of temporary agency workers. They cannot keep mothers, fathers, and children dependent on them unsure of existence. That's why I'm asking you, do you intend to take steps to ensure that temporary agency workers get the same rights as other employees. What do you think justifies their current discrimination? What data do you have? How many temporary workers were affected by the corona virus and how many of them were women? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-08-135	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-08-136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman! Fellow Members! Well, indeed, the case of temporary agency workers is a special employment relationship, but you can see that there is interest in it. There is interest in it from employers and from employees, although you are certainly arguing with this. A lot of people are willing to work in this form. There are specific reasons for this, mostly of a nature that only the individual knows but does not want to make public. In this situation, flexibility, mobility that sometimes exists is very helpful to the employer, but I am willing to accept that it is not the most suitable form of employment for these people. Of course, in this situation, it is very important to consider how and how their fate is going, and I can say that during the period prior to the coronal virus, it was quite possible, because there were tens of thousands of vacant posts in Hungary and they did not show up. So rather, they undertook certain odes of temporary employment that you mentioned, but did not specifically undertake to apply for these free jobs. The coronal virus situation has obviously just changed this situation. The first was perhaps this sector's fastest response to this emergency; indeed, it was a visible halt. But from the last two to three weeks' data, it is clear that temporary employment is increasing. He asked about government help, what we could do and how we could do it. Well, what I can tell you is that in the context of job protection wage support, we have extended this support option to those companies who have been working on temporary employment, so we have been able to help these people, for whom you are, and believe me, the government is concerned, and we are doing the same for them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-138	I wasn't reassured by your answer because I didn't hear much concrete. Your government is constantly claiming how family-friendly you are. Do you think it's family-friendly to keep 150,000 families in existentially vulnerable? Is it a family-friendly act to condemn about 65,000 women, mother, to humiliating insecurity? Is it a family-friendly government that allows temporary workers to retain their wages, or can they be fired overnight at any time? Written questions were answered, and I quote: "The person who lost his job because of the crisis caused by the epidemic will be rehired at the latest three months later. Let's put this on record, we'll ask for it. Everyone who doesn't get a job after three months will be sent to you. I suggest, Mr Secretary of State, that you take steps to change this situation, or tell us openly that you are not interested in the fate of Hungarian families.
u2020-06-08-139	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is the subject of Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-140	Thank you very much. Congresswoman, I don't usually run away from answers, and when they come, they actually come. We'll help whoever we can. In particular, in this situation, I can say that there are several ways to emerge from an emergency after an emergency. On the one hand, there are persons who can be linked to public employment. You have sometimes handled this with a slap in the hand, and believe me that in public companies, there is a great need for employees to apply. Then, obviously, there was also an opportunity for companies that we can support with job-creating support to engage. I think it's a very final case, and we agree that someone should return to public custody after they've worked in the competitive sphere. So to say that we don't deal with these people, I think it's unrealistic. We're doing our job, obviously depending on the country's economic situation, its potential. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-141	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:, What future does the government intend for the Hungarian gene banks? It's an address. Congresswoman Anett will take the floor, please.
u2020-06-08-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, CHAPTER XXI The global processes of the 20th century have created a number of good processes, but there have also been many processes that have been damaged by society and nature and wildlife. I think it is our shared responsibility to look for solutions to harmonise economic growth, sustainable development and nature conservation. I also think that we need to be prepared for natural disasters that we do not yet know will happen, but gene banks can significantly help us to replant whole species, including animal species, plant species, where appropriate, in our country. I don't think there's any argument between us. Unfortunately, the domestic processes of the past period show that our preparation for the future has fallen short of the preparedness of our partners in Western Europe, both in terms of nature and environmental protection, and I believe that this will have economic and social consequences. However, I believe that our country has a strategy to support genetic conservation institutions. In addition to support and strategy, it would be extremely important to pay attention to the fact that industrial parks in the vicinity of gene banks cannot have an impact on these gene banks in the least or ideal world and do not destroy these natural environments in which they exist. [[16.50]] It is very important that new businesses created on a market basis and new jobs help our country to emerge from the crisis. So there's no argument between us either. But we should harmonise these two goals, so I respectfully ask the Minister what future the government intends to have in Nonprofit Kft. to Hungarian fruit tree banks maintained and operated by Hungary. Thank you.
u2020-06-08-143	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-06-08-144	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, I have to say, I agree with you, and it feels good. We can agree. Gene banks have a huge role to play in today's world. I could also say that we often lose because Hungarian agriculture has exactly the response of gene banks to the activities of international GMO lobbying. For us, it is an infinitely great value, which we have here, in our various plant species, the obscurity-bound varieties that have evolved over a thousand years. Hungary has the sixth largest gene bank in the world, so it is a value that can provide a sufficient response to climate change. Our job is to find the particular type of landscape, the structure that has evolved in these gene banks in response to different weather conditions. And I have to tell you that we have that ability. The genetic conservation strategy was redesigned and developed for a reason: we merged the Farm Animal Gene Conservation Centre and the Nödik, the plant gene conservation centre, and a diversity centre was created with which we wanted to indicate exactly how important this sector is. We have assigned HUF 12.3 billion to implement this program. So there's a priority role. And when we talk about fruit trees, if there is, which brings with it a very long breeding time, it is of particular value; remember some of our programs, at the church gardens, let's save some courtyards and programs. We've all come up with the fruitry that's in our gene banks, and thank God, there are great people who have discovered it. In Göcsej, different types of pears are installed, guarded, passed on to us, all of which are of such value. And I think that the 12.3 billion programme, too, the gene conservation strategy, is precisely what will help this to be of decisive value for Hungary in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-145	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Anett. Here you go. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]]
u2020-06-08-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your detailed and professional response. I'm extremely happy for you. I will give you a very specific example, because I see it, and I am very happy to see that we agree on a lot of things. My question would be, for example, that the Elvira major in Érd is practically the largest stone fruit gene bank in Europe, which we are rightly proud of, but that is not enough, NIPÜF Zrt. in its management, the industrial investment area, which is directly adjacent to Elvira Major, is important to be used in such a way that an industry that does not pose a threat to the gene bank present there. In fact, I am going further, and it would be important for all gene banks to have some kind of dual harmonisation, as I said in my original speech, so that economic growth and the preservation of gene banks can be achieved together. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK, LMP, MSZP, Dialogue.]]
u2020-06-08-147	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Minister István Nagy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-148	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. I must say to you that the professional work that is going on in Érden under the leadership of János Apostol is a value that we are all proud of. The protection of this whole has been repeated several times in various debates and in various forums. The antagonistic struggle is that the city of Érd wants to develop an industrial park, and we want to preserve the gene bank, and we do not want it to be at its expense. I have to tell you, there can be no reason to jeopardize the gene banking area and our gene banking population. The breeding center that is there represents so much value, so much belonging, so much organically part of the Hungarian research that it is not possible to give a single cent of it. We understand the tight position of the city of Érd that he wants to expand, but he does not need to expand to the genetic conservation center. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-149	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What about everyday heroes? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of Prime Minister's absence, Minister István Nagy was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister for an answer personally. [[Péter Ungár: I accept.]] We have heard that Congressman has accepted the response. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-150	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, His fellow minister, Miklós Kásler, explained or justified why social workers would not receive a one-time payment of HUF 500,000, like healthcare workers, so that they would not receive a quote for the additional salary,, because their institutions are self-government, civil or ecclesiastical. The fact is that the Minister, also responsible for social affairs, does not know that, it seems, there are also elderly homes with state reservations. So I would like to begin by saying that if such a mistake had been made by a opposition politician, we would not be able to hear anything except that Csaba Dömötör is constantly incompetent. This is currently also the Minister for Social Affairs, a man who does not know that there are elderly homes in state reserve. The fact is, it is clear in your policy that you have forgotten that there are state-owned nursing homes, because in the last nine years zero new beds have been created in an elderly home in a state reserve. But I would like to ask you, Minister, that, after your fellow minister, who is responsible for this, could not give factual reasons for not receiving a HUF 500 000 wage supplement for those working in the social sector, when the two conditions, which, as a matter of fact, justify this salary supplement for healthcare workers, so that they worked overtime or that they were at risk of an epidemic, try to state a sane argument as to why they are not entitled to this one-time wage supplement for those working in the social sector, for those working in the home, in the care of children, in a disabled boarding institution or in a nursing home. Give me an argument, not a political panel, not a sentence about why they've been attacking this party policy program for three months, making an elderly home. Instead, tell me why you don't pay these everyday heroes. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-06-08-152	Mr President, Dear House, My dear fellow Member, The activity of everyday heroes is infinitely important. I mean, the fact that I can stand up here today, and I can report it to you, and you can experience in your environment that the first stage of the fight against the epidemic was successful is due to this. The people who asked the neighbor if I could get you something from the store or what I could do to help, that's where the key to success came from. And there is indeed a high priority for those working in social institutions. After all, they cared for fallen, elderly people, and put themselves at risk so that it would be okay, and with as little loss as possible, the greater security that can be provided to the people there, our needy fellow humans. It is extremely important that we say this and thank them even orally. What I can tell you is that the government has not dealt with this issue, that the government is standing before the government to decide on this issue, and as soon as the government decides that, you will obviously be informed about it. Thank you very much for asking. [[17.00]]
u2020-06-08-153	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-154	Thank you very much for an unusual professional response from the EMMI. The fact is that it is June at the same time, as promised in early July, this one-time HUF 500,000 will be paid. So it would be good to get this knowledge as soon as possible, because sooner or later it will be there, or it will not be in the account of these everyday heroes in early July. Well, thank you is a very good thing, but thanks don't pay the rent, that's the problem. So here's the thing: 500 thousand forints is not something that would burden the budget so much, Minister. So please represent this next time at a government meeting. 42 billion forints is about what this one single HUF 500,000 would mean for social workers. I will not begin to compare 42 billion forints with the various items of the budget, because you have also tried to put it calmly, but believe me, this budget fits, these people deserve it, and they have not yet been able to make a sane argument as to why they are not getting it.
u2020-06-08-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister István Nagy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-06-08-156	Thank you very much. Mr President, My dear fellow Member, Because when the government decided on this benefit, it was the health workers on the front line, all the news was about them, all the eyes were on them, and they were the ones who had to write the message that they should stick to, do their job, and then we'll settle it at the end, and now the health workers are being accounted for. That's what happened, that's why it's in this order. I have to say to you, I think that Hungary, in contrast to many criticisms, when the health situation and the state of health is often criticised, has done excellently. So that much - criticized system was able to endure, and there it was the will, strength, and knowledge of those individual people who did it. They were at the forefront, focused on them. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] all the other services will then follow, to examine and decide on this. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-157	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[For signal:]] Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-08-158	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mihály Varga has submitted the budget plan for 2021, and we see that there is no money in it for basic income, that is, for life safety; there is no money in it to increase unemployment benefits, but there is no substantial money in it to protect jobs; there is no money to raise wages by 100% for health care workers; but there is no money to raise wages for social, cultural or educational workers. There's no money for climate protection, no money for green light. There is no money, but there is austerity, austerity in local public services, which you implement in the form of withdrawal from local authorities. There is a very harsh, quadrupled tax on the municipalities, and people will suffer. The withdrawal of the vehicle tax alone is HUF 34 billion. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]] But there's money for a lot of other things. There is always money for Lőrinc Mészáros, that is to say Viktor Orbán, and there is money in the draft of the Ministry of Finance led by Mihály Varga for the new palace of the Ministry of Finance led by Mihály Varga. This palace costs HUF 55 billion, which has only increased by HUF 7 billion in the last six months. But how much is 55 billion forints, the cost of moving from one headquarters to another? This is about the price of 2 to 3,000 apartments, which would solve the housing crisis for 10 to 15,000 people, about that many people were evicted last year. Forints 55 billion are twice as much as the II., allegedly represented by Mihály Varga as an individual Member of Parliament. The total budget of the district, which, by the way, will be reduced by eight percent on account of the blessed Finance Minister's activities. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] My question is that Mihály Varga's 55 billion-dollar palace is still part of the Puritan government, or this is the beginning of a new era. I'm curious to hear your answer.
u2020-06-08-159	Thank you. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister, who will answer the immediate question.
u2020-06-08-160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, let's clear a misunderstanding. When you say that the local authorities have to pay four-fold higher taxes, you do not read the budget all the time, that is because the municipalities will receive state aid in their entirety. So far, the municipalities above 32 thousand HUF/major industrial tax capacity have received reduced state aid and were in the budget in a net way. In the future, however, the aid will be 100 percent, and the social contribution to be paid will also be 100 percent. This is why the tax to be paid by the municipalities has increased. So this is a misunderstanding, let me get this straight, this balance is zero, by the way. What's in the budget, if you don't mind, I'll talk about it. There are, for example, economic protection, because there is a virus, an epidemic, and there is an economic crisis, a crisis, because tens of thousands of people are losing their jobs. After all, the priority is to help these people, and there's money for that. There's money, so that people, families, don't fall at all. No one will be harmed in this budget, unlike in 2008, during the crisis management of the socialists, your friends. So I think the first priority, after all, is to help those whose jobs would be lost or lost, and to have a new job and a new livelihood. I know this is hard for you, because you want these people to receive aid, and something will happen to them. I think that we can list for hours what is in the budget, and if you will allow us to do so on Wednesday from the beginning of the general debate until the end of the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-161	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. So let's get this straight, so the solidarity tax is going up four times, in Budapest and in every district in Budapest, four times as much has to be paid to the state. From now on, the Municipality of Budapest is a net contributor to the state budget. The fact that you don't take this money away from people is a ridiculously transparent lie, because when you don't have a kindergarten teacher, because you can't pay your wages when you don't take the garbage, when less buses and trams start, because you can't afford public transport when the streets get trashy and the spaces are messy. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is the responsibility of Gergely Christmas.]] then people will understand that your withdrawal, your austerity policy, has led us here. But then again, how much does this famous Treasury Palace cost? Is it really true that it serves to accommodate between 800 and 1,000 people? Is Mihály Varga's 55-billion-dollar palace really worth 55-70 million forints to place a desk? Are you calling this Uring or Puritan government? Tell me.
u2020-06-08-163	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-164	Honourable Congressman, You don't know or you don't understand, or you don't want to understand, because you're talking nonsense. I have just told you that operating aid for municipalities is increasing by more than 100 billion on the support side, and on the other hand, the amount of deposit is increasing by nearly the same amount. Its balance will be about zero and even favourable to the municipalities. What are you talking about, endangering the operation of the municipalities, when, by the way, financially you don't understand that there's a number on the other side, it's also in the budget? [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] The number is that the government gives over 100 billion more support to municipalities. I don't know what to do with that. And the fact that you are Mihály Varga because your opponent is expected to be Mihály Varga here in Parliament in 22 and you use it to have a government objective [[Bence of Turda: 55 billion-dollar headquarters.]] In order for the ministries to be located in worthy buildings, you do not support this. You have never supported any renovations or improvements in Budapest, only what Gergely Christmas would do. I wish he was doing your Lanchi, but he's not doing that either. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-165	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Horváth, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman. [[17.10]]
u2020-06-08-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent times, the public has been rightly and reasonably shocked by the news, reports, video footage that appeared on social media and all about school violence, the victims of which were always vulnerable teachers and students. There is widespread rejection of this phenomenon, as wide as there is broad agreement that all teachers and students have the right to human dignity. As the majority supports the right of all teachers and students to be safe in the educational institution, they have the right to teach calmly and to learn freely. These rights must be guaranteed by the State and, if necessary, protected hard and decisively. There's no place for violence in school, and there's no place for violence, because where there's violence, you can't teach or learn. From the school where there's violence, who can do it, he runs away, he backs out, and sooner or later, the school's maintenance is in danger. The example of Gyöngyöspata pointed out this harmful process, where most of the local children no longer go to their own schools, they have to go to different settlements every morning. In fact, they and their families pay the price of violence there, in that settlement, they are the real losers, and the settlement that otherwise loses most of its children. The majority also do not understand why, after all, millions of people who have been violent or who have been avoiding school for hundreds or thousands of hours have been given a judgment. What does the government do to reduce and eliminate school violence? Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-08-168	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think everyone can see that there's no place for violence in school, that we can never talk about it inside the school walls. Therefore, the government must act in all similar cases. On the one hand, he must also act for students who want to study in peaceful conditions. If there's no order in the classroom, if the students don't listen to the teacher, then there's no way that there's teaching-training work going on, and the whole class, all the students, is gonna have to pay for it. That is why we need these measures, because those who go to school want to study there, pay attention to the teacher, learn their lesson, do their homework, it is not possible that others who are aggressive towards them or against the teacher will be impossible to learn them. And, of course, it is also necessary for those who are aggressively, offensively, or even physically assaulting teachers in school themselves. This is unacceptable, a teacher should be treated with respect. We all owe a great deal to our teachers, to the fact that we've become the people we've become, our teachers have the greatest role to play after our family. Therefore, everything must be done to ensure the safety of teachers; not only for the sake of financial security, but also for the sake of physical security, which is the 10 percent increase in teachers' wages this year and the salary increases of school principals. It is therefore important to set up a school guard and, on the other hand, to tighten the criminal code, that the acts committed by students in school against teachers should be more severely punished. And obviously, there is a responsibility not only for the student but also for the parents, so it is necessary to take more stringent responsibility for the parents who take up school support for the child, but not for the child to be disciplined at school, to listen to the teacher there, and to behave in such a way that the other students are not disturbed. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-169	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-08-170	[[No sound.]] Thank you for the floor. [[He's looking for his microphone.]] Excuse me.
u2020-06-08-171	Take your time, Congressman. [[László Horváth puts his microphone on.]] We count the time.
u2020-06-08-172	Excuse me. Thank you for the floor. Thank you for your answer. We agree, I think, that there is a basic school requirement that sounds like it is strictly forbidden to threaten, humiliate, intimidate or abuse teachers at school and elsewhere. All students and all families must comply with this requirement, regardless of their origin and social situation. And there's another important message, and it says that it can't be a successful model that says that it pays to avoid school and to be violent. We can't allow that. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-08-174	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent years, we have adopted numerous amendments to the law, which are precisely helpful to those who come from difficult circumstances. We accepted compulsory preschooling from the age of three so that anyone who comes from more difficult family conditions can get to the level by the age of six or seven during the three years of the kindergarten to start the school with which he becomes a school maturer. It's not just a year to do that, it's three years to help them. With schools and other programs, we wanted to help families, providing digital tools to help these families, who needed extra money to keep the student going in the regular procession at school. But there is a minimum duty of cooperation for everyone at school, the lowest level of which is not to interfere with others or to harm their teacher, but there is also obviously a higher level to try to learn according to their abilities. And those organisations that are trying to make money from it, whether I am thinking of the Soros organisations themselves, or some of the families that have been encouraged to sue for students who have not gone to school, but who are able to make money by launching different procedures, and that rightly offends the majority of people. That is why this business must also be brought to an end in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-175	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Minister Sándor Bodó granted the right to reply to his absence. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the person who's responding, or...
u2020-06-08-176	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-06-08-177	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-08-178	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The European Union's decisive policy is the development of the countryside, in order to prevent overburdening and to provide an adequate quality of life for people living in the countryside. The depopulation of the countryside is the breakdown of the country's healthy settlement structure. The Union recognized, the Hungarian government did not. The Hungarian government can only think of short-term destruction and does not care how much damage the potential momentary savings will cause in the future. Mr Secretary of State, you and your government are going against Europe right now: while Europe is developing community transport, the government is destroying it. In my district, Karcag 20,000 and the 12 thousand citizens of Tiszafüred are the victims of this destruction, as well as the 12,000 inhabitants of the villages. There have been railway transport between the two cities for 120 years, including the settlements of Berekfürdő, Tiszaszentimre, Kunmadaras, Tiszaszőlős and Tiszaörvény. That's what he's planning to do now, wipe out the government. It does so by not having any meaningful dialogue or real consultation with the local authorities concerned and the association of small regions. There is no evidence that it is more economical to replace the railway line concerned with bus services. The reckless political decision does not take into account the fact that Karcag's center of gravity hospital is responsible for the care of 100,000 people. Dear Secretary of State, Why do they make our 120-year-old railway impossible? Why do you want to deprive the citizens of Karcag and Tiszafüred of the educational and employment opportunities provided by the railway? How can you be flexible and competitive if you tie them to a clot and restore community opportunities? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-08-179	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-08-180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman! Ladies and gentlemen, Accusing the government of being anti-rural, I think it would be surprisingly steep, but you do. Of course, there are measures that are more popular in a small town, in a larger settlement or in the capital and vice versa. Today, what we are living has brought us new challenges, and they have made a significant difference in both health care and employment, but also in our transport habits. [[17.20]] It is not that this line would cease, and it was precisely the former governments, the non-right-wing governments, who preferred to operate on it. Our decision is that if you have studied this in order to assess it in this health emergency, we will consider the effective forms of cost use that will enable road transport, including individual transport, in addition to rail transport. Believe that life is much more complicated than having a meaningful debate about it in one or two minutes, but there are workers who, in this situation, undertake to travel to their own workplaces at a higher cost, but do not use community transport, and in this, they do find partnerships from employers, and indeed, employment classes can provide transport support to all workers to whom we can help. Thus, the issue is complex and the train transport in that section does not cease. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-181	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-182	You see, Mr Secretary, the text I have just read is not my text, it is Sándor Fazekas's from 2009, who told the left-wing government the same thing. You're doing the same thing you've been doing for the last ten years at the end of the last eight years. The socialist governments have done it, but what you do differently is that you will put this line away in an epidemiological agenda. The fact remains, they want to put 120 years of rail traffic in the corner, throw it away. What I would like to say to you, Mr Secretary of State, is that, at the moment just now, you have been constantly exemplary in saying that the left, like the left, has made such decisions. You make the same decisions, you explain the same, you want to end these sidelines in the same way. One flight a day that leaves at 6:00 a.m. is nothing. It is still important for you to be on your own money, and you are not interested in the interests of the rural people. But the question is, have you ever consulted anyone, a local government, a small regional association, or, as governments did before, do they make this decision above their heads? It's a shame, it's a shame they're trying to stop this line. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-08-183	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-08-184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman! I can only confirm that rail transport will not cease at this stage. You are a well-prepared politician, you know that the local governments, either on the Volán, but especially on the Volán, have ongoing discussions on the timetable, so also on this particular section of the line. I don't know which mayor you're referring to, and I can't answer that, but I would like to point out once again that transport will not cease in this section. Please do not compare this with the planned actions of left-wing governments. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-185	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, representative of KDNP, notary of the National Assembly, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, How is summer camping going this year in the Erzsébet Camps? It's an address. Dear Parliament, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[On Dr. István Simicskó's signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-08-186	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-KDNP government has also established a very, very beautiful system with many years of tradition in the area of social care, when it launched the Erzsébet camps. It seems that thanks to the successful control of the coronal virus epidemic, the Erzsébet camps will be held again this year. Obviously, the form of this, the security rules will all be worth reviewing. I think it is exemplary that the Hungarian Government is implementing such a successful programme. Last year some 130,000 children participated in the Erzsébet camps, since 2012, and since the departure, about half a million children have participated in these camps to the great satisfaction of children. I think I can safely say as a father of three, also quoting Sándor Márai, that the child is the greatest miracle, the only meaning of our lives. So such camps, especially on a social basis, also bring together the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, Hungarian children and young people, and there are those who see Lake Balaton for the first time, and obviously the children of the motherland can spend their vacation here intelligently and usefully. My question would concern the gradual lifting of the restrictions caused by the coronal virus epidemic, since we have been informed that there will be no sleep camps this year, but that the camps will be organised in a different way. In view of the fact that we are talking about our children, it is important to know what changes will be expected so that after this extraordinary spring we can look forward to a calmer summer. I respectfully ask Mr. Secretary of State how summer camping is at the bottom of the Erzsébet Camps. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-187	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-08-188	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the case of the Erzsébet programme, too, we can talk about a government programme in which there has not been much opposition support in recent years, and in the recent legislative amendment, MSZP, DK, Dialogue and opposition parties have not supported the fact that we can ensure that the Erzsébet camping is as stable as possible, especially for young people in need of social protection. In their time zero children were camped in the Erzsébet program, and this year we strive to reach at least 100,000 students in daycare camps. This is necessary, because obviously, after the epidemic is closed, students want to meet their contemporaries even more, it is even more important for them to participate in other programs, to be able to move out, and it is important for parents to be able to deal with other things in more free time after daily digital preparation with students than before. This is why the government spends billions of forints each year to help Hungarian families. The Erzsébet programme also received a unique European family award at European level. Of course, in some different circumstances, there will be day-care camps in groups of up to 20, but it is also important that these camps represent four meals a day with a symbolic daily fee of 100 HUF. This means eight to five programs in the morning: sports, healthy lifestyles, environmental awareness, tradition, crafts, self-knowledge and community building, so it is not only child care, it is also a study and education that enables children to come home richer than parents did in the morning. In addition, the community spirit is clearly able to strengthen in the students as well. Different outside programs are also important, and as I said, there are different new rules, so this camp begins with information about the virus, so that we pay more attention to the prevention of infection. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-189	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-190	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I myself have been to the Erzsébet camps several times in recent years, seeing the children's intelligent and useful recreation, it was a great experience for me too. I believe that such camps offer an important opportunity to build a community. They're basically going to be daycare camps this summer, as I understand it, given the coronal virus epidemic, with due caution. I think there are a lot of meaningful and valuable programs for children to develop, and one of the opportunities and areas for education is camping; it is not only in school benches that this education can be conducted, where appropriate, not only in the virtual world, but also in the development of digital competences. As Pestalozzi, the father of education, put it, education is love and example. Camps are excellent and suitable for meeting exemplary teachers and practitioners of various professions from whom our children will learn much. Thank you very much for your reply once again. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-08-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-08-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you to all teachers who have been participating in the Erzsébet program for years, and you are bringing student groups into it your experience and your intellectual creativity to make students really enjoy the one week they spend together. As far as the future is concerned, this is often attacked by the opposition, but I think it is a very important government development that both in Zánkán and Fonyódliget constantly renew the camps, no matter how much the left attacks this year. Therefore, we can double the capacity in which these programs can be implemented, so in the same time twice as many students can go to Erzsébet camps. In addition, Zalaszabaron, Ivo, also has camps, healing Erzsébet camps, which are specifically organized for children who require extra attention, extra care because of their illness or disability, so that they do not miss out on Elizabeth camps. The camping site across the Ivan border and the forest is also suitable for Hungarians across the border and Hungarian students living in the mutilated part of Trianon can camp together during the summer holiday. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17 .30]]
u2020-06-08-193	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-08-194	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Miklós Kásler announced this weekend that, in the field of health care, it is true not for everyone, but yet the 500 thousand forints of recognition will be allocated. At the same time, Minister, he said: "The physiotherapists and the elderly workers and the home helpers have been left out because their employer is also a maintainer of the competent church, entrepreneur, association or local government, so unfortunately they do not belong to the circle that specifically covers the health workers."If we look at the statistics, then, fellow Members, we are talking about the following: there are about 35 thousand people who are now falling out of this system, and they will not receive any financial recognition. As I mentioned, looking at the statistics, it turns out that in residential nursing homes there is a state-owned institution, with a very, very large number of beneficiaries, there are almost as many beneficiaries in state-owned residential nursing homes as in municipally reserved nursing homes. So I would like to point out that we are talking about a thousand scale here. It is undisputed that the majority of the institutions of the church are here, but we know that in recent years the government has also encouraged local governments to hand over the institution's maintenance to ecclesiastical organizations. On the other hand, if you look at the institutions that provide permanent housing, please hold on, fellow Members. , in the institutions maintained by the state there are about 28 thousand beneficiaries in these institutions, and over 7,000 workers. That is why I am asking Mr State Secretary, who has received financial recognition for the workers in the social sector, in the same way as those in the health care sector. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-195	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-08-196	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Not only now, but in recent years, we have also sought to increase wages noticeably in the social sphere. We also had to do so because, during your governance, it was reduced when a month's wage was taken from those working in the social sphere, so they did not raise, but took away a month's salary from all those working in the social sphere. This year, too, there is a 14 percent increase in wages, and if you compare the current wages with the 2010 wages, you will see a 115 percent increase in average social wages, honourable Member. This is the amount of additional resources we have provided to workers in the sector with sectoral wage supplements, wage allowances, various forms. At the same time, another video was released on the Internet this weekend, honourable Member, and you note this, but today you have been exposed to false claims. You and your reporter claim that a person working as a full-time paramedic is being called, while the ambulance service has made it clear that this person does not work in the ambulance service, even though it is said in the video that he has been a paramedic for 43 years. In fact, it turned out that this person was not included in the register of the Health Care Professionals' Chamber. So it turns out that with a man like that, you made it seem like someone who works as an ambulance officer in health care would nurse patients in public health every day, and he's talking in this video, but it turns out that their first sentences weren't real either. You have made a video, honourable Member, where you have adapted the facts to your political needs and not adapted what you say in this video to the facts. The least you can do is apologize for that because all Hungarian people have been deceived, a video that you knew was not real. And they have done nothing more than discredit themselves, honourable Member, and discredit themselves than have caused alarm in humans about a false news report, and have destroyed confidence in health care, where tens of thousands of people have worked hard during the coronal virus epidemic. Apologize immediately and admit that you lied. [[Dr. Sigismund Brown Paul applauds.]]
u2020-06-08-197	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-198	Mr. Secretary. He didn't tell me about that. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: Apologize!]] why they do not receive financial recognition for those working in the social sector. I asked him if he had any skills. I believe that there is a minister, because there are a lot of social institutions with state reservations, while he claimed that these institutions are institutions with municipal, religious and civil organisation, and that he has no influence on what kind of financial recognition they can receive. It does have influence, it does have decision competence, and, as I mentioned, for example, long-term institutions have 28,000 people and over 7,000 people working there. Besides, I did not wish to discuss this subject here, which you have referred to, and this lady has never claimed to have worked at the National Rescue Service, so it is a state institution. He never claimed it! Thank you very much. I'm waiting for the rejoinder.
u2020-06-08-199	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-08-200	Thank you very much. At the beginning of the video, it's said twice in the first minute that you're a full-time paramedic and you're outside the National Rescue Service headquarters. Why would you go to the National Rescue Service if you're here in Parliament saying you don't work for the National Rescue Service? Why did you choose that location? You're claiming you don't work at the ambulance service. If someone doesn't work at the ambulance service, why do they make videos outside the emergency room? Can you explain that, Your Honour? He can't explain it. That's why I should have apologized. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Sigismund Brown Paul applauds.]]
u2020-06-08-201	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Why are they refusing to help the most defenceless? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-08-202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. The economic downturn caused by the epidemic is being mitigated by generous government budgetary measures in all countries around the world. In addition to businesses, governments primarily support the poor and low-income, partly for humane reasons and partly for sound economic thinking, as they would probably not accumulate the state aid they received, but would be forced to spend it, to appear as consumers in the internal market, and thus create demand for a halting machinery for the economy. You, on the other hand, have left them, the most defenseless, and will leave them, according to the budget submitted next year, and will leave them next year. I'll give you a list. They do not help losers of their jobs, because in the case of Hungary we are talking about Europe's busiest job search support and benefits, neither its duration nor its amount has been increased here in terms of economic crisis, nor will it be done next year in accordance with the Finance Act. In 2010, a minimum wage was paid for public work for the unemployed, with only half of it being paid this year, and the ratio will continue to decline next year. The increase in pensions will not reach inflation this year or next year, and the pensioner will obviously not be able to buy food from the next week's extra pension by February. Unconditional help to raise children, which we call family allowances, has been unchanged for ten years, has not been raised for ten years, nor is it planned to be raised next year, Mr. Secretary of State. Moreover, no help was given to those who had to stay home with the child without paying because of the closure of nursery schools, nursery schools, and nursery schools. Finally, the situation of the disabled will not be settled by the government, nor by the government this year, nor by the budget for next year. So I ask why they refuse to help them. Thank you very much for your reply.
u2020-06-08-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-08-204	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You've been awkwardly avoiding the numbers, let me help you out, and with that, I'm gonna nuance you a little bit, or I'm gonna say I'm gonna disprove what you said. You said that elderly people in a difficult financial situation should be helped. You referred to the Budget Act to read that there wasn't enough help. How much was the amount spent on retirement benefits in your last budget? How big, Your Honour? If you look at this amount and see how many billion forints it is now in the budget for next year, you will see that there is a 42 percent increase between the budget you have presented and the current budget. [[17.40]] If you look at the amount in your budget for social and welfare institutional public services and what it is now, you will see that this amount is 139 percent higher. So you're saying that this government is spending less on people in need than you would consider fair. But this government plans to spend more than twice as much in next year's budget, 239 percent of your last budget for social purposes. Where was your social sensitivity when you took the 13th month's pension, the 15th increase in wages, the last year of the child, the withdrawal of the family allowance, the attempt to tax pensions, the taking of a month's wages for nurses and workers? Where was this social sensitivity that you were talking about, honourable Member? The only thing you are disproved by is the sequence of figures, the number of budget figures, in which the increase has been greater since your administration in the social arena than your total expenditure has been in the last budget law you presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-08-205	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-206	You must have missed what I said. I said that in view of the crisis, these groups will not receive any extra help. It's no coincidence that he's trying to compare ten years ago or eleven years ago to what he's doing now, because if he compared it to last year, these numbers wouldn't come out so nicely. That's the problem. With regard to the pension, he says that 40 percent said 42 percent in terms of retirement, 42 percent in ten years! In ten years, when the economy has, by the way, increased GDP by around 5 per cent over a substantial period of the last ten years. If we add who all and other social groups in the country have received subsidies, these social groups have received nothing compared to this, honourable Secretary of State. Again, when would you like to help these groups? Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-207	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-08-208	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It was worth it to come to Parliament today: DK acknowledged the results of the government's economic policy. This hasn't happened in the last ten years. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] To recognise from the ranks of the Democratic Coalition that Europe's highest economic growth has been achieved by the government, the Orbán government, which you have criticized the most. Thank you very much for your appreciation. It took a long time to wait, but I have to say, it was worth it. Therefore, I will comply with the other call. He told me not to compare these numbers ten years ago, but in the one-year term! Honourable Congressman, Next year, we will spend 326 billion HUF more on pension benefits than this year. And we will spend 41 billion forints more on social support than we did this year. So, both are noticeable, and there's a high rise. We can also help those who are in more difficult social conditions because of the crisis. Remember, these numbers were marked with negative omens. Just in case, these are all plus-signal numbers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-08-209	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:43. We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has asked for an interpellation and a question, this item will not be discussed. We are now continuing our work by continuing a joint debate on a political declaration. I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber in accordance with the order issued, who do not wish to take part in this agenda. Dear Parliament, Continue and conclude a consolidated debate on the political declaration on the protection of national identity. László Kövér, Fidesz; Zsolt Semjén, KDNP; Árpád János Potápi, Fidesz; Károly Pánczél, Fidesz; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Máté Kocsis, Fidesz; Barna Pál Zsigmond, Fidesz; Zsolt Németh, Fidesz, MEPs' proposal P-10760. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the combined debate, the initial speech was delivered by the author. It will now be possible to speak to the representative of the Government, the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, the political groups and the independent Members. Dear Parliament, [[For signal:]] Mr János Potápi, State Secretary, points out that he wishes to speak at the end of the debate. [[Árpád János Potápi: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you will have a ten-minute timeframe. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of Parliament, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Madam Comrade, here you go.
u2020-06-08-210	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed it at its meeting on 3 June 2020 - P-10760 on the protection of national identity. Political Declaration No 1. The summary report of the committee is set out in Rule 82 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 30 votes in favour. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a political declaration, nor did the Committee intend to amend it. Dear Parliament, At the invitation of the representative political body of the elected representatives of the 12 million Hungarians living in the states of the region, the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin made a political declaration on the 100th anniversary of the conclusion of the First World War and the 30th anniversary of the democratic system changes in Eastern Central Europe. A hundred years ago, on June 4, 1920, the great powers in Versailles signed the peace dictatorship closing World War I. The terms of the contract were defined without the participation of the Hungarians at the peace conference in Paris in 1919-20, at which the winners decided on a new order for Europe. Hungary lost more than two thirds of its territory and more than half of its population as a result of the decision. The Trianon decision is a national tragedy, the effects and consequences of which still live in our daily lives. This economic and spiritual burden has particularly affected the torn parts of the nation. Historical experience shows respect for man's dignity. Without respect, freedom is lost, our communities, family and nation become defenseless. The political statement points out that Article XX should be amended accordingly. Despite centuries of ordeal, foreign Hungarians preserved their mother tongue, preserved their culture and national identity rooted in their homeland through painful losses, sacrifices and great achievements. We are proud to say that today Hungarians are stronger than ever in the last hundred years. National communities have survived the repeated repression and have put national policy on a new footing. The most important element of survival is the commitment of national identity. If there is anything that is a fundamental human right, it is the taking up and living of national identity. The Declaration calls on the parliaments of the Eastern Central European and the Carpathian Basin states to make the right to national identity a constitutional fundamental right and to guarantee it in practice for all indigenous national communities living in the territory of the States. The National Confession of the Fundamental Law of Hungary and the Chapter on Freedom and Responsibility XXIX. Article 2 (1) states:. The nationalities living in Hungary are state-creating factors. Any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Please note that the submitted P/10760. Please support political statements No 8 and 12 of the Political Declaration, in particular. Point 12 calls on the institutions of the European Union and of the European Council to support the aspirations of the parliaments of the European States which are set out in Annex XXI to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the 18th century, they want to make the right to national identity part of universal human rights. [[17.50]] I close my speech with the thoughts of András Bütő. In addition to Hungary, Europe does not have a single state that borders around itself. .. in the House.. Therefore, the declaration raises the floor for the sake of the Hungarians. God bless the Hungarian! Thank you.
u2020-06-08-211	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Hiller wishes to speak during today's joint debate. In the event of the opposition of the Members of the Vice-President, the Parliament shall not be able to hold the sitting until the Parliament has agreed to do so in the course of the further hearing of the independent motion. I would therefore like to ask the Honourable Parliament, which will allow Mr Vice-President to lead the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10-10 minutes, and the independent representatives have 2 minutes in total. In the meantime, two-minute comments should be included in the duration. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Károly Panczél, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-08-212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Lady Major! Mr. Secretary. It's a torn country, a torn nation, a political quarantine, an economic isolation, a struggle for defence, a loneliness in culture, and a lack of companionship in spiritual life, so we've started our last hundred years. In the 100th year of the Trianon peace dictatorship, we have every reason to mourn, to mourn. Thank you for the worthy commemoration of the Hungarians here in the motherland, in the Carpathian Basin, in the western diaspora, thanks to the Transcarpathian Scouts for their call to set fire to the guard fires, thanks to the Highlanders for their call to ring the bells for a hundred seconds. It was a worthy memorial. For decades, Trianon's trauma and grief have been unprocessed, and community relief has not been possible. Dear Parliament, We can really say no, no, never. But instead of gender, you have to look for yes, yes, yes, solutions, answers to Trianon. In recent years, there have been a number of such responses: a cross-border unification of the nation. Reply to Trianon in Article D of the Fundamental Law, taking responsibility for Hungarians across the border. Reply to Trianon for dual citizenship, the nation's public union. Reply to Trianon as a witness to national cohesion, the day of national cohesion. Reply to Trianon is the year of national solidarity, which is not a year of mourning, but a day of commemoration and 365 days of national cohesion. Reply to Trianon is the kindergarten building programme in the Carpathian Basin, which we can rightly say has not been developed in this way since Klebelsberg. And the answer to Trianon is the economic recovery grants that help to stay in the homeland, and this political declaration to Trianon is also a response to the protection of national identity: it seeks solutions and seeks allies. I think it is important that we have found a Hungarian phrase next to the word. identity: the national identity and its protection. What does that definition mean? Inheriting and passing on the mother tongue and culture, as well as the homeliness of the homeland, so that all Hungarians and all other nations can enjoy themselves in their homeland, there must be growth, prosperity and prosperity. This is not excluded because it recognises the right to national identity for indigenous citizens of all national states and their communities. It recognises the right to national identity of the Romanian in Mures-Men whose grandparents lived in his homeland, recognizes the right of the royal Saxon whose father lived there, and acknowledges the right of the Hungarian of Kalotaszeg whose father's beautiful father lived there. Let this be a fundamental human right. This is where we turn to the European Union, where, by the way, Article 4 of the Treaty of the Union can be adapted, because Article 4 states that it respects the national identity of the Member States and Article 3, which states that the Union respects its cultural and linguistic diversity and ensures the preservation and further enhancement of Europe's cultural heritage. Let us integrate the right to national identity and turn to the United Nations to recognise the right of fundamental human rights to national identity. And let us also appeal to the parliaments of the Carpathian Basin nations to see indigenous national minorities as a factor of state-making. We know that many neighbouring states are talking about united and indivisible nation states today, while they themselves know that this is not the case in reality. We would like Hungarians to not only be good citizens there, but also remain Hungarian. And we're looking for allies again and again in the neighbourhood policy. We are looking for allies because we need to make our neighbours and the peoples of Eastern Central Europe realize that today there are forces that question the existence of all nations, question the importance of the nation, the country and the family. Every nation is in danger. Dear House, There are positive signs. We thank Prime Minister Matovič for his gestures towards the Hungarian people on the occasion of the day of national integration. [[Dr. István Hiller applauds.]] It is important that good Hungarian citizens living in Slovakia also feel at home in their homeland as Hungarians in the future. We have reached a policy that we started by building bridges, gas pipelines, common energy distributors, border crossings, and this will create confidence to talk about sensitive issues as well. Dear House, Pope Francis speaks of a Christian identity, President Macron speaks of a European identity. It is fitting that we want to live as Hungarians in Christian Europe, our homeland. Finally, allow me a quote on patriotism, St. From Pope John Paul:,, Patriotism, as the love of the country, recognizes the right of all other nations to similarly love their country. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2020-06-08-213	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of Parliament, MSZP Group. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-06-08-214	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman and Congressman Lords! I'd like to make two announcements first. The first is that the political declaration on the protection of national identity is voted by our group, and it is accepted, as we supported at committee meetings, both at the committee meeting referred to by the Houses' High Representative and at the previous committee meeting, and we will therefore also support it at the plenary session. The second announcement that I have dealt with the history of the declaration myself, I would not be burdened with this right now, and I will maintain my opinion. However, I suggest, honourable Members, that the last week of this declaration, and I sincerely hope that we should go deeper in the coming period, should not simply remain in our minds to accept an otherwise essential and racial political declaration. [[18.00]] The definition of national identity is also a serious task for science. I suggest that we rely on this on Hungarian and international science. Something that many have described in various ways, yet they always emphasize that it is the feeling that gives back the contents of everything. And I suggest, my dear Parliament, that we start with ourselves. In 199 we and the national spokespersons together train the membership of the National Assembly, the membership of the Hungarian Parliament. And if we look at the factions, the groups sitting next to each other, we can see that, in order, Congressman Brenner is proud to take on his German-speaking poncichter sopron ancestors. The name of Congressman Sebian-Petrovsk shows well, knowing his origins, he can boast of Slovak ancestors. The name of Mrs Schmuck, co-chair and representative of the LMP, shows that she is a real treasure in this argument. Congressman Korózs bears that name as a result of the factions of our faction. The ancestors of Congressman Kocsis-Cake, at least some of his family, are from a further region, Guinea-Bissau. In the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, the leader of the group bears the name of a German-Roman imperial aristocrat family, Congressman Harrach. Congressman Kubatov, from the Fidesz faction, boasts of Bulgarian ancestors. And obviously I can't save it either, because my name, which I'm proud of, shows that my ancestors didn't come from the east to the west to the Carpathian Basin, but they came from the west to the east to the Hungarian citizens of a free royal city. But if we look at our representatives of the European Union, from Congressman Deutsch to Mrs Dobrev, then we can have the same impression as I have just looked at Mrs Damm, whose name will certainly strengthen the argument I want to talk about. Together with these names, we are proud Hungarians and representatives of the Hungarian Parliament. Therefore, I propose that when we talk about meaningful but still dry political statements, we must feel what this nation, the fate and the past of Central Europe, is doing in the present and in the future. But speaking of the past, it would be a big mistake, and I think that this statement is a tragic end if we thought it was about the past. It would be a serious problem if we were to think that it is the peace in Trianon that has been commemorated in the last week that is recording something in itself in the past and remembering it as if we were able to overcome all that is important and important to us. I don't think so, but please accept it from me, the interpretation of the past and the past is not such a thing that if we look at what happened centuries, centuries or a few decades ago, we will also look at what came from it, then we are wise, and we know what the consequences of a current decision for the future are. The interpretation of this is false. But then, honourable Members, what will become of this statement? How does this become content? Only part of the solution is what this declaration contains, to turn to the national assemblies of neighbouring nations, the European Union and the UN. I'm not against it, but let's face it, in itself, that's not gonna be enough. They can accept a statement, which is valid even to different degrees, but that is not the solution we are thinking about in the long term, I am sure. First of all, let us reveal that we have half a millennium of national characters, in the crossfire of various physical and non-physical attacks, so that we can protect everything that is ours, whether it is material or actually ideas; that we tend to take isolation as a blow to us, while isolation is a conscious political action, while remaining isolated is an unfortunate form of passivity, self-destruction. Just as we have seen that in itself there is no ally, no allies, no allies, no allies. Therefore, I have to say that when we think that the identity, identity and interrelationship of nations means that, by respecting one another, accepting, living side by side and by living together, and by truly appreciating these categories, everything that is otherwise a long-term peace and form of organization, I must say, is naive. That's not the way it is in history and politics. At that time, however, the question must be asked whether it is possible to reconcile or even more the sense of identity of nations living together. What I want to ask you is that there is a European identity. Is there a European identity? Or just Italian, Spanish, French, Danish, Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian, and don't get the wrong idea. I sincerely hope that many have been given the opportunity to speak to people of non-European origin. Have you spoken to South Africa? A born Central American? A South East Asian? Did they speak and hear that from the same thought to which he associates, what comes to his mind, how he thinks, what gestures he has? And did you see a Polish talking to a Spanish, a Hungarian talking to a Danish, a Polish talking to a Frenchman? I must say to you, yes, there is a European identity. If this is accepted from me, then the real solution... and please do not stop thinking here by adopting a political statement. Finding a community of Hungarians and Europeans, a community of Hungarian identity and European identity, enriching our country, our nation and Europe itself as proud Hungarians and proud Europeans by accepting this political declaration, I do not think it is the end point, but a proper starting point. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-08-215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Simicskó, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-08-216	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, István Hiller listed names here and explained how and how his family history was formed and how his family became Hungarian, and how he became Vice-President of the Hungarian Parliament. On the other hand, I did not come from the west, but from the east, when I look at my ancestors and ancestors, although there is obviously some Western influence. But we didn't get together to tell everyone your family history. It is certain that we have all truly become Hungarians, and this is a very serious achievement of Hungarian culture, Hungarian identity, identity-consciousness, because it is a huge thing that, as a thousand-year-old state, Hungarians in this country, in the Carpathian Basin, lived in different sizes, apart from the size, and could survive in this European cultural circle. Many, many historical battles and struggles had to be fought. [[18.10]] It is a huge thing in itself that Hungarians have survived, and obviously when this proposal for a resolution was formulated in the minds of the authors, and I have listened with great respect to the speech of Speaker László Kövér, who is very difficult to catch up with on this subject, because he spoke about everything in his speech at this commemorative meeting, but let me try to add a few points myself from the KDNP to this general debate today. We all know that a hundred years ago, as the Italian Prime Minister of Francesco Nitti put it, Hungary was quartered and practically sentenced to death. As we see territorial mutilation and a decrease in the number of souls, this was indeed not far from the truth, the reality, and that is why I say that it is a great miracle that Hungarians have obviously been able to make mistakes many times over the last hundred years, but they have been able to carry out self-examination and we are able to overcome this tragedy that has affected all of us. There wasn't much of a Hungarian family that wouldn't have been affected by the connection of a significant part of the territory, more than two thirds of them, it was definitely a dramatic period for Hungary and Hungary. The Parliamentary resolution proposal before us is clearly not only making gestures, not only declaring certain facts, not only reminding me, but in reality I see it drawing attention to the challenges, the challenges of our time and the future, but also looking forward in this way. The Christian Democratic People's Party therefore strongly supports the adoption of this proposal. In 12 points, the authors summarized the political statement before us, which really starts with a 100-year look back from the past, including the commemoration of Trianon, the reduction of the nation's number of souls and territory. He talks about the neighbours, and it is very important that he stresses the importance of cooperation with neighbouring peoples and countries. It is about national diversity that it is very important that it is not a source of danger but a resource for Europe as a whole. It would increase the preservation of the homeland. I'm always telling you that the homeland is not a substitute for anything, so it's not a XIX. It is a centuries-old concept, but it is an eternal concept; I know that the world is changing, but let us keep the essence, the respect of the homeland, and I think it is important that this is also mentioned. It speaks of the mother tongue, it speaks of culture, it is about recognition of human rights, it calls for recognition of the right to national identity as a fundamental human right. He's talking about indigenous national communities. I think that this Parliamentary resolution proposal is very important, and that is why I recommend it to everyone, and it is a pleasure for me that István Hiller said here that the MSZP faction supports it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have learned throughout my life that every human community should be the smallest or the greatest, so whether it is a family or a nation or even an army, its true strength is given by its spirituality, its faith, and when we talk about whether there is a European identity or not, allow me to mention a few sentences about three of them in view of the shortness of time, and this will not be a vacation, but globalisation, integration and, of course, civilization. Let me start with civilization. There are many different definitions and definitions for civilization, but one thing is certain, by shortcut, that my fellow Member, Mr Panczél, said about this: that civilization is the real civilization for us, or that is the closest thing we have to the one in which we feel the most at home. Let's say there is a significant difference in customs between the community of people living in a northern Italian city and the community of people living in a southern Italian city, even in lifestyle, perhaps even in a certain dialect, but that they are part of a united Italian civilization, that they are the depositaries of a united Italian culture, it is true. We can also say this about people living in Eastern Hungary and people living in Western Hungary: a little different way of life, a little different culture, other customs, other foods, but they are part of the Hungarian culture. And here we are at Europe. All major civilizations were basically created on religious pedestals. If this religious pedestal shatters and disintegrates, then the body of civilization could collapse. Let us not forget, however, that European civilisation is basically built on the Christian culture circle, so strengthening it is also important, and it can indeed connect a federalist Europe, a European Union [[Zoltán Balczó: Confederateist!]] which, in addition to preserving the sovereignty of the nations, must follow the path of cooperation. That is why I also see the issue of integration as important. [[Zoltán Balczó: Not a Federation, but a Confederate!]] Speaking of which... Or confederation [[Zoltán Balczó: Na!]] because the Confederacy means the cooperation of sovereign states, sorry for the speech; we do not want a Federation, but others want to thank Mr Balczó very much for the adjustment. The fact is, therefore, that we can imagine European integration in this way that it is based on the cooperation of independent nations, sovereign states. The most important thing is to have close cooperation in this area, and it is therefore very important to carry out self-examination and this proposal for a decision also seeks to do so, as it is important that we work out our business with Slovaks, Romanians, Serbs, Croatians, Ukrainians and everyone. I think that it is very important that Hungarian foreign policy strives for this in the coming period, because without allies here in this region, but nowhere else in the world, we are not likely to be able to provide adequate and effective responses to the new types of challenges. What's the challenge? This globalisation, which, by the way, means a kind of Homogenisation, a kind of unification effort in which national cultures, national languages, values, traditions can disappear. Count István Széchenyi said that the nation lives only in its traditions, the nation lives as long as its traditions exist and function. It is very important that we value these values and give them to our children. That is why I think it is very important that the political declaration before us is adopted, because it does not only make gestures but also looks to the future. Finally, I would like to say that Article XIX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides: This was also the birthday of the Hungarian nation, and we refer to this with the freedom fight of 48-49. CHAPTER XX We have lived through the wars of the centuries between nations, we have seen, we have almost gone to that, the first and the second world wars, all of us. CHAPTER XXI It can only be a century of cooperation. If further opposition on a national basis remains, it can mean that the winners of globalisation will certainly shape the course of the world. Therefore, for my part, I would like to say in closing that one of the biggest challenges we will be talking about here is the environment, climate change and much more about the impact that globalisation, the movement of multinational capital, the Homogenisation efforts will have on the lives, lifestyle, culture, language and traditions of local communities. In this we really must look at each other as allies, because the culture, linguistic geniuses, the different values and traditions of the peoples living here are all enriching the Carpathian Basin, and I am pleased that 13 nationalities are represented at Parliament's meetings; it is important that we continue to pay attention to them, appreciate them, and through this they themselves increase Hungarian culture and Hungary's values. My fellow Member, Károly Panczél, pointed out that if a community, a nation, can transcend tragedies, it will make him more mature and wiser, and I see that by declaring 4 June a day of national solidarity, and by giving citizenship to Hungarians across the border, we have also taken very serious steps towards the survival of Hungarian culture, the future of the Hungarian nation. I would therefore ask everyone here, within the walls of this House, to support the adoption of the political declaration before us. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-08-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, will be speaking. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-218	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to this debate and assuming that it will continue in this field, I think that this is certainly worthy of the year of national cohesion, and worthy of the commemoration last week, by the way. There were various debates about how this political statement came before the Parliament. [[Zoltán Balczó: Yes!]] there are such disputes, and there are even ways in which they could be involved as a national or in any way. I also agreed with several of my fellow Members that it was right that last week's meeting, last week's commemoration, was exempted from the issue of political policy. [[18.20]] I think that this commemoration was worthy, and I was pleased that the speech by the Speaker and President of the Republic was worthy of the 100-year commemoration, was worthy of the event, and avoided any form of actual political expression that existed in any case in connection with the very sharp political opposition currently in place, and it can be said that there is such a thing, but it is very important that this was avoided. The political statement itself, the text of which, the political initiative of which, the delegates of the DCF had the opportunity to comment on it and to join it. On behalf of our faction, we have also expressed our agreement with three delegates. I believe that we have had the opportunity to participate in this way. To tell you the truth, I would have liked that if this kind of association, the joint stand, could have been strengthened so much, it could have been confirmed that factions could have joined as a national, whether a representative or not, this would have been gestureal. But I think that, overall, it is important that we have this proposal before us, and it is also important that we agree on it. I very much hope, by the way, that it is not complete, but there will also be a very broad consensus during the vote. I can say, of course, that as members of the KMKF, we have expressed our support for the declaration, and I voted in favour of the Legislative Committee, and, of course, the LMP faction will vote in favour of this proposal here before the Parliament. I think, and it is also nice to see that we have succeeded on some issues, not much, but on some issues we have managed to overcome political differences, and this is one of them, and this political statement is also here in the year of national cohesion. There was already a very positive example of this here in February, when we had the parliamentary proposal for a resolution embracing the European citizens' initiative of the Szekler National Council. I put him in front of the Parliament myself. It was then that I asked all the parties to join, and I was glad that he finally joined as the author of five factions, and it was with 158 unanimous votes in favour that the declaration was accepted. I think we heard a very uplifting debate at the time, there was a long debate in the evening, but I was very pleased that the representatives on the other side of the political arena really listened to each other and were able to express this kind of national union this important year, here 100 years after the outrageous Trianon dictatorship. I think that this is the initiative of the Szekler National Council this year, perhaps the most worthy form of commemoration, the most worthy opportunity. It is quite clear that Trianon is part of our past, fundamentally defining our present, defining our future. Many people say that we should look to the future, but we should not just look to the future, because we still have a job to do. So we remember the consequences of this, we live it, we take it with us, it will always be with us, it will always be a part of our conscience, and it will always hurt us this Trianon dictatorship. We'll never be able to fully process it. But perhaps the most important thing now, and it is still 100 years after the events that we need to act, and we still have a job to do. Our most important task is to ensure that we help to stay in the entire Carpathian Basin, to help the Hungarians stay in the homeland. This is a huge challenge, and this may be the biggest challenge for all of us in the entire Carpathian Basin today. In the disconnected parts of the country, in the mother country too, it is a very serious challenge to remain in the homeland, and we face many problems. I think that we can remember the right thing, the most worthy, if we are proud of the Hungarian communities living in the disconnected area, that after 100 years they have shown that they want to and can remain Hungarian in the midst of hardships, historical cataclysms and ordeals that we know precisely based on our historical knowledge, by thanking them, we are proud of it. I was very pleased that it was possible to do so together with a round of applause here in the House of Parliament. It is very important that we take action to help it in the future. Unfortunately, we can see that in some countries certain political actors, political forces, politicians use their opportunity and mandate to try to capitalize on political capital by inciting, attacking the Hungarians or other minorities living there. This is totally unacceptable. We must act together not only at the level of the mother country, but also at international forums, and with all the means at our disposal to complete this outrage. We see that Hungarian regions have a disadvantage in terms of development policy. Obviously, these issues are strongly linked to the survival of the homeland and the preservation of culture. That is why we must make sure that Hungarian regions do not suffer such disadvantages. This is why the initiative of the Szekler National Council is very exemplary and very important, this goes far beyond the fact that Szeklerland will have autonomy, can and should have autonomy, obviously this is a very important initiative for our nation, but this is a pan-European message, a pan-European message that says that it requires Europe to recognise, accept the rights of national minorities, accept the presence of national minorities and its colorful culture as part of European culture and a very important value, and combat the challenges and problems that we are now facing. This initiative was also very important because, perhaps for the first time, the European Union has formally been forced, after many years of litigation, to recognise that there is a national region, so we can say that the definition has been included in the European legal order, and it has been recognised in itself that they have been forced to let this initiative go, that this problem, this challenge is existing, and this is a real, serious challenge. After a very uplifting debate in February, the Parliament supported it with a unanimous vote, and then the real miracle came when a little attention was perhaps focused on this great initiative. In particular, there are a very exemplary number of public figures, athletes, artists, musicians and party positions in this business, many politicians have expressed that this is the case of all of us, this is the case of Hungarians, this is a national issue, it cannot be the subject of party political battles, and a genuine national cooperation has been shown here in the last weeks. That was quite wonderful to see. By the way, I congratulate those who organized it, this has been carried forward, this campaign has been oiled, that so many people have been able to express the message of national union in all aspects, logically and emotionally, what it means to be Hungarian, and how we can, how we can stand next to a case. It was particularly good to see that the initiative was able to reach 1.2 million signatures in total in a slightly delayed run, and that, in fact, Hungarian national cooperation was an example for Europe as a whole. We know that there have been problems, deadlines, and other, but far and away, this is the most successful of the 17 European citizens' initiatives running now, I understand. And in the last moments, the servers stopped because such participation and interest had not yet been experienced by the servers of the European Commission. So we were able to show that Hungarian national cooperation is indeed exemplary, a huge force in Europe, and as Europe practically failed us 100 years ago and betrayed us, we were able to demonstrate the power of Hungarian national cooperation after 100 years. It is very important that this initiative continues. We know that it is a huge success in itself that 1.2 million signatures have come together, but in order to be formally legally valid, these quotas must be guaranteed in a total of seven countries. We hear the good news from the direction of Brussels so that this initiative can be extended. This is where Europe, many of Europe's countries, will have the opportunity to recognise this issue, to recognise that 100 years ago a shameful decision has been made here, and to recognise that today, too, there are huge challenges that cry out after a joint action, because if Europe does not accept that not only Hungarian, but also everywhere minority nationalities have the right to study in their mother tongue, to preserve their own identity, then Europe refuses itself, then Europe will face itself, then Europe will practically tear apart the declarations and declarations on which the fundamental foundation of European integration is built. So these are very important European values, it is particularly important for us as Hungarians to be able to enforce them this year. That is why it is very, very important that this case be successfully completed this year, and by showing by a concrete action the national solidarity that goes far beyond politics, let us not only remember, not only a positive attitude, a positive attitude, but also action to ensure that after 100 years the Hungarian national parts, which preserve their identity and culture, Hungarian people can preserve their culture, their identity and their language, and in this way we can express 100 years after the Trianon shame that Hungarian national cohesion is very strong, and the Hungarian nation is one and unbreakable. Thank you.
u2020-06-08-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-220	Thank you for the floor. On the 100th anniversary of the Trianon decision, the Parliament prepared not only the commemorative meeting on 4 June, but the political declaration we are discussing here, which concerns the protection of national identity. [[18.30]] Collaboration with our fellow nations outside our borders is indicated by the adoption of the text of the declaration by the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin, i.e. this body can be considered to be submitted. The KMKF is the body of elected representatives of 12 million Hungarians living in the states of the region. With the exception of the Democratic Coalition, the Hungarian parliamentary parties are all members and have also signed this declaration. The document recalls historical facts, changes and change under the age of 100, analyses the current situation and future activities. It calls on the parliaments of the Eastern Central European state-making nations to jointly initiate the recognition of the right to national identity as a fundamental human right at the United Nations and European international organisations. In Jobbik's opinion, the Hungarian Parliament must make use of this call even if the common denominator cannot be established with those parliaments. The declaration includes the expectation that the right to national identity should be raised as a constitutional fundamental right for indigenous national communities and that they should be granted the status of state-makers. What we missed from the statement is autonomy, self-determination. At the same time, we did not make any amendments, bearing in mind that representatives of Hungarian communities across the border saw this as good for various reasons and did not require presentation in the text. The representatives of Jobbik will, of course, vote in favour of the adoption of this declaration. If this speech, the debate, had been held on 4 June, it would have ended here, and I would not have been a spoiler. Today, however, I must express the profound disappointment caused by the exclusion of the ruling parties. The presentation and parliamentary representation of the jointly agreed declaration of the KMKF were expropriated by the governing parties, and the six applicants were the only ones included. There was a legitimate demand from opposition parties represented in the KMKF to be presenters, thus stressing national cohesion. At the meeting of the Technical Committee, we raised the need for, and the request for, a positive response was not received. Jobbik would also have considered it acceptable if there were two presenters: László Kövér, the president of the KMKF, and Károly Panczél, the chairman of the National Assembly Committee. That would have been right, too. When the vice-president of the Committee for National Inclusion expressed criticism in a press statement, the Fidesz response came immediately, the essence and message of which was: whoever in any way had anything to do with it, has or is according to you will be to Ferenc Gyurcsány, the negative campaign of the 2004 referendum, in the final, forever uncredited national affairs. Well, indeed. The harsh campaign conducted by the MSZP, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, cannot be undone, the past cannot be abolished; it was said in another debate from KDNP representatives that the past cannot be abolished. But it's also a question of why this campaign was effective. Was there any other political force responsible for the fact that in the 15th year of the regime change, a significant part of the population did not accept foreign Hungarians to their national brothers? Fidesz shows its former negative attitude towards Hungarians across the border on the 70th anniversary of their parliamentary withdrawal from Trianon, and János Áder's speech of 28 September 1993 explaining why they do not support the right to vote across the border: because on the most important internal policy issues, people who do not live in Hungary, who are not taxpayers of the country; many have no ties to the country anymore; because it is much more difficult to control the cleanliness of elections. All of this I have quoted only to say that the past cannot indeed be abolished, but it is more important that the past can be overcome and genuinely taken a different view. If that were not the case, how could we, Jobbikos, have accepted the speech of János Áder on June 4, as we did? I saw a shocking example of exclusion two days before the memorial sitting here in Parliament in a State Secretary's speech. The Secretary of State drew attention to the fact that on the laptop of the right-wing representatives there is an inscription. [[He's showing it to me.]] And he accused us of not sharing with the people there, so let's get these stickers off. He added: "But don't worry, because the webshop of Ferenc Gyurcsány's party opened a few days ago, from there you can order all kinds of left-wing merchandise; if you want stickers, you can shop there. And he did all this in the midst of the laughter and applause of his fellow partymen. Can you dig a deeper ditch here? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I've had many attacks 25 years ago, but I didn't have to make that cynical speech, especially in a matter of my heart. From 1981 we started to go to Transylvania regularly because an elderly Szekler man said to come as often as possible, because the gate, which is often opened, is hard to close for good. As a politician, I had the opportunity to do so several times for foreign Hungarians. As a representative of the MIÉP in the 1998-2002 cycle, I was a representative and curator of the Illyés Public Foundation. I've had an insight into cross-border cases and contact with organisations and people in relation to the evaluation of the applications. In 2009, I fought in the EP to withdraw the Slovak language law. On 14 May 2010, here, two minutes after the inaugural session, I submitted my motion to declare the Trianon decision a national memorial day. On 17 May, I tabled an amendment to the amendment of the Constitution, which was for the 200-person Parliament, and, seeing, hoping to grant citizenship, I wished to have a special quota approved for the direct representation of Hungarians across the border in the Hungarian Parliament. From 2014 we fought side by side with László Tőkés in the European Parliament. And I'm not a white raven in Jobbik, and others can list the evidence of their commitment. Now what I need to hear is that I'm not worthy to put this sticker on my laptop. [[He's showing it to me.]] And remove it. Ladies and gentlemen, Yeah, that's what the National Cooperation System looks like on Trianon's 100th anniversary. I would like to live in a time when Hungary will have a political system in which those on government will look for the common denominator, not the difference in the most important issues of national strategy, and not for those who are allowed to use all means to maintain their power. Thank you very much. My speech consisted of two parts: a June 4th, which I said frankly, and unfortunately this forced speech, from June 8th. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-08-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now the first independent Member to apply has the opportunity to speak. I would like to inform you that there is a total time frame of 2 minutes for independent Members. Congressman, you have the floor. I give the floor to Congressman Székely.
u2020-06-08-222	Yeah. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I deeply disagree with the interpretation of Trianon on the right, and I am not satisfied with what happened last week, but it was good to hear from the government that the solution to the problem is not against the neighbouring countries, but with them. I think it's positive in any way. That this case could be moved forward with a statement, I don't know. However, there is a case that must be resolved, I think, and this is the right to vote for Hungarians from abroad. [[18.40]] At the moment, Hungarians from abroad can vote for one of the party lists in the parliamentary elections, whichever is registered. I think that this is not good for them, nor for Hungarians from abroad, nor for Hungarians living in Hungary, and creates a feud between Hungarian and Hungarian. That's definitely not good. Therefore, the Yes Solidarity Movement proposes that there should be a symbolic 200th parliamentary representative in the Hungarian Parliament, who, although he does not have a permanent Hungarian address, is a Hungarian citizen and is voted for by the Hungarians from abroad. This 200th Member of Parliament, although he would not have the right to vote, could comment and represent the foreign Hungarians with a face and a name in the Hungarian Parliament, could act for them. We think that this solution would lead the matter forward to the end of this situation, which creates a feud between Hungarians and Hungarians. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak.
u2020-06-08-223	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Potápi, State Secretary, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you have a timeframe of 10 minutes. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-224	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I am pleased that at this stage of the debate, we are almost at the end of the debate, indeed, in a way that was worthy and appropriate for the year of national cohesion. Last year, the Hungarian Parliament decided on the year of national cohesion. The commemorative events of this year were to be realized within this framework. What we all know, however, is that events and changes in the world, especially with regard to the epidemic situation, did not allow for commemorations in the way we could have hoped for last year or even in March. Therefore, we should also seriously consider pushing the year of national cohesion to 2021, as many local governments, settlements across borders, parts of the nation, civil society organisations and historical churches have moved the commemorations for the rest of the year. On the other hand, a number of works have been made or made, laid down foundation stones, or monuments have been erected that have not yet been completed because of the epidemic, they have not been able to begin building them. I am pleased that the historical past and the foundations of our identities have been discussed and referred to what our identity is and what constitutes for us Members of Parliament, us Hungarians. Obviously the most important thing for us and for those sitting here is that we are Hungarians, we are Central Europeans, we are also Europeans and we are Christians, because European civilisation is based on Greek, Roman, Jewish and Christian culture, which, if we forget, is the European concept, although it does not cease, but it will mean something else altogether, as it becomes a geographical concept and does not mean a cultural concept. We also know that Trianon means something different to us Hungarians, and it means something different to the surrounding peoples, nations, to the successor states. What is a day of mourning for us means the birthday of their country, or it means the enlargement of their country, the unification of their parts of their nation. When we remember Trianon, we also need to know that, and if we expect them to accept our interpretation, the day of national solidarity, the day of mourning, then we also need to know and accept that this means this to them. In the last century, this day and a different attitude have led to conflicts between these countries and these peoples. CHAPTER XXI The 20th century, on the other hand, has challenges that can only bring us together, and we can only rely on unity. Let's not forget that it is already XX. In the first century, there were events, whether in the second world war or in the new world order after the Second World War, that we Hungarians were punished for it, or if we put it vice versa, Slovaks, Czechs, Poles, Romanians, and we could continue to list the Central European peoples, they were rewarded for what we were punished for. The next century will be like this if we're not careful. We can only respond to historical challenges through joint cooperation and joint effort. There has been great progress over the past week, which has had an echo, but it may not have been as big here in Hungary or anywhere else as it could have been, since something has started between Slovakia and Hungary through national reconciliation. Let me quote Slovak Prime Minister Matovič, who received a hundred Hungarian intellectuals, decisive politicians and public figures in Bratislava on Tuesday 2 June. The past was not written by us, but the future is in our hands, with this sentence and with its speech there, it practically followed the Hungarians in the Highlands, Slovakia, and in addition to following it, and we could sense from its speech that the Hungarians, for their part, could accept the Hungarians as a factor of state-making in Slovakia, which is one of the cornerstones of the declaration. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's speech on 7th in Tátaljaújhely, which we Hungarian politicians have formulated several times over the last century and in the last ten years, is perhaps also a response. We see in our neighbors what separates us, but also what connects us. He who looks at the world in Hungarian sees with the eyes of St. Stephen. István Szent can see with the eyes of the XXI. This means that we want to make the Carpathian Basin great with the people living with us and make Central Europe great, because this is our calling, XXI. Hungarians of the century. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. CHAPTER XX 1st century, the long XX. The century, which once began with Trianon or began with peace agreements and ended today, was a losing century for the Hungarians and the Central European peoples, we can safely say. We Hungarians living today have in our hands the capital, the political capital, the possibility that the XXI. Make the century great and make it a winning century for the Hungarians. When we talk about 100 years, we have to mention the last ten years, because if we say something wrong in the Hungarian government's activities, it is Hungarian national policy. Over the past ten years, we have had results that have not been seen in the last hundred years or in the previous period. During the first period, between 2010 and 2014, we adopted laws of symbolic importance, and we made legislation, often by a large majority, just think of the law on dual citizenship, which was adopted by a 98 percent majority in Parliament. If we hadn't done anything else in the last ten years, we would have written our names in the history books, since it was a law of such importance, or a law ever since. As a result, on 12 March 2011, the first Hungarians from abroad took the oath of citizenship before Mayor József Mohácson and our former colleague, who were also Hungarian leaders in Croatia. Since then, more than 1 million Hungarians have gained Hungarian citizenship. [[18.50]] In this way, we can say that, in a public sense, we could unite the nation without changing borders. This possibility still exists for everyone, since all Hungarians have not yet made use of it. If we are talking about Hungarians today, we can talk about 12-12.5 million Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, 2.5 million Hungarians in the diaspora, so we can still talk about a 15 million Hungarians. Today, in the Carpathian Basin, we are most of us, and our fundamental responsibility is to see what the life of the Carpathian Basin will be like in the 21st century. In the first century, and in the following centuries. That is why I ask my fellow Members, the political groups, all Hungarian political parties, to have national policy as a kind of national minimum in this Parliament. Of course, we can argue here, or we can discuss acceptances, even the adoption of this declaration of rights, but on the outside we can only take one opinion, a single opinion, and we should always stick to it. I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the declaration of rights. Of course, the government supports this. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-08-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman István Simicskó, KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-226	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important that Klebelsberg Kuno's wisdom, which we often quote, should also be mentioned in this debate. He said there were three types of patriotism: the speaker, the bitter and the creator. I am pleased that the parliamentary decision proposal itself and the debate here also strengthen the creative spirit. I trust that this will also serve the certainty and predictability of the future, the power of the creative community is worth more than anything else. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-08-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm within the time frame available. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-06-08-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have very little time, so I would just like to share with you the small thought that identity, nation consciousness is not written, it is not simply spoken, it is not simply created through support for needs, but it is a very long spiritual process. In the event that the governing parties do not confirm and do not wish that emotions, the soul, have the effect that the nation consciousness of the future generation is at least strong enough to survive, then all this proclamation that they have spoken will, unfortunately, remain a written emissary. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-229	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Trianon has been spoken of in the past few days, the country, the nation, remembered together, never attended so many memorials. We also held a memorial meeting here in Parliament. Speaker László Kövér, President János Áder and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also stressed the importance of memory and faith in the future. I am pleased that the majority of Hungarian people understand and feel Trianon, although I am saddened by the fact that some of the Democratic Coalition and left-wing organs still question and do not understand the tragedy of Trianon. I hope that we can change that, too, and that will change. The suggestion that Trianon is the fault of the Hungarians is hurting itself, which is repeated by many. I also ask these organs to stop these attacks, since Trianon cannot be denied, nor can it be relativised. It's a hypocrite to remember that we're stopping for a moment, but we're giving the case an interpretation that it's in the past, it's against someone else, and it doesn't affect us, and we're responsible for it anyway. In such cases, I suggest to our Balliberal friends that they be silent, not relativized, not miscopyed, since it is not possible to reduce or relativize historical sins, it is the same sin as denying these sins. In such a case, I suggest you keep your mouth shut, be quiet, don't act in any way. It is also more respectable than to mimic and relativity this terrible historical tragedy. The political statement before us is about the protection of Hungarian national identity and the fact that Trianon is still living with us today, it is necessary that we have international instruments to stand up for Hungarians across the border. In addition to bilateral relations, it is therefore important to enforce minority rights within international institutions. The right to national identity is a comprehensible principle and it is important for the bodies of the European Union to understand the need to protect indigenous national communities, not only to protect the rights of irregular migrants, but also to protect the rights of indigenous communities. This is what the Minority SafePack initiative is about, which is what the SZNT initiative is about, and that is what this statement is about. It is important that we fight our battles both within the Council of Europe and within the European Union in order to succeed in these initiatives. With regard to political speeches, I would just like to say to Vice-President Hiller that I am not attacking on a national basis when I say that I find it difficult to interpret European identity, because Christianity is being removed from this identity by the leadership of the European Union, which is a key element of this identity, but it is definitely an important factor in our European identity, if not on an identity basis. I welcome the support attitude of the LMP. We've got to get used to this in connection with SZNT. Thank you this way. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] We also held a debate in the committee with Mr Balczó on the continued change of representative of Jobbik in the committee, so it was difficult to agree exactly who our partner was in this. No wonder they sometimes attack Jobbik when Jobbik chose the partners he chose. Thank you very much. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Come on, let's not joke. That's what I'm talking about.]]
u2020-06-08-231	Welcome. For example, I would like to inform Mr Balczó, who has applied for two minutes so that I can give him the opportunity for 56 seconds. There you go. Now.
u2020-06-08-232	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Pál Sigismund Barna made this page cut completely unnecessary. When we asked for a joint presentation of what we had created together, you said on the committee why the opposition did not submit one, there could have been another. Well, the more serious thing than having two statements like that on this day? ! And that, where appropriate, a fellow Member, a mayor, in a Hungarian city, was elected now, on 13 October, with a broad cooperation there, and, where appropriate, a representative of DK working at local level, and to say that he should choose his allies? Jobbik doesn't have a party sorority, but he's very happy to cooperate with everyone, the Fidesz, on good matters. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-08-233	Congressman Sigmond Barna Pál! You have 15 seconds, Congressman, okay?
u2020-06-08-234	Mr Balczó, it was you who began to explain in person here and brought all kinds of negative dimensions into this positive debate. Congressman Hiller has also raised the bar very high in this debate, and everyone has spoken to it in a fundamentally constructive spirit. You're the one who started explaining, no one asked you to be accounted for, and yet you explained it. [[Zoltán Balczó: When you want this removed? Lifts up your laptop, which shows the inscription "Trianon 100" on it.]]
u2020-06-08-235	Honourable Members, [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You couldn't even be elegant in this! Amazing!]] The consolidated debate is closed as the timeframes have run out. I'll inform you... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The true face of everyone always comes out when they have power in their hands! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] I'm closing the debate right now. I'm glad you're listening to this. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. You can give your opinion with an address in five minutes. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-236	Mr President, Dear House, In connection with the anniversary of Trianon's 100, we have to say that the current populationization of Hungary, the current demographic processes in Hungary, raise problems that should not be avoided and should be silenced would be equivalent to treason. Therefore, if we look at the opportunity of a young Hungarian today to set foot in his own country, to find a home of his own, to start a family, then we will certainly see a disappointing picture. The opportunity to get to a single home is successful or up from the upper middle class. In the meantime, it becomes a series of decades of endless challenges. In view of this, we have had the hope for this year, whether it is the construction of apartments for rent or the construction of real estate, that a discount system will be introduced, which is a real opportunity for Hungarian people and young people in typical living situations to create homes. [[19.00]] On the basis of the latest data from KSH, only 4775 new apartments were built in the first quarter of 2020. This construction number would only be sufficient to replace the domestic housing stock every 200 years, and we can also see in the recent report that the number of apartments to be built on the basis of issued building permits and simple announcements is 27 percent less than during the same period of the previous year. So at a time when more available homes are needed, a wider discount system and more opportunities are reduced, even the number of new builders is reduced, and we also see that the government has led out the preferential apartment tax, which can reduce the number of new build apartments by 20-25 percent. The state aid for housing savings has been abolished, putting tens of thousands of young people in a position where they are no longer able to save for home creation in a supported form. The CSOK provides a measurable amount of aid only in the case of relatively good income and in the case of credit ratings decided by banks that fall out very often by those who really need it. And we also see that the government does not deal with the unsustainable situation of people living in the apartments. According to the Spanish model, for example, in the middle of the epidemiological emergency, it was possible to announce with a simple contract that man was temporarily disturbed and that a State background fund could provide temporary assistance. This package would still be considered in Hungary. But it's the construction of apartments and mass rentals that are actually unforgivable. It costs literally Hungarian children's lives and the lives of Hungarian families. Better, these families will find their calculations at least in other countries, and worse, these children will not be born. And this is the real national disaster, about which every force that thinks in a nation has a duty to declare, speak, and, more importantly, seek solutions. One of our solutions is the rental support system I mentioned earlier, but we have something else. With regard to the home creation, rental building programme, concept, we are waiting for, five extra five thousand new-built apartments each year, and now it is necessary and possible to renovate vacant flats, and for a third five thousand we believe that a comprehensive college building programme is also needed, since there have been unsustainable conditions in the colleges' so-called and quotation marks, but in its market. You can see that it is very difficult to get into these institutions, and students from the countryside who want to move forward, get a better education or even a degree, encounter an impossible situation, housing cataclysms both in Budapest and in large cities. For them, therefore, a college network is needed that allows conscious planning. It means that they do not have to give ten years of their lives to repay loans simply because successive governments simply abandon housing cataclysms, the scarcity of the supply side, they do not even notice. It is even saddening to see the 21st century. The current government is also powerless in terms of the achievements of the century. To add, let's be fair: everything has been. They are not often able to interpret the problems caused by the techniques provided by Airbnb, and these problems remain untreated. What is certain, however, that the Hungarian future cannot be in opposition, the interests of Hungarian young people and Hungarian families must also be put before all other aspects of budget planning. That's what Jobbik does for his part, which is why he's handing in his future protection package. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-08-237	Thank you very much. László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, representative of the LMP:. Our city, Pécs, has the title "12" on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-238	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, after the agenda, I will talk about my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya County. Pécs and Baranya, we know that since the change of regime, it has been on a virtually continuous path and it is a very difficult economic area. Today, the county of Baranya is the last nationwide in terms of per capita industrial performance, and Pécs is the largest city in Transdanubia, by far the weakest of the large rural regional centres. Unfortunately, these data, these economic problems, are also reflected in the tragic emigration data of Pécs and Baranya County. In the last 10 to 12 years alone, about 15,000 people have left the city of Pécs out of necessity, so a better livelihood or even a better livelihood. In recent times, they have been pro-government and Fidesz city leaders for a long time, before that, socialist-liberal coalition, well, none of the formations had much to do with the city of Pécs or Baranya county. And now, in this very difficult, bled-out situation, Pécs and the county were also valued, otherwise, like other regions of the country, very, very brutal government austerity measures. We can say that in such a situation, on the brink of an emerging economic crisis, such a difficult area and city and county will not be able to recover from these austerity measures without major problems and shocks. It is therefore our intention to do everything in our power to withdraw these outrageous government measures. We believe that this is not a party political issue, and that must be played by all MPs in Pécs and Baranya County, regardless of whether they sit in pro-government or opposition benches or represent these voting bases. We believe that this is not a party political issue, and no one has received his mandate from different parties, everyone has gained his mandate from Hungarian people, and in this case, from people from Baranya, Pécsi, Pécsi. What are these austerity measures that will have unfathomably serious consequences for our region? We have talked a lot here in Parliament about the restrictions on local governments and cities, but we have to say that these government austerity measures are now threatening universities. During the debate, Minister of State Bódis acknowledged from the University of Pécs in this very room, so the government wishes to withdraw nearly two billion forints from the University of Pécs for economic protection purposes, while we know that this huge amount is spent on projects such as the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which is incomprehensible. Let it be clear to everyone that such a two billion-dollar withdrawal, a two billion-dollar austerity measure, will have an impact on the University of Pécs. A few years ago, the government withdrew a few hundred million forints, which also led to very serious cuts; and this two billion-dollar layoff will have quite terrible consequences. Obviously, the university will not be able to manage this, and in this form a very, very important rural university will certainly not be able to operate any longer. It must be said that the University of Pécs is far more important not only in Pécs, not only in the county, but also in the whole region. This is practically a city in the city, not only one university, but by far the largest employer, there are over 7,000 employees in the university. So it represents a significant economic strength, one of the largest employers in the region, not to mention that it is the most important cultural player in the city and the whole region, county and region, and obviously also an important player in scientific life. So this blow will not only be felt directly by the university, but also by the whole city, Baranya County and the whole region. Similarly, the withdrawal of car taxes will be a major challenge. This is what we know that in the case of Pécs, this is just about half a billion forints, and this city will certainly not be able to manage in a very difficult situation, but it will be an unbearable burden for small towns, small towns and villages as well. This has already been revealed by the leaders of various advocacy organisations that practically two thirds of small settlements will be in an infinitely difficult, virtually hopeless situation. Similarly, it is a shameful and unacceptable decision, which does not support or undermine any professionalism, that the government should take it away from the government, that the government should withdraw from the financing of local public transport. So he basically entrusts this to the municipalities, entrusts it to the cities, while we know precisely that there are hardly any municipalities and cities in Hungary that can solve this at the right level. Similarly, it is a serious decision to condemn two railway sidelines in Baranya County to death, right, the Villány-Mohacs and Godisa-Komló railway lines. Therefore, today I have sent a letter to all Members of Parliament in Pécs and Baranya to initiate a joint initiative towards the government, the government, to withdraw these outrageous restrictions. Therefore, we expect Péter Hoppál, Csaba Nagy, Erik Bánki, János Harghitai, Bertalan Tóth, Tamás Melár, László Szakács, in agreement with my colleague, Krisztina Hohn, to stand on the side of the people of Baranya County. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-08-239	Thank you. Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, gives his speech on the agenda with the title "The Reward for the Frontline Fighters." Here you go.
u2020-06-08-240	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, We could also have labeled this speech as a request after the agenda, since it was said from government officials in many places and also from Minister of State that the service of healthcare workers here is awarded a one-time gross reward of HUF 500,000 for the viral period. Here, allow me to make a detailed list of who you have in mind, Minister. [[19.10]] The Minister said that the one-off allowance will be provided to all doctors, nurses, assistants working in public-funded care, the managers and economic directors of the services responsible for the handling of works, the National Rescue Service and other service providers carrying out the transport of patients, as well as the directors and economic directors of health care providers working in the technical, economic and administrative fields and providing active inpatient care. This salary supplement will also be provided to GPs, primary care dentists, assistants, nurses, full-time school doctors, home hospice services and staff of home care services. Health workers from the National Centre for Public Health and the Government Offices and the District Offices, as well as those involved in health activities, medical students involved in patient care during an emergency, employees of the Hungarian Defence Office and staff in the field of protection and health care are also entitled to a one-off allowance. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to the portfolio manager, part-time workers should also be entitled to the full amount and those who are on leave, unpaid leave, sick leave, working time, or in kind. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear members of the Government, Unfortunately, I don't see one in the Chamber right now. [[For signal:]] Excuse me, notary's here. If that is the case, then allow me to say a great thank you to the health workers in my voice, if that is the case. But as it happens, unfortunately, in every reward, every single bill, sometimes we forget someone. We have now forgotten a layer that has been mentioned several times today, either in the hour of questions before the agenda or in the hour of immediate questions. This is nothing more than a matter for social workers. I mean, if we're looking at a system that is the healthcare system, it has to work with clockwork, and every gear has its place in this system, just like the hospital assistant, the surgeon, the anesthesiologist, the doctor, the cleaning lady, the technicians, and there's also part of the social sector. One can't work without the other. We know that during the virus period, the large number of people infected, and most of them, were in social institutions. How can we say that they weren't exposed to this infection? They were there directly, and many workers were infected with the virus. A lot of workers began to compensate for lack of adequate protective equipment. A lot of employees had to be quarantined for two weeks, and they couldn't see their families for two weeks. Many workers who work in the social sphere have volunteered to move into an elderly home during the epidemic and to provide full - time care for those who are cared for there. I think, and that is why I said that this speech after today's agenda will not be a speech, but will be a request after the agenda, because there is still so much time for the government until 1 July, and there is such a budgetary resource in this budget for 2020 that it does not forget the people we unfortunately have to say that we have forgotten each year. Now is the time to make it up to them. In my view, there are resources in the budget that we can spare to ensure that the Hungarian economy is still stable. We need less poster campaigns, fewer serialisations, and I think more for those working in the social sector, whether in the elderly's home or in the primary care or among other ecclesiastical organizations. Thank you for listening, and I ask that you consider my request. Thank you.
u2020-06-08-241	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member, is speaking with the title 'Self-Identification in the Souls'. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I knew that I could only comment on the debate on the political declaration on the protection of national identity in a very small way, so I applied for a post- Agenda speech to link some of my thoughts to this. First of all, the content of this statement carries any problems. Of course, the answer is no. Then it is also a question of the fact that everything that is contained in this declaration is in the proposal. The answer is yes. If we look at it, and this statement states that between 1920 and 2011, the number of Hungarian national brothers across the border has fallen from 3 million 278 thousand to 2 million 90 thousand, then we can say that this statement and all that this declaration raises for the future is an important question. It is also about the fact that the number of Hungarians across the border, ethnic cleansings against communities, homogenisation, emigration caused by economic difficulties, and all the difficulties caused by our Hungarians across the border that have brought our national brothers to this point, that they have fallen by 36 percent, it is indeed a very serious problem, but one thing is forgotten. And this is what's going on with the motherland. If, in such terrible struggles, our national brothers have lost only 36 percent of their population, which is, I beg your pardon, that I am saying only that, but in the mother country, there is a much greater crisis if we look at the survival of Hungarians, the unspeakable amount of natural weight loss. In 1980 there were 10 709 463 inhabitants in Hungary, which was 9,769,000 by 2020. In 2011, the 10 million mark was crossed by the motherland population. Until 1932, the number of live births was over 200,000, and between 1953 and 55 the number of live births was again above 200,000 in the Ratkó era. By 1998, the number of live births had fallen below 100,000, and since then the number of live births in the motherland has never increased above 100,000. This means, please, that while in 1921 and the year after Trianon, 255 thousand new children were born, because everyone felt that the loss of Hungarians could be somewhat replaced by the birth of as many children as possible, about 90 years later, in 2011, the lowest, 88 049 new children. This means, fellow Members, that in the mother country, the willingness to procreate has decreased to 35% in ninety years. This is the real tragedy. They say that sociologists also say that, unfortunately, I take the words from a study already born in 2013, in the Carpathian Basin, they attach less and less importance to national affiliation among Hungarians. Sociologists and cultural sociologists draw attention to the fact that, unfortunately, the new generation does not receive enough spiritual food to preserve the kind of nation consciousness, the identity of Hungarians, which we are talking about in this proclamation, for example. Researchers say that the biggest mistake is that children do not receive literary works or symbols presenting the significance of Hungarians in kindergartens or schools, but experience them as mandatory, and therefore cannot become intoxicated to their personality. You're saying, what's identity? The multi-layered psychic robe surrounding the individual, which does not isolate it, but connects the individual to the network of society. Well, then I would ask my fellow Members of Parliament, the representatives of the government, to give this robe for the next generation, this protective-observing net, which appears as a variety of envelopes, so that we can rebuild the identity of Hungarians to the new generation, since research also concludes that unfortunately this is not the primary part of a large number of our countrymen. The identity of Hungarians is of a cultural national nature, i.e. it is not primarily determined by the consciousness of blood, but by the consciousness of belonging to the cultural community. If, on the other hand, we have this tool, I ask that it be not just declarations. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Let us not only talk about it, but everyone should also make sure that the nation-consciousness of Hungarians comes back. Thank you very much. [[19.20]]
u2020-06-08-243	Thank you very much. Mr. Erik Fülöp, an independent representative, entitled "The Consequences of the Deák Square Stabbing." Here you go.
u2020-06-08-244	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, We have been sorry to hear in the last few days, in the last few weeks, that the horrific stabbing crimes that, in many cases, end with the deaths of the victims have come together. I'm sure a lot of people remember that a few months ago, on tram 26, a drug addict who was drunk stabbed a young man. I'm sure a lot of people have also been informed that there was a fatal stabbing in Gyula last week. But I can mention that there is a debate in Budapest almost every week in a nightclub or nightlife that ends with stabbing and, in many cases, the death of the victims. I would also like to draw attention to this, and in the context of a very regrettable tragedy, I think it should be mentioned that the incident in Deák Square, about two and a half weeks ago, not only covered the Hungarian press, but also received an echo at European level. I do not want to deal with the fact that certain extreme-balliberal organs are already trying to set up the two young men who have just gone out to celebrate and have fun, and then, to their great misfortune, they have run into a group of people who have been repeatedly punished for various acts of violence, who have been going to the institutions, the juveniles' prisons, and the various prison places of imprisonment, and I would like to put those people who are going to the nightlife to have fun carrying knives, and who are not even afraid to use them, and who are even killing people with brutal, inhuman bestiality. This is why the Hungarian Movement would like to state that there is unfortunately no order in Hungary today, and there has been an extremely harmful knife-using subculture, which, on the one hand, means that, as I mentioned earlier, such media, groups and criminal groups consider it natural that every minute of the day and even drunkenly, drugged in the night of the city or even in rural pubs, a knife is also being pulled out, and unfortunately, the direct consequence of this is that many honest law-abiding citizens who, for reasons of self-defence and not because they want to use it, want to protect themselves from precisely such persons, also carry a knife. I think that the MiHazák Movement has such a good idea on this, it has a proposal that must be supported not only by the opposition benches, but also by the pro-government representatives, which is that we are trying to reform this knife-use subculture significantly. In the future, the Hungarian Movement will submit a package of proposals, the first part of which means a tightening of the criminal code, which would actually mean that any person with a criminal record, quasi-criminal, who has not yet been exempt from the adverse consequences, and who carries a knife in public territory, and which will be found in any kind of check, could be subject to a very serious penalty, in a qualified case, to a sentence of up to three years. I would like to emphasise once again that this applies only to those elements who have already had criminal records, have committed more crimes, we are trying to separate them. However, those who have never been in conflict with the Hungarian laws and the authorities as law-abiding citizens would not be affected by this kind of situation, and they hold the knife with them for a kind of self-defense purpose. However, I would also like to report very briefly on the other two points in the package of proposals. I think that the kind of current regulation and regulation that has declared the various types of self-defense, pepper spray and other gas spray instruments prohibited is subject to review because of the brutal crimes of the last few weeks or months. Therefore, our country Movement supports the re-acquisition of these assets for self-defense purposes. And, of course, we are also protesting the package of proposals which, from 2023 onwards, would ban the use and carrying of various gas, alarm and rubber bullet weapons. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2020-06-08-245	Thank you very much. Mr László Hajdu, representative of the Democratic Coalition, will address his speech after the agenda with the title "Our twin cities of Magyarlakta." Here you go.
u2020-06-08-246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In connection with Trianon's 100th anniversary, there were many approaches to memory, commemoration, partly facing, one aspect did not come up very well, and this is that there is a level of Hungarian-Hungarian relations, which is represented by the municipalities. Among the municipalities, there are 3173 municipalities in Hungary according to KSH, about 1800 have formalized partnerships. I'm not saying that they're all cross-border settlements, but they all have partnerships, and they're not formalized, so they're not signed by contract, but they're still working relationships. This, I think, is also a very big opportunity in the national policy strategy, although these relations are not very well accounted for, there may be delegations coming and going at the moment, although the fight against the virus does not make this possible now, but there is a very vivid connection compared to, say, an official protocol meeting in Marosvásárhely with the aircraft, Mercedes with the bodyguards, and then they travel back, and there was a good relationship, there they were. Twinning is a living Hungarian-Hungarian relationship, with a white table, kindergarten, school, sports camp, exchange, children's recreation, school support, teachers' exchanges, language teaching. So I have to say, even if we want to operate the Hungarian-Hungarian relationship, it is not enough to make a nice statement, it is not enough to accept documents, to legislate them into parliamentary decisions, or to draw the attention of the parliaments of the partner countries, in case they do not know that Hungarians live there; so I think that we should not underestimate the relations of local governments in this respect. I'd like to bring my own example here, so I asked for the floor. One: we have 29 years in Harghita county, I have to add that I have been in the municipal system for 30 years, and we have only established a partnership in the area where Hungarians are scattered and minority. It's very easy where I'm completely in Hungary, so it's that level. In a place where there is no mayor, so that the mayor is waiting in protocol for dinner, but it must be created to strengthen the Hungarians there to welcome us, because a mayor will be welcomed by the local association or local organization. And we need to adapt our negotiating style if we are in Slovakia, if we are in Croatia, if we are in Slovenia, if we are in Austria or in Transylvania, Romania. [[19.30]] And we have to be able to endure the programs of meeting with a husband or wife who is married to the mayor there, who speaks a little Hungarian, but rather in Romanian or Slovak or Croatian. So I think it is a very complex matter, and the hundred years have really stirred up these cases, and there we can hear about these great Hungarian messages, which we have now said with such a large pátoss how it strikes in some settlements. For example, how does Kassaan, a very large city of the Monarchy, strike? This Košice does not show the capital, the support, the great opportunities that can appear in Miercurea Ciuc or Targu Mureş or in other major Hungarian-inhabited cities. It must not be differentiated because it can be counterproductive in a national policy. I think that I asked for a word only so that we should not forget the municipalities that represent the direct relationship of the Hungarian population, because there may be a multi-party delegation, these meetings are multi-party, as opposed to what happened here, that they may not even sign the other parties. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Varga applauds.]]
u2020-06-08-247	Thank you. Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK:. The discreet charm of the national capital class will be the title of his speech after the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-06-08-248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, In fact, I would like to talk about the up-to-date national capital class produced by the Orbán system for a few thoughts, the roots of which are, I think, more than 30 years ago, perhaps for Viktor Orbán's childhood. We don't know that, but I'd like to start my little commemoration from 2006. Perhaps many remember the thousands and one threads of the Fidesz-related Taxers' Association of Interests. If someone doesn't stop by, I'd like to be more specific: it's a lady who owns a brush shop, and she's a civilian, and she's also the president of one of the Fidesz constituencies. And if you still don't stop by, I'd like to tell you what we're talking about: a newspaper they're publishing, the first tabloid of Fidesz, and this is the Hungarian Vizsla. We know very well that the Magyar Vizsla was published in colour, it was more than eight pages old, it was distributed free of charge, it was placed in almost every mailbox in 2006, and what was special about this rag was that it was mostly, and only about the suits, cars and watches of left-wing government members. Allow me to skip a few years in time and we are already ahead of the following elections: Viktor Orbán is already terrorizing left-wing politicians with government Audi keys, while he talks about that his government will be the smallest, cheapest, humblest and most plebeic government of all time. He promises that they will be dating low-cost Skodas, and his national government will set an exemplary start on itself and perhaps finish saving. Well, this is the window, but what's the reality of this? The reality is, and I would jump again here, and we are already in 2012, when Viktor Orbán states that he did not actually fight the dictatorship in the '80s, but only against its leaders, i.e. I would translate it from Hungarian to Hungarian: Viktor Orbán basically agrees with the dictatorship in case he can lead all of this. And that's true. What do we see now? Viktor Orbán is now happy to build his little dictatorship, his little sick system, and so much for Orbán's change of regime. Once again, we are at 2019, when the government manages the largest public car purchase of all time in the amount of HUF 82 billion. Here I would refer back to the above-mentioned low-cost Skodák, which is already very strong, the strongest, many tens of millions, full-end, luxurious Skodák not only to the State Secretarys and the Deputy State Secretarys, but if we continue in this way, then it will be to the Presidents of the Fidesz constituency as well. And from the promise of the smallest government of all time, in reality, the largest state waterhead has become: it would be possible to create a battalion from State Secretarys, if we count the deputies, I'll risk the regiment coming out of them. Today, government luxury aircrafts are also playing alongside government luxury cars, otherwise government members, but most of all Viktor Orbán, of course, and the costs no longer matter, just like appearances no longer matter. It does not matter so much that Viktor Orbán, in contrast to the fear of his great predecessor, Mátyás Rákosi, moves into the Castle, transforms the Carmelite monastery according to his own needs for tens of billions of forints, which he now feels so much his own, that the corridors of the Carmelite monastery are not only loud from the shiva of the grandchildren, but in his spare time Viktor Orbán also leaves the leaven pickles here. So much for Orbán's plebeius government. And without any special surprise, we note that the entire gambling portfolio owned by the deceased Andy Vajna suddenly falls into the hands of István Garancsi; that Simicska's interests are fully transferred to the Mészáros family by some magical miracle; that the Prime Minister's father deals surprisingly with Mészáros, and breaks billions of dividends from his companies rushing as a comet because of state orders, as well as his young son-in-law, who suddenly became a billionaire entrepreneur; that Viktor Orbán's daughter becomes the most influential woman in the country in just two years, and then slowly takes the entire tourism industry into his name. And now they don't want to explain that Hungary has become one of the most corrupt countries, that the creation of the national capital class is, in fact, the recapitalisation of the Fidesz lunar yard, its buddy galleries, of course, with public money. Today we know that there is no Hungarian Vizsla for a long time, but there is no honor in the government. There is a national capital class in Orbán, but it stinks from afar. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-08-249	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, good night, everyone.
