u2020-11-23-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 21st day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Bence Tordai will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. After that, immediate questions and answers will take place over a two-hour period. Finally, we will continue our work with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-11-23-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor in front of the Parliament today to inform my fellow Members about the state of defence against the world epidemic in Hungary, given that the second wave of epidemics is rampant in the world, in Europe too, health care systems are stretched out, and the global economy is also facing serious challenges. I respectfully inform you that the health care system in Hungary continues to stand up to the problem, it can provide an increasing number of infected people, technical tools, protection tools and medical devices are available. Allow us here to express our thanks and appreciation to all health workers and their supporters for the efforts we have made so far. Ladies and gentlemen, In relation to health protection, however, we must also say that the real solution would be the vaccine, so the Government of Hungary has done everything in its power to ensure that Hungarian people get a safe, effective vaccine as soon as possible and as quickly as possible. A number of rumors and false news have, of course, come to light in recent times, although it is also necessary to see that if someone is spreading rumors or false news on this important issue, they are indeed messing with the lives of Hungarian people. So let us be clear about this, and I would like to make it clear to you that in Hungary a vaccine which has been examined and authorised by the competent authorities can only be given to people on the basis of the legislation in force. This therefore means that the Hungarian authorities decide which vaccine is safe or which is not. But this also means that non-business and non-political lobbying and lobbying interests decide what kind of vaccine can be given to Hungarian people free of charge and on a voluntary basis. There are two authorities in Hungary that have decision-making powers in this respect, the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health and the National Centre for Public Health. They examine the vaccine samples coming to Hungary on a clear procedure basis and decide whether or not the vaccine can be used in Hungary. It is our duty, and we will do so, to keep an eye on every vaccine development in the world. We have created a position that, of course, I would like to underline once again, we can bring it in after the proper authorisation processes, and in the interests of the Hungarian people we can use the vaccines that are being developed in the world. In this regard, allow me to inform you. In the European Union and European-American cooperation, there are three developments in vaccine development where we have reached the level, the stage where vaccines can be ordered when they can be tied down. As part of the joint project of AstraZeneca, Janssen and Pfizer and BioNTech, 12 million vaccines were committed from a Hungarian point of view. At the same time, we must also make it clear that these vaccines can also be placed on the market and delivered after appropriate authorisation processes, after the appropriate development phase has been completed. Thus, large quantities of transport in the EU and US projects will be expected at some point in the spring months, based on forecasts from large pharmaceutical companies. Just be aware of the timetable and reality. Of course, we will also keep an eye on the other processes marked by Sanofi, Moderna, CureVac or Novavax, and if these developments reach the stage that we can already conclude a contract, we can commit quantities, of course we will do this. There's a vaccine development going on east of us. I would also like to inform you about this. In Russia, the development of the vaccine is currently halfway through the third experimental phase. This third phase takes about six months, last week they passed the third month, when they received a mid-term report, which showed 92 percent effectiveness in the mid-term report; 40 thousand people complete the vaccination and tests overall. For the first time in Europe, 10 doses of this vaccine came to Hungary last week. It has come here to enable the Hungarian authorities to carry out, at the same time as the necessary documentation, investigations which are intended to enable the experts to decide whether this vaccine is safe, effective, we recommend it to the Hungarian people, or we do not recommend it. So all the contrary rumors are false rumors, lies, honourable Members. The Hungarian authorities decide which vaccine is suitable, safe and effective. But in order for the Hungarian authorities to decide that, so that we can be in a position to offer Hungarian people the choice options, the appropriate documentation and the sample must be here in Hungary. Vaccine development is also taking place in China, where three companies are developing vaccines, and we are naturally in contact with all three of them. They continuously compile the documentation package that is essential for OGYI and NNK in Hungary to implement control, control and certification mechanisms. The company Sinopharm is the closest to closing phase 3 experiments; and the GOC has announced that it will start reviewing the results of the third phase, which, if found appropriate, the company will be able to close this phase of development and then obtain permission to sell abroad. I spoke to the Chinese Foreign Minister on the phone last Friday, with whom we confirmed that we will continue to maintain close contact and consultation, and if Chinese vaccine development reaches the stage of sending the relevant documentation and samples to Hungary, this will happen. The Hungarian authorities can also carry out the necessary tests there, and they can decide whether this vaccine is suitable for use in Hungary or not. [[11.10]] Similarly, consultations, contacts and cooperation are ongoing with Israel, the Israeli government, as vaccine development is also taking place there. In addition to the vaccine, ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to consider the issue of the transport of medicinal products in Hungary, since those who already have symptoms should be able to take sufficient amounts of medicinal products with the active substance favipiravir in order to avoid the increase and severity of symptoms. A medicine containing the active substance favipiravir can be obtained from the east. To date, we have purchased 1.8 million medicinal products of the active substance favipiravir from China to Hungary, and they are also given to patients in hospitals. The next shipment, the next one million will arrive in Hungary tomorrow. In addition, at the end of the week, a new one million-dollar shipment arrived from Japan with a total of two million tablets in order to treat Hungarian people in hospitals, those who already have symptoms. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, I can tell you that the whole world is waiting for the vaccine, the safe, effective vaccine, to be established, to be developed in several places: east of us and west of us. It is our duty to ensure that the Hungarian people get to Hungary as quickly as possible the effective and safe vaccine, with which vaccination will be free and self-conscious for the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Under the relevant house rules, it is possible to speak on the part of the political groups within a five-to-five-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-3	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, First of all, I think that we should start by thanking, encouraging and asking them to continue to set an example of their endurance in the sense that everything needs to be done and that our fellow countrymen who catch the disease, who become part of the epidemic, can recover. We hope that this fight will be effective. But this confidence by the Hungarian Government, I see that it can be shaken several times, it will be shaken when it comes up with such delayed information as it is now, Minister. The Hungarian government has been talking about the Russian vaccine against the coronal virus for weeks now, and because of the protest of the Russian government, they do not want to acknowledge the position of science. Even though the profession cautions everyone about the Russian vaccine, despite the warnings of international authorities, you ignore this. Even now, Minister, first of all, he has paid attention to how quickly and urgently we need to respond, but what we are calling attention to, Minister, is that it is true that it is important to have a vaccine as soon as possible, but security is more important than that. And in this security, we can't rely on you, let's just say that information you may have given us, because of what you've done so far. We do not ask for political experiments that you want to introduce to a country now, either because of their conduct as panic governments. I think it is the official recommendation of the European Union that is valid in this respect, and your sentences do not recall that the vaccine authorised by the European Medicines Agency will be used by our doctors in Hungary. I understand you're studying the documentation. However, it is also in this intention to encourage our authorities to undertake experiments for politically motivated reasons, and this, I think, is unacceptable. So make it as soon as possible, but as safe as possible, and I therefore propose to the Minister that you turn it over, first of all, to safety and then to speed. But I must confess that I do not trust you and your government, Minister. You have lied to us too much, you have raped authorities too many times by what they should do and what you intend to do. Therefore, I call on you not to force health professionals to take a stand on this. Politically pressured licensing within the framework of what you mentioned, that's not enough. Therefore, I reiterate that, in accordance with the official recommendation of the European Union, only the vaccine authorised by the European Medicines Agency should be used. And we want to believe and believe that our doctors will do everything for us, because they want to heal and not put them in an impossible position. By the way, as you have mentioned, even with volunteers, and I could say that for money, many experiments can be carried out, but we do not recommend this here in Hungary. I know that the epidemic will give you the opportunity to try to find a solution from an agreement between nations. With all due respect, I suggest that you pay attention to it as a Member State of the European Union and do nothing but use a vaccine, which has been approved and supported by the recommendation of the European Medicines Agency. In Hungary, only such a vaccine should be dealt with. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-23-4	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I am pleased to see that you have recovered, I hope you have fully recovered from the virus, and I wish you further good health at your work. However, it is difficult to go without saying how irresponsible he was not only during the first wave of the epidemic, but also during the second wave: he almost never used a mask as a traveling foreign minister, and we do not know how and why he caught the virus, but it certainly contributes significantly to the risk of contamination. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Why are you lying?]] Just as it is instructive that a young, athletic, vibrant person can be pulled by Covid, so it would be worth taking care of ourselves and taking care of each other. But the latter failed, half of Southeast Asia was infected, Cambodia had to shut down a lot of institutions, a lot of people had to quarantine because of your irresponsibleness. I'm sorry about that, especially because, by the way, he would have gone there to reopen the embassy in Cambodia, which is important, he did, thank you very much. It was a mistake to close it, it was a good thing to open it again, but it took attention from all of it, who was infected and who not, instead of improving relations between the two countries. Some people on Facebook and other sites even risk that this could be good because it makes it easier to sell that amazing amount of overpriced ventilator purchased in excess [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: This is a full low point in a minute and a half!]] The one that was bought during the first wave. It turns out that 17,000 ventilators were purchased for hundreds of billions, while only a few thousand intensive beds, 3-4 thousand intensive beds, can be set up by the Hungarian health care industry at all. So we don't need any more ventilators, so now, as you've got them overpriced, you're obviously going to sell them at a lower price. And it looks like you're dealing with vaccinations, too, and you must be very busy with that. I would suggest that we wait for the European Medicines Agency to test the vaccine that is being given to people in Hungary, as the European Commission itself has requested. [[11.20]] Therefore, it is not enough for the national authority to examine whether to place something on the market within the Union, a medicinal product, a vaccine, must also be authorised by the European Medicines Agency. Please keep this to yourself and don't look for any legal loopholes. A lot of activity can be solved, of course, if you can chopper this much and save as much as you can during travel, and you can relax on a yacht every summer, as you did on the gift of a fidesz billionaire, if we are well informed, as a gift worth 50-70 million forints. You have a lot of friends of foreign ministers, don't you, when you talk to them, ask them, if you accept a gift of this magnitude from an entrepreneur close to the government, who regularly wins public procurement, then it is considered a suspicion of corruption, and you have to cancel it. I would ask you not to discuss this in friendship with the Eastern dictators' foreign ministers, but, let us say, to discuss it with the foreign ministers of the EU states. I'm bringing this up because he's been hiding from the Hungarian Parliament ever since, we haven't seen his color here, and since then these questions have not been asked to you. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Hiding in Quarantine! , Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties.]] that the luxury yachting of László Szíyi was what it was or wasn't. [[Dr. Pál Völner:]] And we couldn't ask him the same thing when he was hiding for the yacht scandal, and since then, the questions that we've been directing to his troubles as a foreign minister. One: how could it be that the Fidesz government congratulated the last European dictator, Lukashenka, first of all, while the elected US President Joe Biden, last of all, was congratulated from the region? Putin's the only one who's ever done anything worse in these cases, hasn't he, Szijjártó? But with their other friend President Bolsonaro, Brazil's fascistoid president, they also made very good deals: they bought some transport machines to save the wealth in industrial quantities, when the time comes for the change of government to come and they have to escape what they want to escape. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Bajnai escaped only!]] So I ask because of all of this, because now you can answer that you are considering submitting your resignation, because it would be up to the foreign minister to make friends throughout the country and the world, compared to this, Hungary's foreign minister is pissed off by the elected president of the largest power, and begins to corrupt when industrial-scale corruption is just your government. So I would add that if he had stayed on László Szíyi's luxury yacht and hadn't worked at all in recent months, he would have done less harm than he did for Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-6	Dear Parliament, Of course, Mr President, you have confused your current response with the speech before the agenda. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP Group.
u2020-11-23-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, There's a very big difference between us. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's for sure! Nacsa Lőrinc: That's right!]] 'Cause here's your new report, which really happened a long time ago, about what's gonna happen in five or six or even seven or eight months. This report was about where the vaccine research is, and what Hungary can expect. This is very, very important, and we are also very, very rooting and rooting for the possibility of obtaining permits as soon as possible, to start vaccination as soon as possible, to give protection to the Hungarian people widely and obviously to millions and billions of people living in the world. However, we haven't heard a word about what they're doing now in order to control the epidemic or at least slow it down. This is what we've just heard here, the last thing we need to do is do nothing. Every day, we hear how many people die, how many people get sick, how many people go to the hospital, how many people get laid off every day, how many businesses are planned, how many businesses are destroyed, how many businesses have lost their revenues, and how many families and entrepreneurs are desperate. Why didn't we hear immediate action? Why didn't we hear about dealing with the health crisis? Why didn't we hear about the escalating social crisis? Why haven't we heard of an increase in social benefits? Why haven't we heard about why they're desecrating local governments instead of seeing them as partners to deal with the virus in order to control the epidemic? We need action, Minister. [[Bence of Turdai takes his place in the notary seat.]] Why have we not heard of what they would like to do about the fact that from one year to the next, 72,000 of our retired countrymen were below the poverty line? Today, nearly 300,000 pensioners live below the poverty threshold in Hungary. Why haven't we heard about what you're planning to do about it? Why haven't we heard of at least 100 percent of patients who are confirmed to be infected with Covid in this transitional period in order to control the epidemic? Why do we have to listen to the words of the chief of staff, Muller Cecilia, who actually blames so-called super workers for taking antipyretics before they go to work because they dare not admit their illness because they can only count on 60 percent of their wages? Why is it that they don't help their livelihood? Why not give 80% wage support to companies whose order has fallen, as they do in Austria or the neighbouring countries, for example? Why do they refuse to increase the time of job search and the amount of unemployment benefit, since we can see, we can hear that there are already tens of thousands of people who are out of care, but unfortunately there is still a prospect of dismissals in the future. Why aren't they helping families? Why don't you raise your family allowance, your family allowance, your child, your child, your maternity allowance? Why don't you postpone the introduction of a penalty tax on catalysmic businesses? From 1 January, hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs in the middle of the crisis will have to face a decline in their turnover and income. And not least, with which I started: give the Hungarian pensioners a decent living, so that they do not have to live in poverty, as they are now in such a row because of your governance. And what is very, very important is, speaking of the laboratory, Austria: start an immediate mass testing, as they do in Austria! Christmas in a month. It is no coincidence that they will enter this project, it is no coincidence that the restrictive measures will also be used to see who is sick and who is not in Austria. We know that in the area of Christmas, families travel not only in Hungary, but throughout Europe, and in Austria they decided not to limit it, but to test the people who live there, to know who is sick, who is not, and who can take the precautions to protect the lives and health of the people who live there. Why can't this be done in Hungary? Why don't you start mass testing and real contact research to prevent the spread of the epidemic or at least slow it down? Answer these questions, Minister, not that. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] What will happen in five or eight or even nine months! Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-8	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I welcome you, Minister, and I am pleased that you have recovered, that you have been able to return to the Parliament's work in such a way as the Minister who provided the information on behalf of the Government. Before I ask my questions, I would also like to start by saying what I always say, that we respectfully thank you for the work of all those working in these difficult times to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people. We can see how difficult and difficult it is for them to work and stand up, so we should thank them for their sacrifices. Mr. Secretary. Under the extraordinary legal order, the government must be regularly informed before the Parliament. I see you as a member of the government. [[Péter Szijjártó: Thank you.]] So I'm going to ask you other questions than what you said, and I'm really hoping that you'll answer it with the momentum you started your expo, so you're going to clear up a few things. One of my fellow Members has already mentioned, perhaps Bertalan Tóth, that we can see that in this difficult time in Europe governments support local governments in most countries, given that the municipalities are the number one bastions of defence and have an extremely important role in effective defence. Compared to this, we have seen that last year, but after the period of the epidemic, this year you have taken successive austerity measures that put the municipalities already in a difficult situation and who have already lost a lot of income in a very difficult situation. It should be clear that if you take such measures, you will be punishing not the city leaders, not the mayors, but the people who live there, practically all Hungarian people, very seriously. Because, and you know that, Minister, the municipalities are responsible for the provision of the most important public services, and these public services are always, but now clearly very important in an epidemiological situation, and it is very, very difficult to maintain them. [[11.30]] Therefore, if you put the operation of the municipalities at risk, public services such as public lighting, public transport, basic health care, social services, kindergarten services, nursery care and drinking water could be classified for a long time. The President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has put in place a rather amazing plan, a proposal, on which the government is not very clear, and even Prime Minister, we can say that he has also taken a decisive attitude. Last week, I asked one of your State Secretarys, he refused to answer, he didn't give me a clear answer as to exactly what they were planning. The President of the Chamber proposed that the municipalities be deprived of a significant part of their tax revenue, making it impossible for them to operate. I've contacted 130 mayors in the first round, and I can tell you that many of you have already responded that the pro-government representatives also unanimously reject these amazing plans and have made it clear that there is a very difficult source of operation anyway, there are very serious losses due to the crisis, and basically they believe that the whole municipal system can work. I ask you, Minister, to make it clear what the government is planning to do, to prepare for measures which, after a series of cuts, are another major blow to the municipalities, thus causing very serious damage to the people. I would like to ask you to make it clear to you that there is no effective defence without strong authorities, so that the municipalities should be considered partners, provide them with the appropriate resources to carry out these important tasks, to withdraw the austerity measures that have already been taken, such as those concerning public transport, and to provide the necessary territorial information to the mayors, so that they can organise the defence precisely according to the needs. I would like to ask one more question about this: whether the government is planning to nationalise any kind of nationalisation, whether in relation to public services, or, say, social benefits, kindergarten care, kindergarten care, or even in relation to the water utility sector, or, where appropriate, targeted cities where local community transport is carried out by a local government-owned company. Can you expect any government plans that would lead to nationalisation in the case of such public services? We also see the adventurous policy that you are pursuing and which endangers the European Union's resources that Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy would desperately need. I ask you to be responsible in politics, not veto the budget of the Union, and make it impossible to pay the recovery fund, but to enforce the great powers that we can see from you, for example, the great powers of China and Russia. For example, will the government finally release the Budapest-Belgrád railway project? Here, my fellow Member has listed a number of measures that you do not take, and they make it quite clear that the budget reserves are exhausted. On the other hand, for example, the Budapest-Belgrád railway project will only be spent this year and next year with 175 thousand new Hungarian jobs. Mr. Secretary. Your department is responsible for these classified documents. Will you finally let go of this kind investment for the Chinese and Lőrinc Mészáros companies and finally spend these resources in the interests of the Hungarian people? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-23-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, the word is really thanks. Thank you to health workers, social workers, law enforcement workers, defence workers, all those involved in defence, and those who contribute to Hungary's pandemic with the least possible casualties, we thank you for your work from here. Thank you very much, Minister, for your report. We could also say that the captain has returned to the bridge, yes, it is not the bridge of the Lady MRD in the Adriatic; it is a ministerial velvet chair. We are pleased that you are here, and we can talk again about important issues. If you are already talking about vaccinations, Minister, in the case of vaccination, it should be said that it is a matter of credibility, and in the matter of authenticity, the decisive factors in this case are the Hungarian bodies and those international bodies, in this case the EMA, so the European Medicines Agency, which says and they are able to allow a vaccine, a medicine, any active substance, to cause less harm and bring greater benefits, so it can be applied, we must believe their word. Dear Minister, I've got two things to draw your attention to. Unfortunately, in Hungary, we have discussed this recently, in the House, a reduction in health bureaucracy has taken place. One of the victims was OGYÉI, mentioned by you, and the other was the National Centre for Public Health. These were the institutions where there were serious restructurings, where practically complete classes were charged, which were practically crippled by cutting red tape, let's just say. Miraculously, these institutions were able to survive and do their job now. I would like to say and point out that we would have been able to prepare and behave well in advance if these institutions had been able to function in keeping their existing and retained knowledge. But here is another option, and this is cooperation within the European Union. There is no question of the competence and safety of the European Medicines Agency, so these are the things we can be sure of. And here's one of your main problems. For some reason, the Russian producer thought that he did not really want to cooperate with the European Medicines Agency. When we talk about whether people have reliable or have confidence in a vaccine, it is precisely on this basis that one of the most serious authorities, perhaps even one of the most important authorities in the world, who has access to vaccines, medicines, any medical devices, says something, and warns the members that it is dangerous, and that it is not a reliable background for this Russian vaccine, then the Hungarian government, but not only the Hungarian government, but all people, not only European citizens, but everyone, flashes a certain red light in their head and says that this should be treated a little more carefully. So, Minister, I also suggest that you take the recommendations of the European Medicines Agency, take their ideas and advice, believe that they are competent, that knowledge and science are on their side, and that they are not influenced by the market, but that they really decide what is effective, what is safe, and what is best for people. It is also quite clear that when we talk about such a Russian vaccine, you regularly advertised this vaccine with your own Facebook logins. Obviously, you didn't want this to be an advertisement, but you announced that you were talking to the Russians, doing your job during your illness, which, by the way, is commendable for taking the time to work during your illness. But with this, when such a Russian vaccine, which has doubts about its background, raises its recognition, it strengthens the skepticism of all other vaccinations. Therefore, it undermines the confidence in all other vaccines when a government, when official bodies vote in this way with someone or something, cannot otherwise be verified, and even its safety could not be verified, because they do not add adequate data. In England, for example, I can say that this kind of research is counterintuitive. There, updated online data on a daily basis can be used to determine where they are. The English didn't hide the fact that their vaccination was 70 percent successful, so it's 70 percent effective. This is the real transparency, even if they do something bad or less effective, they recognise that transparency is needed. That's what's missing from this shot. So what I can suggest to you, Minister, is that we cannot allow Hungary to be a laboratory in Russia. The friendship of Viktor Orbán and Putin cannot be sacrificed for the safety of the people. The safety of the Hungarian people must be chosen in each case, in the event that you have to think about vaccinations. And it is still not too late, Minister, to turn to mass testing and help people to wear masks, because these other two are effective tools that we can cope with in this epidemic. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-23-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I would like to begin by thanking healthcare workers, social institutions, law enforcement agencies, soldiers, university students, volunteers and everyone who has done a heroic job in the fight against the epidemic. I would also like to thank the Hungarian people for their compliance with the rules. I would like to thank you for taking the tightening measures seriously, and we are working together to slow down and control the spread of the epidemic. I regret that Parliament's horseshoe, the two political sides, are still separated by the fact that for us people's health is the first, and for you, political making. They even want to turn the vaccine into a political issue, while the health of Hungarian people is the first for us, while we are fighting every front and the experts are fighting to get as many, fastest and reliable vaccines as possible in Hungary. I would also like to thank the public service, the public sector workers, who are now carrying out a large amount of testing and those who are involved in the various vaccine negotiations and procurements, including those of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. [[11.40]] We've told you exactly, and they're not gonna help us fight this epidemic with the fake news you're spreading. Last time, for example, one of DK's core organizations, Jobbik, said, [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] the government is only negotiating the purchase of Russian and Chinese vaccines. Several people shared this on their social media site when we made it clear that we were negotiating with potential sources in the United States, the European Union, Israel, China, Russia and all possible sources of supply, and that we should consider all possible sources of supply. In contrast to what you are spreading as false news, and, of course, Congressman Varju is at the forefront, and for us, the issue of vaccine can only be the most secure and subject to authorisation. When a foreign authority says that a foreign manufacturer or a foreign pharmaceutical authority says that this is a good, effective vaccine, it just means that we start looking into it. What it means to us is that we take out that vaccine in the labs and they start testing it, they start testing it, they start watching it. It does not mean that the Hungarian authorities would automatically accept it. It is very important not to spread false news on this issue, because safety and people's health are the most important in this matter as well. Congressman Torda mentioned the ventilator. On my count, you are now changing your position on this issue for the third or fourth time in the last nine months. We started with too little, and then there's too much, and then in September, we're short again, and now they're talking about too much. It is time for us to come up with a point of view and not exchange their views on respirators every month. We are also happy to acknowledge and thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the arrival of another shipment of medicines from Japan, which will contribute to the care and treatment of thousands of other patients with coronary viruses. We know that this is an effective medicine, we know that for those who have been hospitalized, but do not yet have the most serious symptoms, it improves their condition in a very large proportion and reduces the strength of their symptoms. I think that's another good news. Mr Tordai said in his speech that he is quite sensitive to public money and that he likes transparency. I think it's very right, and we all have to do it. I would ask Congressman to ask his party president, mayor, how they could conclude a contract with a red baron for BKK bus tenders seven days before he set up his company to close the tender. If the congressman is so sensitive to public money, he'll go to the mayor's office and ask Gergely Christmas how something like this could have happened. I think that this is a shameful case, while we are seeing it accurately, and the Budapest notary confirmed that 99 percent of the revenues in Budapest were received in the first ten months of the year compared to last year. So, compared to 2019, in the first ten months of 2020, 99 percent of the same revenues came to the Mayor's Office among the city tax revenues. I think that we should take action from now on, honourable Member, and not acknowledge what Gergely Christmas, recognised in connection with David Doros' resignation, has chosen the job instead of the position. In doing so, they acknowledged that work in the position does not always work. It is completely unfounded that we are only discussing Eastern vaccines, since the Hungarian government has a contract with AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer for 12 million tied doses. I think that when Congressman Luke says that a vaccine is discredited by a government, a public authority, I think that this is a completely wrong idea. We can believe a vaccine if the government, the proper authorities, is on it and it's issued. I'm asking everyone, because they're free and they're volunteering for a coronal virus shot, so if you can and you can, you can get yourself vaccinated. If the Hungarian authorities have said that this is safe, then let us believe the Hungarian authorities! Once again, don't interfere with defense with false news, but help it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, After the death campaign, the opposition now committed a character murder. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for the information, and I would also like to welcome you for being cured, and you are here personally in Parliament, and you will personally provide information on how, among other things, the development of vaccines and the purchase of vaccines. Ladies and gentlemen, The opposition is under attack. Why does it make sense to attack the vaccine now, for example? Why does what they do make sense? That makes one sense. To disqualify people, to throw away the seeds of doubt among vaccines and vaccinations, the consequence of this is that fewer and fewer people will be able to rely on vaccination; despite the fact that of course all permits will be on vaccinations. What will be the consequence of a small number of vaccinations? Obviously, it will be the result of a prolonged epidemic, with further consequences; we risk or risk the lives and health of citizens, Hungarians. Not to mention that every day we spend in the epidemic is bad for the Hungarian economy. You have now also proved, for the thousandth time, that it is good for you, my honourable left-wing colleagues, what is good for the Hungarian nation, what is bad for the Hungarians, what is bad for the government. This is the reason why they are constantly attacking the purchase of ventilators, which my fellow squad leader spoke of or attacked pharmaceuticals, causing distrust of health workers, creating uncertainty against epidemiological experts. How many times Muller Cecilia was attacked very badly and undeservingly in order for citizens to lose confidence in defense. That's good for you. It's not good for anyone but you. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, We agree that the most important task of the government is to be a medically controlled and effective vaccine against the virus, and we agree that it should be introduced into the country as quickly as possible. I would also point out that our country has committed over 12 million Western vaccines. The aim is obviously to have enough vaccine for Hungarians. We support this position, and we support the need to negotiate with everyone who can provide a vaccine to Hungary. We are negotiating alongside the Union with Americans, Israelis, Russians, Chinese, of course, in order to ensure that there is a vaccine as quickly as possible, which is safe and effective. Ladies and gentlemen, This has been said by several experts that there is a thorough and strict set of conditions for a vaccine to be placed on the market. Unfortunately, it takes time, more time. Vaccines are made using different technologies; as the Chief of Staff said, Minister spoke about this. When the time is right, people will decide which one they want to be vaccinated with, based on information from the CDC. It is not about where the vaccine comes from and what nationality the development is, but about what results it produces. The vaccine should therefore be obtained from as many sources as possible. It is shocking, by the way, that the Democratic Coalition wants to prevent people from getting a vaccine. They will override the measures taken by the epidemiological experts and will continue to prevent protection. They claimed that the Hungarian government asked for samples of the vaccine against the Russian coronal virus, which science knows nothing about because of the Russian government's secrecy. I would like to ask the left to leave the scientific approach to the vaccine to professionals. Once again, I stress that only vaccines that are effective and safe will be available to the public. Ladies and gentlemen, The vaccine is not a political issue, but a health and epidemiological issue. The person who makes a policy out of vaccine procurement with the lives of Hungarian people [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He's playing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó, who obviously wants to take this opportunity within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-11-23-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you personally, of course, for your good wishes. As I have already indicated, human gestures came from unexpected places, which may have been a little expensive to experience, but they certainly felt good. [[11.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that Hungarian Members of Parliament should have a genuine confidence in those Hungarian professionals who, in this extremely difficult situation, are doing responsible work related to public health and public health. So the sentence that we have no doubt about the decisions of the European Medicines Agency has, unfortunately, now continued in this circle without leaving very much to the Hungarian authorities. I find that an inappropriate, I might say, shameful attitude. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right!]] I ask you, with all due respect, to trust those Hungarian professionals who do the work under the law, which requires them to decide whether a vaccine coming to Hungary complies with Hungarian legislation, they can be safely administered to Hungarian people, and if there are several types of vaccine that the European and Hungarian authorities say is safe, effective, then I think we should leave it to the Hungarian people to decide which vaccine they intend to administer to themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, No one on the government side has lobbied for any vaccine. We do our job, we conclude contracts with European and partly US manufacturers, and we constantly look for the possibility that if there is a faster and at the same time safe solution, with which I fully agree, or a safe but faster solution, we can also offer it as a choice for the Hungarian people. And that is why I would like to underline once again that a non-political and non-business lobby will decide which vaccine will be authorised to use in Hungary. I would also like to tell you that the group, mass testing started on Friday, we are testing 370 thousand people several times in the coming weeks, in the country 16 691 sites in the healthcare, social sector and education systems. For the testing of crèches and public education institutions, thousands of sampling teams have been developed across the country, including medical students. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we also agree that this epidemic not only means the life and health of Hungarian people, but also puts the workplaces of Hungarian people at risk. And there was a debate between us about whether we should take this issue on the basis of aid or employment. We have decided to provide the Hungarian people with jobs in order to enable them to make a long-term, predictable living. We have therefore launched a programme in which we have given support to investments by companies that have committed themselves not to dismiss anyone, because that is the most important thing: we are protecting the jobs of Hungarian people. I respectfully inform you that 975 companies operating in Hungary have decided to invest a total of HUF 629 billion to protect 215 thousand jobs, with which the government has provided HUF 272 billion in support, because this is the solution. The solution is to give Hungarian people the opportunity to work and work. In view of the success of the programme, we have decided to launch today another HUF 50 billion programme for companies operating in Hungary, which can receive up to EUR 800 thousand in line with the European Union's rules if they are able to make sure that they do not have to fire any Hungarian people. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-18	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Sándor Burány, from the Group of the Dialogue, asked for a speech entitled: on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It is an old and true Hungarian proverb that what you can do today should not be postponed until tomorrow. I would like to tell you that we have been demanding for weeks, recommending here in Parliament, that free and mass testing be introduced throughout the country. Do so in order to make the nature of the epidemic as clear as possible, in terms of its prevalence, and to close as few jobs and institutions as possible. It is easy to see that the number of contacts can be radically reduced in two ways. One way is, and that's pretty much what the government has been up to, every time they've made a move to shut everything down, and then they can't meet anyone, it's healthy with the patient, but it's healthy with the healthy. The other possible way is to find and find by testing those who have become ill or at least infected, even if they do not show symptoms of the disease. If we order those who are contagious, then there is no need to limit everyone else in their activities, work, cultural institutions, to keep them at home, not to those who have caught the virus indiscriminately. You have denied the need for this for weeks. This morning, Viktor Orbán said that the launch of mass targeted testing is the great defense action of the week. What if our proposals had been adopted earlier? It is true that although the proposal has only been partially adopted, we welcome the step that, at least in part, but for those working on the front line in health care, social institutions, schools, they will finally carry out a free and mass-wide test so that at least they, among them, can see the extent of the epidemic. It's half-baked, under the circumstances, that's something to be happy about. But why don't you go on, Your Honours Secretary of State, Honourable House? It is enough to look around the world, in Europe, west and north of us, in Slovakia and Austria, to test the entire population. Why don't they make the tests mass and free, accessible to everyone? If, unfortunately, this is a lifelike example of the child becoming covidos, then it should not simply be the solution that anyone who can remain in voluntary quarantine at home, but the family can test themselves for free, wondering how many members have become infected. After all, if they try to do this test on a private basis and choose the most official test, not the quick tests, this is still almost a hundred thousand forints in the case of a family of four. It is clear that a large number of Hungarian families simply do not have enough money for this. It is the right thing to do, though, to make the vaccine free, but why make it free? Why is prevention not so important to you that testing, testing, which would be the best way to prevent, prevent the spread of the epidemic, will make it free for all Hungarian citizens? But for some reason, you're not willing to do that. They're going to walk like masks: now on the debut president and me, who I'm talking about, there's no mask, but on everyone else, there's a mask in the room, properly, mutatis mutandis and obligated. In the spring, you in the choir denied the importance of this with the operational tribe and the government. We are now at the point where armed soldiers are being deployed just to feel the concern, to comply with this regulation, that the mask is also mandatory in public areas. Don't wait till tomorrow. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has just told us that, at best, any vaccine we choose can, of course, be a vaccine in February or March at the earliest, after the necessary tests have been carried out. [[12.00]] Why wait for free mass testing to begin tomorrow? If the government is already partially determined, why doesn't it go further, why doesn't it allow the whole population to be tested as much as possible [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Should we stop the tragic consequences of this epidemic? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-23-20	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-11-23-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to respond to two main points: the first is health and the second is the economic area, even though you have mentioned the latter in a smaller extent. About testing. The government and the public authorities carry out the tests on the basis of international procedures, on the basis of recommendations from professionals. We've talked about the fact that the WHO protocol has an unavoidable role to play here. So far, 1 million 518 thousand tests have been carried out, and what is equally important, they have been carried out free of charge against your claims. Mass testing has started in health institutions, social institutions, schools, kindergartens. The latter affects 370,000 people alone. Paramedics already have a rapid test, which may otherwise be supplemented by a PCR test. Filter buses are also on duty, and they're all over the country. And as far as prices are concerned, unlike other countries, there is an official price for PCR tests, which is also an attempt to prevent profiteering by the government. Once again, there is no such safety net in other countries. Now, about the economic issues. We also need to protect jobs, and perhaps we agree on that. This is why taxes have been reduced; that is why the government has extended the moratorium; that is why there is compensation for accommodation workers after missing guest nights; and that is why there is 50 percent wage support for restaurants and I can continue to do so. Unfortunately, not everyone shares this approach, because if we look at the proposals and partly actions of left-wing parties, then there is a completely different direction. Rather than targeted help and tax cuts, they are on the path of austerity. Let's take a look at City Hall: they're thinking about raising taxes again. But I suggest we also look at the local level, so let's also look at the individual municipalities, the individual districts, what the situation is, what the route has been chosen. Annex VIII is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. in the district, they collect 170 million bucks from yoga towners, about 10,000 forints from each family. The mayor of Hódmezővásárhely will pay the farmers around 70-80 million and raise the child's meal fee. Then the VII. In the district, they want to sacrifice parking revenues, all under cover of the plague. There is one thing we would like to ask, honourable Member, when these decisions are taken, not to pin them on the government, not to point fingers at the government. But one thing they still have the energy to do, even at a time of left-wing austerity, to put back into operation the money pumps already installed before 2010. Well, let's look at hundreds of millions of bus tenders. They were able to bring out a company that didn't exist at the time of the announcement, and it didn't exist! Honourable Congressman, Is that true? Have you looked into the background of this company? If they've been looking into it, how is it possible that you've been assigned? Now I see that all kinds of principles have been formulated for the future. This should not be a bet for the future, but a clear explanation of how such a decision could have been made. It's not worth lying low as a one-time mayor behind his own Facebook page. In any case, we see one thing: in this team Miklós Hagyó could practically be an intern. And we do not know that it is in connection with this scandal, but one of the deputy mayors has recently left, and in his praise you have said that with this resignation he chose the job instead of the position. Now, in this way, they have issued a certificate of what we have felt all these months, that they are not holding the worker's end of the city staff, they are using the citizens' mandate for something quite different. And they also told me that by the time they're ready for 2022, they're dealing with the election campaign. So, while the whole country is fighting against the virus, the left has started to fight for campaign money, candidates, national lists and headlines. Notice, Your Honour, that this is not the place for this. And it is difficult to decide what is more serious: to operate on restrictions or to deal with elections instead of meaningful action. Either way, in difficult days, in difficult times, you can measure who you can and can't count on. You can't go to the left again. For once in your life, they could prove you're not in this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We're right, so do it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-22	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. What is more important? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, While nearly a hundred Hungarians die every day in the coronal virus epidemic, the government is busy with reducing the concept of public money at the basic law level, and with the result of the decades of work of the Hungarian people, organizing further hundreds of billions of Fidesz private foundations. For example, the chairman of one of these foundations is also the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office. This also shows what the government's aim is about: it is clear that the privatization of public funds is taking place with steam and the rewriting of the laws before the 2022 elections. They hope on the current government side that the funds of the Hungarian people will be permanently embedded in their foundations, because as soon as we have the opportunity, we will recover the state's wealth, the people's money for the people, and everyone involved in the outsourcing and privatisation of public wealth will be held accountable. And instead of really dealing with the crisis, instead of keeping people's safety in mind, the government can afford only so much that by machining the business tax they try to put city governments in a difficult position, ignoring the interests of the people. Because until then, the idea fair will no longer spread to propose unsolved problems of funding public tasks from government tellers for decades. You've been ruling for ten years, and you've still reached petty machinations. And they are adding it, because in today's crisis, they continue to risk making it difficult, for example, to get healthy drinking water for people, and the frequent pipe breaks that have already made their lives even more bitter. For example, water utility services could go bankrupt in the country. For example, we have just read about one of the large service providers that has reached the limit of their functionality. The availability and quality of public services is falling in many places. For example, Posta, having difficulty seeing its future, is now fleeing into a bank network, supported by significant forces, so that people can remain a service, while in the background there is the usual team of national capitalists, including the Mészáros Lőrinc. By releasing the business tax, they also endanger public transport, public lighting, water supply, basic health care, kindergarten, day care, the operation, condition of local roads and the operation of public cemeteries. So it would be good to wake up now that this policy is not working, and this policy is at the expense of people. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in these settlements, in these cities, your voters are also there, but I think, by the way, there should be no question of who is a voter, the operation of public services must be ensured. And, of course, the government is like the Bourbons: they learned nothing and forgot nothing. And here would have been the opportunity to consider at least now the wrong economic policy and to develop a completely new model, but of course you have not done so, but you are going on the path that is based solely on keeping wages low on the country's competitiveness, and your support is almost exclusively given to multinational companies and national capitals appointed by the government. And it is already natural to continue to serve multi-interest interests, as the government not only grants them many times as support for creating a job as a domestic SME, but even by a government decree, vocational training is subject only to the interests of these large companies. If they really wanted to help domestic SMEs and workers, they would pay a normal amount of wage allowances to workers in distress; they would reduce or release the social contribution tax for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; they would also provide a zero-percent or non-refundable loan for individual enterprises. [[12.10]] They would not spend taxpayers' money to support multinationals, but rather to support domestic SMEs, extend the period of unemployment benefit to 9 months, increase the amount of unemployment benefit, and replace the losses of local authorities rather than further looting them, as they know local businesses and can help them most effectively. Instead, the idea of a business tax is continuing, but it is also that the government does not even dare to take on its own proposal, evidently knowing what kind of uproar this would trigger, and rather asking the President of the Chamber of Friends to promote the idea of looting local governments. So it is worth clarifying that the waiver of business tax is good for multinationals and large companies only, not for anyone else, not for people or for domestic SMEs. In view of all of this, there is a legitimate question of what is more important to you: people or fear of losing power.
u2020-11-23-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, responds. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He was talking about public finances, public wealth. I'm in the less fortunate position of being older than you, and I can look back on the operation of your principled friends. You're from the benches of the MSZP, so I'd like to compare some of the points. [[Márta Demeter: There must be no answer!]] , precisely because of what you have represented, what you have actually done in these areas, in which you fortunately listed it, as if you wanted to provide me with a raiser match to compare the activities, to show you a mirror of what you have done, what you have done. He mentioned the question of foundations. I am reminded of the case of MOL, whose significant stock market was sold on a dark night on the London Stock Exchange, or rather in a day-hour package for 11 thousand forints at the time of the finance minister of Draskovics. Then this stock package was somehow circling, circling the world, but there was an Austrian experiment where the enemy acquisition was attempted by OMV, and then somehow ended up on the Russian side of the square, and for serious billions, the Orbán government had to buy it back after 2010. You're talking about squandering public money, squandering public wealth when we buy back the state assets you've just squandered. He mentioned the role of the post office. At the post office, you started a decommissioning process where the post offices were closed in rural settlements, and we are doing everything we can to save the post offices, to protect the jobs that are in the post office. I'm sure the mailmen can compare your actions to what's happening here. He mentioned the issue of drinking water, that drinking water is not of sufficient quality, even though we are now striving for a uniform service so that Hungarians can obtain healthy drinking water everywhere for the same amount. You wanted to sell, and you sold the drinking water suppliers in part. Let's just think about the company in Budapest. We remember the problems in Pécs. We also remember that there were problems in Brno, too, not only in Hungary. [[Intercoms from the LMP lines.]] I can see your memory's coming up. [[Defiance.]] Therefore, it is worth mentioning these matters. So they remember these moments, so to speak, from the past, which allow for comparison. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He mentioned kindergartens, nursery schools. If I wanted to talk about crèches from 90, then again we can conclude that this was the area that was most neglected, population policy was neglected, family tax relief was abolished after 2002 and the housing support system was abolished, driving hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families into foreign currency loans. So it's very strange to me why you guys are bringing up these issues when you have nothing to boast about in this area. He mentioned the question of rural roads. If you look at the Hungarian village programme, you can see that in the following year there are huge amounts of money available for the roads of the small settlements, the 3-4-5-digit routes to which you could only get from pothole to pothole, so to speak, in the last decades. The process of catching up with Western Europe has finally begun, so that life can also be lived in the countryside from a transport point of view. We voted for HUF 250 billion in next year's budget for these rural development programmes, and I note that you did not vote for them, which represent a greater amount than this year. Well, the other thing about the Bourbons, I thought of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Deficiencies from LMP and DK.]] I don't see any aristocrat lines, though. He's doing the same thing he was doing before 90, what they did during the Horn government, what they did between 2002 and 2010. The fact that he's so color-changing, and he's gonna be able to say a fall speech again, that they didn't think they were completely lying in the morning, in the night, in the evening, if I quote the sentences correctly, I'm gonna try to skip this South all the time so they don't accuse me of inaccuracies. He's talking to us about vocational training. You have reduced vocational training so that when the children finished, they did not get a profession in school. They had to get the VET paper in an OKJ course, so that after years of school, they had a paper that they could put their hands on. Unemployment, you're practically talking about wages here. We raised the wages, reduced the taxes, and eliminated unemployment, instead of the previous 3 million 600 thousand jobs, there are 4 million 500 000 jobs in this country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-26	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group has applied:. Who gave you permission to do so? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-23-27	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Let me begin with a brief example. Imagine the situation in the kitchen in the morning, sitting at the table, and the head of the family, let's say, the father announces that he's indebted to the family. Family members, who have been hearing for months that everything is in perfect order with regard to the family's financial situation, find out, out of the blue, that the head of the family has indebted them in foreign currency for the next 30 years, and without asking them, even though he said earlier that nothing was wrong. Then, overnight, early in the morning, he announces that he has taken on a giga loan, and has already spent some of it on personal pleasures, yachts, and toy trains. Would you do this to your family, honourable Member, with your wife, your husband, your children, that you will be indebted to them for 30 years without a word or a speech? Would they? Because, Mr. Secretary, you did. They did it to all the families! That's why I'm asking, because you did it to every single Hungarian family. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, a traitor to the dreaded fake enemy of international capital and the Hungarian freedom fighter against foreign exchange loans, announced early last Friday that Hungary had taken on a HUF 900 billion giga loan, thus putting the country on the table in the past tense. Friday morning, the Hungarian people, drugged with lies, woke up to pay Viktor Orbán's big loan for the next 30 years. Between 80 and 90 thousand forints each from the newborn to the great-grandmother, through them who live in this country, everyone. From Thursday morning to Friday morning, the country was in debt under cover of night, the biggest secret debt to our country. But hold on a second. Let me ask you who authorized you to do this. When did you ask the people? In which national consultation was the question asked: do you want Fidesz to sell the country for 30 years? I don't remember that billboard where people decided to pay Orbán's big loan for 30 years. Of course, we know very well why not. You didn't ask anyone about this, and no one gave you permission to do so. You betrayed the country with this hidden giga loan, as you did when the bank's loan of HUF 4000 billion was issued, Paks II. The Russian loan of 3000 billion has been signed, or the 1000 billion loan on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line has been carried out in the same way. So it is no wonder that in the last ten years of Fidesz government, the state's debt went from 20,000 to 32,000 billion forints. [[12.20]] If what you're doing doesn't make any sense anymore, I'm not really asking, but what I have to do is let me ask you what you're using it for. What is the HUF 900 billion loan needed for in the country where, unlike Europe, there is no meaningful job protection? What do we need another 900 billion forints of giga credit in the country, where the unemployed do not receive any extraordinary help from the state, what do we need the credit for where there is no double family allowance to survive, and there is no immediate support for pensioners? So there is no help for families in the months of crisis. Why do we need the money, honourable Members, if not for the Hungarians' problems, because not for them, we can see it very well. You did not give a penny to the Hungarian people in the crisis. Why did they cheat them in debt for 30 years and do it instead of serious things? It would have led to this, by the way, if the European Union had refused to give you any more money without being bound by the rule of law, because that is obviously the reason for all this. Instead of accepting the EU billion-dollar subsidies for Hungary, they could not be stolen, they vetoed and took on a big loan, with incomparably worse conditions. Half of the EU crisis management package should never be repaid, and even its interest rates are very favourable, but it didn't matter to you, you vetoed and hired a much worse one. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-23-28	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When the Gyurcsány party raises the issue of debt, it is very easy to come to a short conclusion, and that is, no. Oh, no. [[László Varju, showing a page showing a table: Here you are, Minister! 20,000 and 32,000!]] We can talk about debt, but I'm asking you not to do it from the Gyurcsány party. It was you who pushed the government debt from 50 percent to over 80 percent. It was you who sold most of the Hungarian industry for tobacco. It was you who had to take over only HUF 1400 billion of debt from the municipalities after the government. The foreign exchange exposure has been reduced by this government from about 60 percent to nearly 20 percent, so now our exposure, our risk is much lower than at your time. At your time, the IMF is virtually all that remains of this country, with all its economic and political demands. That was a dead end. Then we would like to ask one thing with respect: do not lecture on the issue of public debt. As far as the Brussels debate is concerned, there is a big debate, yes. What's this about? Firstly, a new seven-year budget should be agreed, a new recovery fund should also be agreed. Now, we do not need this recovery fund in the first place, but those southern states where public debt is now above 100 percent and unemployment is around 20 percent. Nevertheless, while they need help, they insist in Brussels that a new extortion procedure is in place, with which EU funds can be permanently hanged on a public announcement basis. They say rule of law, but we know that in practice it means ideological conditions, ideological pressure on immigration, they want more immigration. For example, let us look at the cases that have been brought in the past few years. Look at October, for example. We were pulled out because we had to apply for asylum at foreign representations, after they decided otherwise in Brussels that the transit zone had to be abolished. They do not even accept the application for asylum at foreign representations, they insist on entering the territory of Hungary. I would also like to draw your attention to the context that these have been addressed to the rule of law, but in fact ideological pressures have multiplied since 2015, when the migration debate is with us more intensively. It shows what's really going on. Hungary will not change its immigration policy, when it comes to the security of the country, we will certainly go to the wall and to the veto. As far as your attitude is concerned, I find it quite scandalous that the left-wing parties have once again turned the campaign against their own country into a turbo. That's the thing. To a degree I don't think we've ever seen before. They are spreading embarrassing letters again, sending them to the EU institutions, and they are openly lobbying for less EU funding for Hungary. Just like Soros wrote in his resolution last week. So much for having a plan or not, anyway. Moreover, the title of that resolution says more than anything else, saying that action must be taken against Hungary and Poland. He is not talking about governments, he is talking about Hungary and Poland. Well, that settles the argument about who they're trying to hurt. With the new blackmail procedure, they don't want to hurt the government, they want to hurt the whole country, and everyone who doesn't want the liberals to destroy Europe on ideological issues. It is quite sad that there are not any left-wing parties here that would say not to do so. Who would say that even though he has issues with the government, he won't be campaigning against the country. Honourable Congressman, For most of the time, we see that you always find the adjustment point in foreign capitals, adapt to their interests, meet their expectations and applaud their sentences from politicians to liberal actors. That's the thing. I know it's hard to get away from the spirit of the place at the Little Fork, but for once in your life, try to find out what it's like to stand next to your own country. He'll have disputes, but believe me, it's worth it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of Group, MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the current issues. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Now that it's come to light that George Clooney is making a deal with Soros against Hungary [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] I have some respectful questions for the secretary of state sitting here. Now you're satisfied, are you proud of yourselves? They have brought Hungary into such shame that the world rarely sees. How is it that Viktor Orbán rather renounces billions of euros for the development of Hungary, just because he is asked to have independent justice, independent courts, and to make the spending of EU funds verifiable? How is it that Viktor Orbán takes market credit from abroad, worth HUF 900 billion, instead of accepting the rule of law conditions, so that Hungary can obtain the EU's recovery fund? Oh, you can't steal that the way it used to be. The Hungarian Prime Minister spectacularly refuses the values that we all share together. Doesn't the skin burn off their faces? Ladies and gentlemen, Let us be clear: whoever is against the rule of law and European values is against the interests of Hungary and against the Hungarian people. What they are doing is quite simply unacceptable, betraying the Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, While your party president has been pursuing his own power goals in Europe, he has still failed to deal with the epidemic at home. Today we're talking about the death of a fellow countryman every 15 minutes in a coronal virus infection. We're talking about thousands of people losing their jobs every day, or they're gonna have to close the store. We are saying that a month before Christmas, on the threshold of winter, there are hundreds of thousands of people without a living because they have already become unemployed and Europe's narrowest job search support lasts for up to three months. Ladies and gentlemen, You have done nothing to protect these hundreds of thousands. We've been saying for weeks that the plague has to be stopped, people can't be left without money. We submitted it to the National Assembly, they have nothing else to do but vote in favour of our proposal for a hundred percent sick leave. The reason the virus is spreading in the workplace is because people are afraid that only 60 percent of their income will be taken as sick. That's why they're going to work sick. That's why we're recommending that people on all fronts get a hundred percent sick leave, who are confirmed to remain at home with coronal viral symptoms. No one goes to work sick in a good mood, but because he is afraid of material loss. People are partners in prevention if we help them. [[12.30]] You're in a position to make a decision. They have all the means to act, so get started. Begin immediate and mass testing, rigorous contact research. Give 100 percent of the sick to those who have been certified by the GP to show coronal viral symptoms and be quarantined. Give me 80% wage support to preserve jobs. Increase the amount of job search support to a minimum of HUF 100,000 per month and pay it to people who have lost their jobs for nine months. Double the family allowance, the family support, the child, the amount of the child. Give a decent living pension to all elderly people. Ladies and gentlemen, In one year, 72 thousand of our retired countrymen have fallen below the poverty threshold; currently nearly 300,000 Hungarians who are retired live below the poverty threshold. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, I would ask you not to introduce, at this time of crisis, that austerity measure to 120,000 tax entrepreneurs, which you are planning now, rather talk to your home oligarchs, so that what they have stolen so far will be returned some of it. And leave people alone at least in times of crisis. That's the most important thing right now. If you're dealing with someone else, you're betraying people. As long as the country's in trouble, that's all we should be talking about here in Parliament. For our future, for Hungary!
u2020-11-23-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Schanda wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, George Clooney is an excellent actor, and he's doing his part right now. Honourable Congressman, Let me also talk about and respond to what you have said here about EU funds and EU borrowing. Honourable Congressman, The truth is that it is always surprising when they want to debate EU funds from the Socialist Party. We ask and wonder what they would finally say about where those billions of forints were lost from metro 4; where the resources of the EMIR scandal disappeared; why they treated EU development resources under their governance as they dealt with catastrophic and total lameness. Honourable Congressman, The system you operated at the time was amateur, irresponsible, corrupt, and bad. This system had to be changed by the national civilian government after the 2010 change. Honourable Congressman, It is also an interesting situation, and that is what has already been said in Parliament today, that when it comes to the rule of law, it is now clear and clear that today in Brussels only the country that allows migrants to enter its home country is regarded as a rule of law; the state that protects its borders and protects its country from migration is no longer a rule of law in Brussels. Honourable Congressman, Moreover, the criticism and comment on this is always strange from the left, and it is particularly strange from the mouth of you, the representative of the MSZP, because it is the people who are trying to lecture the national civil side on this question, who are, how should I put it? They slowly learned the rule of law. Honourable Congressman, You are the successors of the Communists, you are the party that operated a dictatorship in Hungary, the heirs of that party. And you want to give us any advice on matters of the rule of law? Honourable Congressman, You are the party that destroyed peaceful protests in Budapest in 2006. So there was no problem? Not to you or to Brussels? [[Péter Ungár: Of course...]] Is it really possible that you, who have been acting this way for the past decades, have come from here and started from here, should call on freedom fighters for the rule of law? Is that really the case? Honourable Congressman, The real thing is, it's clear what's going on. It is about the fact that in Brussels, and you, your snipers at home, want to link the various EU funds to support migration. Honourable Congressman, We also need to talk about the fact that the Hungarian government's position was also consistent and clear. Over the summer, we said what we thought about the EU budget, what we thought about the recovery fund, and we followed the agreements there. We didn't change it, we didn't change our mind. It is not that the Hungarian government's position has changed. And we have also said over the summer that we do not like common European borrowing, we consider it dangerous, we do not need it, but in the spirit of common solidarity, we will do so if necessary. However, we would also like this to be not about ideological debates, but about how to overcome the health and economic effects of the epidemic. And what are we meeting with? We are meeting with it, and you are attacking it, that when we prove that we really do not need common European borrowing because Hungary can be financed, unlike your governance, you are attacking it. Because as long as you have to run to the IMF because no one else has given you credit, in Hungary bonds can be sold in the way they can be sold in a normally functioning country. Honourable Congressman, That's a compliment, what you're saying. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-34	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group asked for an address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-23-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the coronal virus epidemic, and let me begin by saying what we all do in this House: thank you very much to those health, social and police workers, everyone who is working in the public service, to give people the opportunity to defend themselves successfully in Hungary and to avoid the epidemic, the unexpected effects and the unexpected consequences, and to thank them for their work. It is also very important to do so now that we appreciate a little situation. We are going through a series of tightenings in Hungary, and although it is not visible yet, as it may not even be scientifically visible, it should be revealed within days that the initial tightenings have had an impact on the spread of the epidemic and have managed to contain it in some way. In the meantime, we know one thing for sure, and it is safe to say: unfortunately Hungary produces one of the worst numbers, even the worst number, in proportion to the 100,000 people who are active in the region. This shows that there is a serious problem in Hungary, and everyone is working hard in health care, in law enforcement as well. But it also has to be said in this regard, since it is an assessment of the situation, that the high number of infected people and the number of deaths, which, unfortunately, set a record during the weekend for two consecutive days, were largely because Viktor Orbán allowed the virus to dictate the pace. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] ; he allowed the virus to dictate the pace that Hungarian health care, which Hungarian people couldn't handle, and now we're at a point where at this rate, since we can't keep up with the pace, everyone has to make very serious sacrifices. It's safe to say that it doesn't seem like there was any battle plan. This is shown by the lack of organisation of screenings, the failure to introduce free and wide-ranging testing, the lack of assistance from the Maskbeard rules, so the lack of people's help, everything shows that Viktor Orbán rather let the virus dictate the pace. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to see that you wish to pass on responsibility to everyone, to the population, to the opposition, to the authorities, to other bodies. But the thing is, the government has an important responsibility to control the epidemic. In fact, now that we're at it, it's a lot worse than that that the mayor of Szarvas Fidesz put it like this in a TV interview, and then, if it turns out that someone's covid because he has his test or he's in quarantine, he's got to be treated like a leper. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[György Szilágyi: Shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen, This is one of your Fidesz party mates, and it's also an ex-member of Parliament, mayor, who you've never apologized for. [[12.40]] They didn't look people in the eye once, and they didn't say that Michael Babak was wrong, and he touched people unsubstantiatedly, hurtfully, insultingly, in a way and words that didn't have a place in the public discourse; I repeat, if it turns out to be covidos, then he should be treated as a leper. We were wondering why we didn't see any articles on hirado.hu. Why didn't Lőrinc Nacsa or István Hollik or anyone on Fidesz' side stand out, because these are KDNP representatives, anyone on Fidesz' side, and he apologized for it, even Péter Szijjártó this morning? Unlike Fides, the country as a whole believes that anyone who has become covid sick is a man who needs to be rescued, cured, and valued. They are the same citizens, the same fellow citizens of this country, parents, children, and they cannot be branded. And let's talk about another amazing attitude. Meanwhile, you, waiting for the opportunity to do so, thought that you would turn Hungary into a Russian lab. You want to bring a Russian vaccine to Hungary, which has an opaque background, which is uncontrollable, and this is your foreign minister. It is quite clear that the European Medicines Agency has said that a vaccine with such a background, which has not been proven to be effective, which cannot be reviewed, is not transparent in its operation, and, as you said, it is not so long ago in this House, they are still halfway through the third stage... well, you want to sell such a vaccine to the Hungarian people and submit it. What is really important: there is a need for vaccination in Hungary, come from anywhere, which is safe, which is suitable to control the epidemic and which is accepted by the Hungarian people. But by forcing people to be vaccinated with a Russian vaccine, they will undermine the credibility of the entire vaccine because it is a completely uncertain, uncontrollable vaccine. Finally, it should be said that due to the good friendship between Orbán and Putin, Hungarians should not be put at risk. The European Union does not advise this vaccination, Orbán and Putin have said, "Who can we believe?" Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-36	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-11-23-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I think it is important that another false news which you are spreading here, Congressman, should be disproved immediately. He followed in the footsteps of Szabó Timea, we can remember, he said that most people in Hungary die in the world in a corona virus, which was a false news, and was denied by everyone. And you said here today in Parliament that, if you look at the surrounding countries or look at the whole region, Hungary shows the worst data in proportion to the infected population per 100,000 inhabitants. [[Dr. László György Lukács: That's right!]] That's what you said here five minutes ago, Your Honour. Then let's see what's real about the fake news that you claim to be a politician here in Parliament, a health politician on the left. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Isn't that you?]] In Hungary this number is 1787, in neighbouring Romania 2126, in Poland 2221, in Croatia 2463, in Austria 2719, in Slovenia 3089, in the Czech Republic 4608. The numbers are the ones that always contradict you, in each case. The fake news guys on the left can be caught faster than the lame dog. Because these are numbers, Your Honour. And as a representative of the Hungarian Parliament, you do not say that Hungary is successfully defending, that some countries have better numbers, some have worse numbers, but that Hungarian data is nearly one and a half times the European average, and, thank God, Hungary has fewer infected people per hundred thousand inhabitants, but just like Szabó Timea, you stand up in Parliament, and he says that the worst number of dead people worldwide is the worst, you said that the number of infected in the surrounding countries and Central Europe is the worst. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Mark your sources!]] While you, honourable Member, can always be disproved by numbers. You are obviously extremely upset and outraged because you had a business in the past, medical exports, and by raising the wages of doctors and nurses in Hungary...from January to double the wages of doctors and, in four years, 72 percent of the wages of nurses, this business seems to be in jeopardy, which is very close to your heart. After all, as of January, there will be no new doctor who will earn less than 481,000 forints. Then from 2022 it will rise to 619 thousand forints, and from 1 January 2023 to 687,000 forints. While a doctor with a past of four decades, which is already at the top of his career, will not be able to make less than HUF 1 million and HUF 666 thousand next year, this will rise to HUF 2 million and HUF 142 thousand from 2022 to HUF 2 million and HUF 380 thousand from 1 January 2023. That is what annoys you in an extraordinary way, honourable Member, because the business that you have been involved in will indeed be in decline in Hungary. Because there is no other country, there is no other country across Europe, or even worldwide, who defends himself against the coronal virus epidemic by saying that doctors pay off... before whom I speak to my hat, to any of my acquaintances, or to anyone who has actually been hospitalized there, everyone says with their hats off to the Hungarian doctors, hat off to the Hungarian nurses, what they do in the hospital against a disease that is only growing information about every day. They did not learn from textbooks, university, college, what to do exactly as a doctor or nurse against this virus, but they are fighting there, they are doing there, and Hungary recognises their activities by, among other things, doubling their wages, the wages of doctors, and significantly increasing the wages of health workers and workers, honourable Member. And on the other hand, all you do is attack defense and make false news. And you're making false news about the vaccine. Honourable Congressman, Would you take responsibility if there were vaccines available worldwide that were about similar to the coronal virus epidemic, and one Russian, the other American, the third Israeli or European, or any other, and you would say that if all of them were effective, all of them would be available, you would not bring the Russian into Hungary to protect the health of Hungarian people just because he is Russian? Honourable Congressman, In addition, in the KGB's party, you say that, despite being as efficient as one or another, you will only accept it if it is authorised by a European central body, honourable Member. [[Dr. László György Lukács: If there is evidence...]] Before the agenda, you said in full unanimous choir from Jobbik to DK: don't let the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority examine these vaccines, let Hungary give up on the part of its sovereignty that the Hungarian authority will examine the coronal virus vaccine for the Hungarian people; let us raise our hands to the European authority, who will decide what is good vaccine for us Hungarians. [[György Szilágyi: He did not say that!]] Moreover, he was in complete contradiction in the first half of his own speech, and when he spoke in favour of OGYI, honourable Member. This cannot be done, the Hungarian people rely most on Hungarian vaccines, but it is absolutely necessary for the Hungarian authority, we cannot give up the activities of the Hungarian authority and the pharmaceutical authority. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-38	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, on behalf of the KDNP Group, spoke before the agenda, President of the Judicial Committee. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-39	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the Soros Plan, Brussels wants to force us, under the cover of the rule of law, to live with whom and with whom we Hungarians do not live. In fact, we are now at the risk of being threatened by the Soros-led BSS, the Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros-triumvirate, spreading unscrupulous lies about us to destroy Hungary. We want to build and they want to destroy. [[Dr. László György Lukács: What about the dementors?]] Ladies and Gentlemen, It's not an unusual phenomenon, but it's reached a level we haven't seen before. In the last ten years, we've experienced several times that while we were building, they were destroying. But we have never seen anything like this, only our parents and grandparents have seen it, who have experienced the raging of the Nazi and Communist dictatorship. We were right to believe that dictatorships had already vanished into the trash heap of history. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You will rebuild it, and you will hope for it.]] But that's not true, because the BSS Triumvirate is building a dictatorship. A dictatorship in which they want to rip apart our thousand-year-old Hungarian identity. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] ; dictatorship is not pleasing to Jobbik, in which they want to devour our freedom; dictatorship, in which we can be slaves in both spiritual and material terms. Ladies and Gentlemen, They're trying to force an open society like Soros on us. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: So is Jobbik!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: So is Jobbik!]] they only consider the rule of law to be the one who lets immigrants in. [[12.50]] For them, the rule of law is equal to support for illegal immigration and LGBTQ. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] They don't take kindly to the fact that we love our country. They don't take kindly to our insistence on our Christian values, so they're asking us for Marxist-liberal political considerations, Christians. In other words, we are not asked to comply with the EU Treaty under the rule of law, but to give up our national Christian values at last. They demand that we switch to the dark side, because if we switch, they won't take money from us, and they won't question our rule of law any more. But we resist, against the left-wing parties, MSZP, DK, Jobbik, Dialogue, LMP, which have already conquered and constantly submit to Brussels, for example last week, also last Thursday, when, as part of the Soros plan, left-wing parties turned together to Brussels, betraying Hungary, betraying Hungarians. Ladies and Gentlemen, The fact is that there is an open attack on Hungary against our thousands of years of national Christian values. The leader of the open attack is the BSS Triumvirate led by Soros, which cynically crosses the truth, slandering and threatening the Hungarians and Hungary. They want Europe's national Christian roots to be completely wiped out. A new instrument has now been invented to enforce this: blackmailing that only a country that allows immigrants to enter its borders would take away our money from Hungary and even from punishment. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Bond! The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, There's a limit to everything. It is a disgrace that the Imperial Storm Team with Soros' conduct does not rest in the midst of the plague. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Bravo!]] They want to create an EU institution that would force our country to break down the fence and let migrants in by simply voting majority. But remember this. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] No matter how they conspire against us, even the Jobbik faction...
u2020-11-23-40	Ladies and gentlemen, Glee Club, please. Thank you. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-23-41	But note in Brussels and the Jobbik faction that no matter how they conspire against us, you and your left-wing parties will not break us with either money or with so-called article 7 as a nuclear bomb. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] 'Cause we're still on our own. Whatever they do to us, Hungary will be our first. Go, Hungarians! Go, Hungary! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Invitations from Jobbik, among them: Long live the Party!]]
u2020-11-23-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We're asking for more seriousness. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, If I may begin from a distance: I remember that in 1990, although I was a very small child, euphoria, freedom and hope were reflected throughout the country. Of course, no one thought that all our problems would go on in one stroke, we did not expect or expected that the destruction of 40 years of communism, our ever-increasing lag from Western states, could be worked out in a few years. Therefore, the feeling of hope and freedom, I think, was addressed to someone else; that, although we have difficulties, as a respected state of the free world, we can take our fate into our own hands: if we make mistakes, it is our fault, if we do the right thing, then we have the credit. One thing we certainly never wanted to do again: we didn't want our fate to be decided at closed negotiating tables in remote countries; that the imperial ambitions wrapped in the password of internationalism determine for us what is right, what is wrong, what is free and what should not be done; that free Hungary's policy should be created under the compulsion of foreign NGOs or lobby groups that are not chosen and controlled by anyone. In the free world to which we joined, of course, there are conflicts of interest and value, until the last time there was no fashion force or blackmail to bring allied states to better judgment, a large or small country was sitting at the negotiating table, and the proper respect was given to everyone. Although this picture has proved fundamentally true over the past decades, it soon turned out that there were plenty of shades on the contours. In the 1990s, it became clear that some actors do not consider the countries of the former Eastern bloc to be equal partners, and expect them to adopt political, economic and community-organizing solutions without criticism. Those who didn't like it were faced with intense criticism of the domestic and international press, and I even put it delicately in some places. This practice gave rise to the realization that totalitarian thinking, which made us want to get rid of Soviet rule, continued to live with us in some form. Liberal democracy, which has been declared to be the best possible worlds, has been stiffened and transformed into the same progressive utopia that socialism once was. One of the flagship ships of this utopian and imperial endeavor is undoubtedly George Soros and the idea of an open society marked by his name. This idea proclaims that the tested values that have made Western civilization successful are Christian culture, traditional family model, community of nations, political self-determination of nations, all sins that need to be disposed of. György Soros wrote his study again, in which he once again gave the order that Hungary and its citizens should be attacked and sanctioned. The voices are familiar, as the Hungarians could learn very similar ideas between 1948-49 and 1989, when they tried to destroy our traditional values in the spirit of socialist progression. Today, the political programme of open society is being implemented by a number of official, semi-official organisations. There is the NGO network linked to the Open Society Foundation, but politicians supporting the idea are sitting in the dominant position of most international organizations, and there are also soros György's supporters among the politicians in Brussels. As in the socialist era, the goal is to maintain and change the way people live. At one time, the creation of the communist man, the homo Sovietian, was the goal of the policy at hand, so today the open society wants to highlight the man who refused traditional values. Hungary has gone beyond Hungary's will to the frontline of these political efforts. The Hungarian people have repeatedly stated that they do not ask for the social experiment of mass immigration with insurmountable consequences, they do not ask for the break-up of the traditional concept of family, the abstract idea of supranational governance that is not good, they want to preserve their well-established way of life. The genderless attacks and all political initiatives aimed at our country are ultimately to be interpreted as attacks on Hungarian people with these principles. One of the manifestations of this is the current debate in Brussels on the so-called rule of law conditions, which is, in fact, political blackmail. That is why they continue to force the compulsory resettlement quota, attack the border lock and the Hungarian regulations. The Hungarians, on the other hand, know and recognize the attempts of extortion reflecting such imperial logic, as they have been involved so many times. It is worth remembering, however, that no matter how many empires have tried to do this, they have finally become past times, and we Hungarians are still here, and we will remain here in this way, in present time. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-44	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz Group, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and to give the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-23-45	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Today's biggest challenge is the fight against a coronal virus epidemic worldwide. The primary task of all governments and all decision-makers now is to protect people's lives, to protect people's health, while at the same time protecting jobs and the economy. This is our task not only for us pro-government politicians, but also for left-wing representatives. If at some point, they should be working with us now, because there is no pro-government corona virus and no left-wing corona virus, just like there is no party debt to vaccines, fortunately. [[13.00]] What we see, however, is that the left, instead of protecting people's lives, works diligently, day by day, to produce false news, to produce the Kamuvideos and the rumors. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, Who are you rooting for? The corona virus or the humans? Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is fighting the epidemic heroically, so it was during the first wave, and so it is now. Thanks to everyone who works night and day for others, he works in defense. Just like in the spring, the virus is threatening the lives of older people and chronic patients, but don't fool anyone into letting the younger people go through it quickly and easily. Let us hope that the measures introduced for 30 days will fulfill their hope and that we can stop the diseases, together with the Hungarian people, with whom we say that all life matters. Our common goal is to protect people and the quality of health care. To do this, we must reduce the number of diseases with all our efforts. Ladies and gentlemen, All technical devices for the defense are now available - breathing machines, beds, masks, protective equipment. We have the highest number of ventilators per million, most intensive beds, and the third largest number of hospital beds in the EU. In recent months, Hungary has done everything in its power to prepare as much as possible for the second wave of the epidemic. The success of defence depends on discipline and health care. We are all grateful for the hard work of doctors and health workers, for the perseverance of the police, the soldiers, the public administration. And thank you all, all Hungarian people, for complying with the restrictions and wearing the mask. We know that it is necessary to hold on until the vaccine against the coronal virus arrives. The good news is, we heard today that this time is getting closer. We are convinced that the government must negotiate with everyone who can provide vaccination to Hungary so that the vaccination programme can begin as quickly as possible. We've already committed 12 million doses of vaccine to three manufacturers. It is regrettable that, while there is a need for cooperation in the fight against the epidemic, the left remains occupied with false news production and deleveraging. Recently here in this House, Jobbik questioned the effectiveness of Russian and Chinese drugs, pretending to dissuade people. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] And then he wasn't expecting me, or maybe he was looking forward to it, and he got a sponsor. György Soros has come to the stage [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Who immediately instructed Brussels to investigate the fact that Hungary wants to obtain a vaccine from outside the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, Why does it bother him that Hungary could be the first foreign country to receive a vaccine for the Hungarian people, for the sake of the Hungarian people? It is also quite outrageous that according to the US Stock Exchange Speculator, Hungary has purchased too much ventilator and equipment. [[Lajos Rig: But there is no man to operate it!]] I believe that this is the duty of the Hungarian government, nothing is expensive for human life, and action must be taken immediately. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, I see you're not rooting for the good side right now. Please stop making fake news, spread the camuvides, and stop alarming people. Instead, help protect life. Please move from the side of the coronal virus to the side of the people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Csaba Gyure: Bravo!]]
u2020-11-23-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári replied. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Countries that work together can effectively defend themselves. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] The country where left-wing parties from the parliamentary parties are concerned with the opposition's attempt to reduce confidence in doctors, nurses, anyone involved in defence is at a disadvantage in the protection against the virus. The country where we are united, where everyone is fighting the coronal virus together, we may be able to fight the virus sooner or at least prevent it from spreading. Although Bertalan Tóth was here eloquently speaking before the agenda, he forgot to say one thing again, that he would apologize or apologize for the fact that he himself had approved, he himself shared the video, which was the biggest kamuvido among all the false news on the left, the fake news video of the kamuvideoist Korózs, in which he interviewed Athina Németh, who said that nine of the ten patients who he claimed had been sent from the hospital were killed. Turns out she's not a nurse, which is why she couldn't take care of anyone in her home, which is why the entire set of statements on which she built her criticism of the spring first wave against the Left collapsed as a house of cards in a few days. Even though more than five months have passed, slowly half a year, the left has done nothing but continue to hold Lajos Korózs in his position as chairman of the Committee on Welfare, which is the number one person in the Parliamentary Committee on Health. This is incomprehensible to everyone, even at first glance, with common sense. Why aren't you apologizing? How could you investigate this in one day? How is it that the investigation didn't result in anything? How is it that in the Dialogue, in the Party of Szabó Timea, who also referred to Németh Athina several times here in Parliament and in the committee meeting, his hair was not harmed? How is it possible that Bertalan Tóth says that the credibility of Lajos Korózs is beyond doubt, while the country-world could see that what was said in that video was completely false? Ágnes Kunhalmi says he'd like to shoot this video again, we should do it again: This is the best proof that my party did the right thing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He's the one who said it. Then László Szakács, also a leading socialist politician from the left: I am in solidarity with Lajos Korózs in this respect and do not have to give up on Lajos Korózs. If, for this reason, you do not have to give up your presidency in the Committee on Health, then why do you have to? What is to be done, according to the left, as head of the People's Welfare Committee, as chairman of the Health Commission, to make it unworthy of this position, if not to make the Hungarian health system completely untrue, of all Hungarian hospitals, of all Hungarian doctors, of all Hungarian nurses? He says they're irresponsible enough to get people out of the hospital and let them die. This is what Lajos Korózs and Athina Németh accused all Hungarian doctors and all Hungarian nurses and all Hungarian hospital directors, but according to the left, this is not something they should resign for. Ágnes Vadai says on ATV: "It's not fake, but it doesn't matter. But it's proven that it's fake, it's proven that it's not real, and yet he goes into ATV and says, no, it's not fake. Or Szabó Timea, who also considers the attitude of the pro-government representatives to be shameful in this regard, and do not let the right talk about who is worthy of the sitting. Why are you doing this? Why do they say that? 'Cause actually, everybody's got their bullshit story and their bullshit. We have Lajos Korózs's camuvide, and then we have his fake statistics that he's a repulsive fake news producer, but let's not forget: it was Bertalan Tóth, Zsolt Molnár and István Nyakó who reviewed this video and approved it. István Ujhelyi was the left-wing MEP whose cameraman shot this. It was Mrs. Bango who said about the rapid tests that there would be no rapid testing on the day the rapid testing started. But it was also she, Congresswoman, who shared news that the dead were being taken from a hospital every five minutes, and then when the correction came, she just deleted the news, but did not publish the correction. After all, it was Bernadett Wind, who said that there was no protective equipment in the hospitals, and that he had to carry the masks, while millions and millions of protective equipment arrived around the time, day after day, and that what could be done was immediately taken to hospitals. For example, it was Szabó Timea who claimed here in Parliament that his false reputation was that most people die in Hungary. Everyone on the left has a false reputation. The same thing said that it was irresponsible for hospitals to make beds for patients with coronal viruses. But we could continue, Mr Arató, who at 2 p.m. here in Parliament said that there was a secret about the contamination of kindergartens and schools, which was announced by Zoltán Maruzsa himself at the coronal virus press conference of the operational tribe starting at 11:15 a.m. And then Klára Dobrev said that eight out of ten tests would have to be paid. Lajos Korózs is not canceled because they are all accomplices, because everyone on the left has their own false reputation, and when one is cancelled, they are afraid that they will have to resign in a dominoes, which is why they are protecting Lajos Korózs. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present further speeches outside the agenda. Here you go, notary. You have the floor. [[13.10]]
u2020-11-23-49	Dear Parliament, Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Mária Kállai, Fidesz; Péter Hoppál, Fidesz; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2020-11-23-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Right now, at 1:10 p.m., we're gonna start discussing immediate questions. Mr. Péter Jakab and Congressman György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask Mr György Szilágyi to accept the response or to wait for the Prime Minister to be present in the Chamber and ask for his answer personally. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-51	We don't accept replacements.
u2020-11-23-52	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister has to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, MEPs Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? Mr. Tamás Csányi, Congressman! I respectfully ask you to accept the person of the response, who, due to the Minister's absence, is Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, or wait for the Minister to be present in Parliament and ask for his answer personally.
u2020-11-23-53	Thank you very much. We'll wait for the Minister.
u2020-11-23-54	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that the Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "Why is the family-friendly government destroying them? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Völner has given the right to reply to several State Secretarys. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel nodds.]] Thank you very much. The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-55	Mr President, Dear House, I remember clearly in 2016, one of the Prime Minister's announcements, at which time Prime Minister Viktor Orbán invited all the families to a toast on the occasion of the repayment of the loan from the IMF and the EU, and they praised their own performance with loud rhetoric; that foreign exchange loans, the currency stock of all loans, could be substantially reduced. On the other hand, in recent days, the news has exploded that Hungary has taken out some 800-900 billion foreign currency-based loans for 10-30 years, and in parallel, perhaps already preparing for the veto, after this loan was made, it was announced that it would veto the European budget on the basis of which a very serious volume of support and a loan with perhaps no lower conditions than that would have been available, for example in order to rebuild and maintain the Hungarian economy. What Hungary's Government has failed at the same time is the replacement of at least 80 percent of the wages lost, according to the construction of the Hungarian employment protection fund. Even in the spring period, you have been able to complete only 15-20 percent. And now, in terms of two sectors, a 50 percent solution is made possible in the case of an unfortunate minority of workers. It is clear, therefore, that the number of unemployed people will continue to increase, because there is a crisis, and this government has failed, has ruined crisis management and is indebting the country with international credits. Think of the long-term loan of 850 billion in China behind the Budapest-Belgrád solution, and we can think of huge megaloans from other eastern countries. So my question is clear, Mr Secretary: why, instead of toasting, do they achieve that Hungary will be strangled again by international credits, and in much more directions than in previous decades? Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-23-56	Thank you very much. As I said, we will hear the answer from Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I am very pleased that the Ministry of Justice has now become competent in budgetary matters, and I can answer your question. But if we remember the situation that started in 2010, then you know very well that the foreign exchange ratio of the government debt was at least 50 percent. [[Michael Varga will spread his arms.]] The Minister of Finance, Mihály Varga, was able to bring this down with great work, central bank and everyone, to a sum of about 20 percent. It also shows that we are victims of ideological and political blackmail in Brussels. You may not have noticed, but you have a representative out there that you can sometimes consult with, and you are attacking us in this area, where you want to link the issue of our resources with these ideological and political blackmails. And we remember very well when, in the summer, the Hungarian Parliament made a decision that the government could not accept a budget in which this blackmail instrument was incorporated. Maybe you don't remember, and we'll send it to you if you want. As a result, the position of the Hungarian government is tied. However, as I said, we still have a foreign exchange debt ratio of around 20 per cent, which requires that we have sufficient reserves, and if you discuss it with your allies on the left, you can see that you have generally received short-term foreign exchange loans from 2015. A great recognition of the Hungarian economy, the budget, is that we will be able to replace them in the future with long-term foreign exchange loans, and it also seems that blackmail, if you do so, cannot become its victims, that we do not take on a joint EU loan, if, in practice, they also want to conclude that afterwards we cannot receive the cohesion funds that we otherwise have made other concessions, including opening our markets up as a defenceless economy to the EU's capitalised states. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-59	Mr President, Dear House, Contrary to my fellow Member, Mr Völner, who has supposedly not consulted MEPs in the last half hour, I do, there is also the opinion that the rule of law criteria do not include the migration themes you have regularly mentioned, nor the gender theme. I wouldn't support any of them if they forced them on Hungary, but you are simply lying. If not, then stand up now, Secretary of State, and instead of fake news production, mark that specific EU decision and reference basis [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] on the basis of which this amazing injection lie campaign is being conducted in Parliament. What I would like to talk about: on the criteria of the rule of law, you would be covered by the fact that almost the total Fidesz senior management is a relative of the exception, and the circle of friends could have been enriched with greasy, billion-dollar assignments over the last ten years that could not have been created under the rule of law. He tells you all that you were happy about the release from the IMF shackles, but now you add to the pride of Hungary that a thousand billion-dollar stranger [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] foreign currency loans are granted for a period of 30 years. Congratulations, if you think this is a successful crisis management, celebrate. We would rather replace the loss of wages for Hungarian workers, bring through and rebuild this country. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-23-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't think ten years ago that Jobbik would speak in Parliament one day and complain that Hungarian companies could win in Hungarian public procurement [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches. å Intercoms in the same place, among them: Shame on you! Z. Kárpát Dániel: Can Hungarians Steal?]] and Hungarian entrepreneurs can also obtain orders from which, for example, infrastructure investments can be created. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]] It may hurt you. If you think public procurement is stealing, go out to Brussels, explain to yourself what public procurement means, what competition is, what tender is. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] I want you to go to the tender, too. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , or their friends or entrepreneurs, and as they experience grievances, then... The other one, from which it started, because although it is short time, I would also reply that if you had completed your legal studies or completed your studies in the near future, you would also be teaching a law story, there is a rubber paragraph. What the Union is operating on is a rubber paragraph. Basically, we could put our necks in a noose so they could pull that leash that would choke us to death. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Mesterházy, Member of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why do you not support the creation of a mechanism that will enable the EU to ensure common values and principles in the Member States? It's an address. [[13.20]] Honourable Congressman, Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2020-11-23-63	Yes, Mr President, I accept the answer of the Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The answer now?]]
u2020-11-23-64	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-65	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, At present, the European Union is one of its weaknesses in having difficulty enforcing its own values and principles. A country, as long as it strives to become a member of the Union, must comply with a serious set of conditions in respect of the rule of law, democracy, respect for human and minority rights. However, as a member, there is no longer such close control over countries. The main reason for this is that the institutions of the Union are afraid to intervene in the internal affairs of a government. I believe that the enforcement of our common values and principles cannot be considered. The European Union should therefore be entrusted with the necessary means to continuously encourage its members to represent the values and to comply with the principles. It is a contradiction if we expect the Union to get the governments of the Member States to follow the rules, but we are reluctant to give this authorisation which may undermine our sovereignty. Because the Union must ensure that the protection of its values is not only done on paper, these values cannot be violated by any Member State as a member of the Union. I believe that the European Union must not hesitate when it comes to the fact that some governments are violating the values of the Union. Procedures that may be applied in such cases should be established so that no Member State can hide behind the principle of international law of non-interference. I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister: what do you think of this? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The preservation of the rule of law in the Member States is primarily the responsibility of the national constitutional institutions, which is adequately ensured by the Fundamental Law and the constitutional institution system in Hungary. At the same time, some political actors use the concept of the rule of law and its core values to exert political pressure and wish to use various sanctions against Hungary on this basis. In many cases, these efforts do not even have a basic contract basis. EU rule of law procedures have now become ideologically based political witch hunts and have divided Member States. Instead of dialogue, one-sided accusations, instead of mutual understanding, they created insurmountable conflicts, instead of rule of law principles, they became instruments of political advocacy. The rule of law cannot be protected by means which do not comply with the fundamental requirements of the rule of law itself. Honourable Congressman, So I can tell you that Hungary, as it has always done, will continue to make its own decisions in a sovereign way. Of course, we have joined the European Union, we have also undertaken various legal consequences, and we have introduced them into our legal system. When there is such a contradiction, the European Court of Justice must be brought before the European Court of Justice in the final case if there is no intermediate agreement on who is right. I would like to say to you that Hungary is perhaps the only country in the European Union where we have implemented all the judgments of the European Court of Justice concerning us. All of them, Your Honour. We are saying that there is an established legal form of negotiation, and we must go through this, if the European Commission is not talking about the Union, but about the Commission; it maintains the statements it made before Hungary. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-68	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-69	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, If I understand correctly, you don't agree with me. This is interesting, because what I have read, the word for word is yours, yes, Hungary can do more! From its Fidesz European Parliament election programme [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] on page 35, page 41 and page 44, I would like to show you [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] on page 35, page 41 and page 44, I would like to show you It's in this document. So perhaps this is the first time, Deputy Prime Minister, when I would support Fidesz's programme (Development in the ranks of the opposition). ) and I would ask you to observe, for once in life, what has already been written to the Hungarian voters, and these demands, which were made in 2009, are true, then Gyurcsány-government was still in power, a socialist government was in power, and now you have the opportunity to comply with them, because now the European Union wants something similar to what you want. (Development in the ranks of the opposition. ) So a better compromise and such a good historical situation cannot be imagined. Life has made it very easy for you to fulfill your own agenda, which you promised to the voters. Thank you very much, Mr. President. (Applause in the ranks of the opposition. )
u2020-11-23-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Deputy Prime Minister is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I am sorry that you did not read this text, because if you had read this text further, it is also stated that the purpose of Fidesz is to protect Hungary and the Hungarian people. So if these two things go against each other, it is obvious that we will stand up for the Hungarian people and we will achieve the protection of Hungary. I am very sorry that you made the same mistake again as you did when you demanded a VAT commando in this country, and you wanted to punish the Hungarian merchants. Not politics against the Hungarian people, not against the Hungarian industry, the Hungarian economy and Hungary, but for Hungary! That's what we'd like to ask of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-72	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to wait for the Minister to be present.
u2020-11-23-73	Thank you very much, I accept.
u2020-11-23-74	Thank you very much. Mr Zoltán Varga has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You accused the left politicians of lying less than ten minutes ago, although if in the pandemic period someone ordas lied a great deal to the eyes of the Hungarian people here in this House, that is the shining star of our nation, your chief of staff, the Prime Minister. He was the one who promised just a few months ago that anyone who got sick would be saved. I'd like to point out that 3891 patients who have died of a coronal virus are now being registered, according to a record that I have to add, which, by the way, many people have doubts about their accuracy. Doctors, nurses and paramedics are clearly doing heroic work, yet they are not able to prevent mass contamination in a visible way, there are not enough professionals for the patients, nor are they able to operate hundreds of billions of forints of life support machines. In several hospitals in the waiting room, there are chairs for people suffering from the virus, but we also see in the photos, otherwise, it's not a news report about a fevered patient outside, waiting on the street for a covid patient to test. There are insufficient tests to prevent the spread of the disease. The question is, why is Slovakia testing all citizens twice by the end of the year, and we somehow fail to do so. So we don't get any closer to getting to the real numbers? Remember, it was ten years ago for your government to improve their health. Compared to this, we can see that health care is in ruins, virtually on the brink of destruction. And it is no longer only the fight and defense against the virus that Hungarians die from their own sins and mistakes. Remember, you promised there'd be enough flu shots, and we'll see it today, too, it's a lie. Surgery will be canceled, who will have a heart attack, perhaps a stroke, almost no longer have a chance of survival, since classes have been closed or are so overwhelmed that there is simply no possibility of healing, and emergency care is in ruins. Why don't you test the country? Why is there a shortage of flu shots? How many of our countrymen do the government expect to lose because of their own failure? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-23-76	Thank you, Congressman. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds.
u2020-11-23-77	Thank you very much. Allow me to quote a sentence to you, Congressman, from your fellow party, which, on the one hand, contradicts what you said in terms of facts, and on the other, shows exactly who the Democratic Coalition is rooting for. Gergely Arató, in a TV interview, said that I quote literally: "Unfortunately Hungary is too good for mortality data. He had to apologize for that sentence. [[13.30]] Honourable Congressman, Each person's life counts, not like the Swedes, we fight for every man's life, we don't give up on anyone, or like the Swiss who declare the elderly, chronic patients, that they actually want to stay alive or not, in Sweden they don't even declare it, but just leave them alone, we fight for every man. These countries are the ones that lecture us on humanity, by the way, every quarter. Therefore, thank God in Hungary fewer people died as Crown Virus patients per million inhabitants than in Bulgaria, Ireland, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Romania, the Netherlands, Sweden, Sweden, more than one and a half times in Sweden, almost twice as many as in Hungary, the Czech Republic, France, the USA, France and the USA, twice as many died in proportion, Italy, England, Spain, Belgium, and the latter three and a half times more. Although you say you have doubts about statistics, honourable Member, but Hungary is publishing a much broader set of statistics against other countries, as the data of all those who at the moment of death have been diagnosed with coronal virus disease. Although about 6-7 percent of these unfortunate deceased are those who do not show any other disease, which may have led to death, they are all included in this statistics, so we are talking about a much wider range of statistics. Other countries have included not only PCR tests, which are the most reliable, but also all other rapid tests in their various statistics during the previous period, which is why there may be differences which you refer to, honourable Member. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'll pick it up from here for a minute. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Zoltán Varga, please.
u2020-11-23-79	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, You're paper tigers. I've heard these data 50 times, but I can tell you that a friend of mine called me crying, said he had a coronary virus and a fear of death; he is afraid that he will go to the hospital, because if he gets in, he will die there, because the Hungarian health system will not be able to treat the patients otherwise. There has been a death in his family that simply lacked the capacity to heal him. Interestingly, you believe in free parking: you think that free parking will solve this problem, not repairing health care. Don't you feel how repulsive this is? In spite of your numbers, people in Hungary are desperate, they don't believe you. It's not me, it's not me, I don't believe you, it's the patients who are desperate to be left alone by the government. Well, that's the problem. You're explaining your certificate to them, not me. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, please.
u2020-11-23-81	Thank you very much. As opposed to you, we believe not only in free parking but also in free health care, because you have introduced paid health care with a visitation fee and a hospital allowance. [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] You have reduced health expenses; four hospitals have been closed; 6,000 medical workers have been dismissed. Have these all served security in your time, honourable Member? Look at the OECD statements. You are the only ones who have reduced health expenditure in proportion to the population, per resident, while we have raised these expenditure in the seventh largest proportion, honourable Member. Look at OECD statistics. And in Hungary, you can't read news like in other countries that certain patients are already being treated in their cars, which stop in front of the hospital and take the respirator out, or turn the hospital restaurant into an intensive care room. [[Lajos Rig intervenes.]] You cannot read that hospital patients are not getting beds, because in Hungary there has been a hospital bed for all patients who have been hospitalized, and there has been hospital beds, there has been staff, and there has been a need for a ventilator, the ventilator that you attacked. They attacked at the beginning because there were few; then they attacked at the same time because there were many; then they attacked at the beginning; and then they attacked at the beginning because there were few; and then they attacked at the same time because there were many; [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] reason for attacking the [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Purchases of ventilators. Honourable Congressman, What you're doing is irresponsible, fake news and kamuvideo production. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, you accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2020-11-23-83	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-11-23-84	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Group Leader, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: "Who doesn't have any money? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Balázs Orbán has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. I respectfully ask you, accept your response.
u2020-11-23-85	Out.
u2020-11-23-86	Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Ungár, please.
u2020-11-23-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, As one person, the nation pays tribute to the performance of health and social workers, that is what Minister Kásler said yesterday, and I think we can all agree with that. It is very good that they now pay verbal respect to social workers. It would be better if this verbal respect were followed by material and other respect, because the fact is that the Prime Minister and the Minister's Facebook posts cannot pay the rent and the child cannot be bought a school bag. Here's what happened. First of all, a decree was issued, from which inexplicably, social workers were left out of free travel, which they provided to health workers. This is explained by the fact that the EMMI can't write a decree, and you know that it is true that this has been the case in several cases, so please try to indicate the reason for this. The other thing is that to date, the one-off HUF 45 billion wage supplement, which was correctly granted to health workers, was not granted to social workers. Why do they lie about not having this 45 billion in the budget and why not give this one-off pay supplement to social workers whose 80 percent are looking for the guaranteed minimum wage and who are currently one of the most active combatants against the Crown Virus crisis? If you are making politics out of elderly home infections, then you should also make a policy about who works in elderly care, homeless care, family support and give a one-time payment of HUF 500,000.
u2020-11-23-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Balázs Orbán responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to start with a rejection: we are not the ones who are making policy on the fight against the epidemic, but you are making a policy out of it. We believe that this is basically a health and economic crisis that can only be dealt with together, and that every single one of our speeches in Parliament is about thanking everyone who is involved in the fight against the epidemic and we can say occupations and social groups in many of these areas, so we thank everyone for their hard work. It's a time when we need to work together. For your part alone, we have not experienced this on the part of the opposition parties. Fortunately, the defense will take place without your help. There is one thing we would like to ask you to stop making false news, because it is unfortunately a suitable tool to undermine the effectiveness of protection. If you do not take this personally, I am very pleased, but then I would like to ask you to use your influence on the opposition side and to persuade your fellow Members not to do so. By the way, as regards wage increases, this is an important thing, because I think that, even in such a difficult economic period, it is crucial that the various social groups are recognised by the government and that they are also financially supported. This is what we have done with regard to doctors and nurses; this is what we have done with regard to pensioners; this is what we have done with regard to families. And if you look at the numbers, you can see that we are doing the same for social workers, because their average wage has increased by 115 percent since 2010, so there is also a running wage increase program. We are maintaining this despite the crisis. We would like to ask you to support us in this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-23-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary. It is very, very difficult for me to understand exactly what you answered, because I asked two questions: why did social workers miss a free trip when they needed it? That was the first question. The second is where the HUF 500,000 wage supplement is, which they deserve as well as healthcare workers. They say 45 billion is not in the budget. More has now been spent as a key government investment on the MotoGP course in Hajdú County, and 300 billion have been transferred a few days ago, of which 80 billion went to help large companies. If there are 80 billion to help large companies, there are 45 billion to give Hungarian social workers a one-off HUF 500,000 wage supplement for one of the most beautiful professions.
u2020-11-23-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go. [[13.40]]
u2020-11-23-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I think that, on behalf of social workers, you may also be able to thank for your political activity in this area in the House's walls. The only thing that would make it credible is that once, at least once, when Parliament has to decide on this wage increase, you would press a button, so you would support the wage increase program that we are continuing at the moment, and that will result in their wage increase constantly. I don't see double standards. If you look at the extensive testing programme that we launched this week, it will extend to those working in education, health and the social sector, their health and the correct conditions for their work are key to me. So once again, I would like to ask you to support our actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is going on? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Hungarians are in an increasingly difficult situation because of the epidemic, many are losing their jobs, and even more people are taking less money home while there is enormous pressure on health care. According to the Dialogue, solidarity and example are needed in this situation. The opposition-led capital has already made its move, making major savings. The transformations do not concern the simple workers, but the leaders, the directors, the political appointees, including one fewer deputy, six companies, and twenty-one fewer supervisory board members will be maintained. This is a real bureaucracy reduction. But a lot more money, a lot more public money could be saved if the government saved itself. You like to point back to the times before 2010. In 2009, the total number of ministers and ministers of state moved around 85. That number's almost 200 by now. The fourth Orbán government has an unprecedented number of state ministers and commissioners. There is a Minister for Space, a Deputy State Secretary responsible for young people, who had to change the law to be appointed without a degree and without a degree. I'm surprised you don't have a State Secretary for the fight against George Soros, by the way. Well, I'm not gonna give you ideas, 'cause they're gonna make it happen. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Has the government ever thought about saving itself instead of people and local governments? Like the example of Budapest, does the government plan to save on its own private life, such as with fewer state ministers and commissioners? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-11-23-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga responds to what has been said. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2020-11-23-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to remind you that the first wave of the epidemic has been managed successfully. The government's immediate move and internal transfer made it possible to carry out a transfer of around 20% of gross domestic product. So the government started making the most important decisions on its own. We have made transfers that we thought would be available or delayed, and we have spent resources on the control of the epidemic and the protection of the economy. Unfortunately, however, we do not experience this in all municipalities, Member. Here you mentioned the City Council. We are having a debate right now in which the capital does not seem to go through with the proposal that you have initiated. I would remind you that the government has adopted and approved a regulation that facilitates parking during an emergency. The mayor was pleased to announce on the social portal that this was his suggestion, his idea. Then, when the proposal was made to open the parking lot of the Town Hall, it was silent silence, while remembering it, right after the municipal election, it was the mayor who announced that he would make the parking lot of the Town Hall a public square, opening it to the inhabitants of the capital and the V. district. Now that hasn't happened, ever since. It's stunned and quiet. So I would ask the Member to use his influence in the capital and to do so in order that the capital will make as many decisions as the government did in the spring. I would add that we are asking for this not only, but also the Budapest Chamber of Commerce and Industry. There have been countless ideas on how to help businesses in Budapest. So far, the capital has received a penny of support from the capital companies. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-98	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-99	Thank you for the floor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, You did not answer my question about how the government was preparing to rationalise its own operation in view of the crisis. This is a time of solidarity and example. Would the government like to make a move on that? Would you like to reduce the number of State Secretarys and deputies with a record number? Would you like to pool state companies to save public money? I expect the answer to that question. And as for your reaction, he was talking about the first wave and the transfer of funds. Yeah, they've transferred funds from government to government. They took the money from the municipalities, which is in the first line of defense, and transferred it to the government, which gives it to Lőrinc Mészáros and gives the money to his own entrepreneurs. He was actually telling the truth about the Parking lot at City Hall. Yes, the capital is planning a community space there. Do you know the difference between community space and parking? A lot of things. Community space isn't for cars, it's for people. That's what the capital's up to. Please answer my question. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-101	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I feel like you're setting double standards on this case again. While it aims to protect the municipalities, it forgets the increase in the number of municipalities after the 2019 elections. I would like to remind you that during the mayorship of István Tarlós, there were fewer city leaders than there are now. But if I look at it at district level, there are many examples of the increase in numbers in the districts. I'm just the II. I can tell you a district. There are five times as many leaders at the head of the municipal council today as in the period of the former district administration. I'm not even talking about asking your colleague, Tordai Bencé, what was the need to do that while Bence Tordai never started II. At district elections, his wife still goes to a council committee. Well, if we're gonna save money, if we're gonna save money, we don't need them in any way. First, then, convince your own comrades to make these cuts. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-102	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán appointed Minister of State to respond. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days, a rather intricate case typical of the Demszky era has come to light, about which the left is not surprisingly silent. Let's see what we're talking about. Please monitor the dates very, very closely. In April this year, BKV, under the direct management of the Metropolitan Municipality, issued a public procurement procedure for the rental of used buses. The winner is CR-Facilities Property Management Ltd. He made an offer, so they signed a lease with them for more than HUF 300 million. On behalf of the winning company, it is stated that it is a very unusual choice when it comes to the rental of buses, since the company does not have any reference to the rental of buses, nor does it have any experience, since it was founded on 11 May this year, and the court registered it exactly 7 days before the expiry of the deadline for the tender of the BKV on 18 May. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Then they learned from Fidesz!]] [[13.50]] However, the series of coincidences is not over here. The company was founded by three other companies, of which the CRATIS Real Estate Investor is the majority shareholder on the basis of the subscribed capital. The story is getting even more exciting here, as the owner of the CRATIS Real Estate Investor is an offshore company based in Cyprus, whose officials include individuals who can be associated with the leaders of the capital government. With this, honourable Members, the circle is closed. Gergely and Gergely Christmas quietly played 343 million forints to an offshore company with a networked web close to them. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you how a newly founded offshore company could win the BKV tender. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is a sad matter indeed, because we thought that the Demszky era, which was decisive in Budapest before 2010, and to which, among other things, the biggest corruption scandal of all time, the 4th metro case is connected, I am not saying this, but the anti-fraud EU office, we have left this behind for a long time. Indeed, there were ten years at City Hall when there was government, when city operations took place, and when corruption scandals were not typical. In this respect, I think that the last year has become more and more a return to the Demszky era and a 21st year. The trouble and the suspicion of corruption you've brought up can be included in this line of work. It is quite clear that this matter raises questions. The Budapest Government Office examines the regularity of municipal decisions in all such cases. He'll do the same in this case. The Public Procurement Authority has a duty in the event of a finding of an irregularity. This has been done before. For example, the Public Procurement Authority had to impose a fine of HUF 115 million on the exploitation of public transport and public advertising facilities in the capital city due to procedural irregularities. We would like to ask the leadership of the capital to deal with city management and the control of the epidemic, not the filling of advisory and committee positions and putting friends in position. For them, these posts represent a position, not a job. We think it should be the other way around. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I respectfully accept your answer, but I still cannot accept that everything in Budapest continues as it was in the Demszky era between 2002 and 2010; and not only in Budapest, but in the whole country: tax increases, withdrawals, cancelled developments. This is how it happens in the districts of the capital of which I myself am a representative, in Rákosmenten, the capital of XVII. in the district, where the previously planned developments in Budapest stop. Unconfirmed promises, offshore companies, political cleansing at City Hall. Ladies and gentlemen, Budapest and the people of Budapest do not deserve this. Once again, I would like to thank you with respect for your reply, but I cannot accept it, so I say no to the urban style and the corruption-suspecting cases that are taking place there, which now characterize the leadership of the capital, citing the Demszky era. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The problem you have raised concerns two very important areas: on the one hand, transport, which defines everyday life for all of us. Here, the government supported more than 1100 vehicle purchases until 2022, with more than 1300 billion forints in support of the capital. These results are all questionable if such irregularities are detected. Secondly, green policy is the key to the acquisition of vehicles. We have just heard from the congressman that some independent capital companies are closing down. Let me just say one company, the Main Garden, which has existed since 1867 and is responsible for the development and care of green surfaces in Hungary. So what we're talking about is that there's a company, a big, prestigious, big business, and it's greening, it's survived Trianon, it's survived the communists, it's survived the Demszky era, but now the Christmas Gergelys are gonna wipe it out overnight under cover of the plague. It's sad that we've come this far. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman István Hollik, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Can Lajos Korózs Kamuvideo lead the People's Welfare Committee? It's an address. Mr President, because of the absence of Minister, Mr Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. [[On the mark of István Hollik:]] Thank you very much, you indicate to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman István Hollik, please.
u2020-11-23-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, including: Hard!]] We see that the epidemic is taking off all over Europe. In these difficult times, it would be important, more precisely, for everyone to play their part in the defense. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The banks, for example!]] And so is the opposition. Unfortunately, we find that the left, where possible, has so far hindered defence. Last year, they did not vote in favour of the Crown Virus Act, and they constantly attacked the defense, undermining the superhuman performance and sacrifice of healthcare workers. Most of them, however, spread lies and caused panic, headed by Lajos Korózs Kamuvideo, who, in the first wave of the plague, made a chauvide to destroy health care. He repeated his lies here in Parliament several times as an echo of Szabó Timea. But that wasn't enough. Lajos Korózs recently shared on the Internet a number of bleeding death statistics, which referred to data from 2016 and tried to prove that the most common cause of death in Hungary is the corona virus. The latter turned out that as well as the fakes in his video, the statistics used for his post were based on a fundamental lie. The saddest part is that the case still has no consequences. Lajos Korózs Kamuvideos still doesn't take responsibility. He did not give up the leadership of the Welfare Committee, although after his first scandal, it would have been expected of him at least. It is also shocking that, according to the left, it is perfectly okay that the chairman of the Welfare Committee produces kamuvido, fake statistics. Instead of choosing another left-wing president, replacing Lajos Korózs, they protect him, i.e. cover him for a great lie. Mr. Secretary, my question is that the government can see as a partner a committee president who attacks defense with a camuvide. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is bad to think that it is Lajos Korózs, among the left-wing politicians, who is the best person to lead the health committee. Then what would it be like for other politicians on the left to see this professional and human greatness being put at the head of the People's Welfare Committee? Of course, Lajos Korózs placed himself on a very high shelf when he said he was himself in a video: "I am a decent man, I think I am a much better politician than usual." Lajos Korózs Kamuvideos said this about himself, but in other cases he also said something that would very well blow the whistle for many. He asked: "Hungarians own Hungary? They're so stupid. There are no Hungarians in Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Such and similar were the words of Lajos Korózs, beyond why it is important to reduce social norm, or why it is necessary to take care of neighbors and friends who leave the social welfare system during socialist governance. So Lajos Korózs had memorable sentences in the past, but I think that most people will really remember him as the Kamuvideos Korózs, who made a video based on unrealities from the first to the last minute, and tried to discredit Hungarian health care both in Hungary and abroad. [[14.00]] Nothing happened on the left, there was no consequence of this, after an extremely rapid one-day inspection, it was found that no one was responsible for the drop of the biggest fake news bomb in the Hungarian media and the Kamuvideo tried to put the effectiveness of the defense at risk. No one moved from the left, he did not dare to say that, yes, this is unacceptable both for Hungary and for the left, what Lajos Korózs did. But it is clear to the ruling parties, to the right: Lajos Korózs made himself unworthy of being head of the Protection and Health Welfare Committee during the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman István Hollik. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I think it is quite clear that Lajos Korózs, who made the Kamuvideo, must leave the head of the Health Committee. Anyone who attacks health workers and deliberately distributes lies in order to attack the government for all of this, driven by daily party political interests, I think he is not worthy to lead the People's Welfare Committee. Therefore, I would kindly ask the left to stop absolving Lajos Kamuvideos, but to do what they would have done in all other countries: to recall Lajos Korózs and to appoint another left-wing president to head the People's Welfare Committee. We're anxious to know when they're gonna do this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-23-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can also ask why the Hungarian left, the left-wing press and the international left need Lajos Korózs. Among other things, because he, whether true or not, based on untruths, is a reference to attacking the government, based on a chauvideo. Although it became clear that a half-minute of the video you made wasn't true, yet if you go up to Euronews, if you go up to the Financial Times website, the spring fake news, the fake news from the Kamuvideo is still there. But you don't have to look at the spring videos, if you look at the recent article in the British Medical Journal, it's based on the same narrative, of course, from a journalist who had written articles to 444, and has written such articles elsewhere. My Hungarianism has turned itself into a kind of nasty skin disease, which I am confused about trying to get off my back. I try to suppress my Hungarian accent abroad. I vowed that I would never have a Hungarian couple, and I will never settle down in Hungary.Na, they need Lajos Korózs. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Why are you neglecting professionals, Prime Minister? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. But I'll inform you that if you don't accept it, your question will be revoked by the Parliament's adopted decision. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-23-119	I'll take it. Thank you.
u2020-11-23-120	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I feel like a military junta is running the administration: mechanized shooter is the new Chancellor of the University of Acting Arts, the national hospital director is a police officer who built those cordons on behalf of the Gyurcsány government in 2006 at Kossuth Square, which was then demolished by Viktor Orbán in 2007 with his own hands. Soldiers were sent to hospitals and companies in the spring, as if it were better to defend themselves against the epidemic, even though they were only underfoot, without any expertise. The better-feelings apologized to the leaders there, and the viles arranged for the leaders to be fired. An average hospital director-general is required according to the application, medical or other university degree, master's degree in health management, at least five years of management practice, hospital management experience, the existence of a medical exam, experience in crisis management and its field. These are all benefits. But you don't need this for a hospital's top organ. Of course, you don't have to because it's a fake organization, and the managers just need a good fat job. It's okay when soldiers, policemen, are used to observe or control a curfew, or when they're involved in deliveries, or, for example, assist in testing, but to run civil organizations, I think that's an exaggeration. Real professionals are ignored because they are not sure of their political loyalty, even though a real professional is never motivated by political motivation, but simply that he loves his profession. From the Kádár system, which is your worthy predecessor, they could have really learned, because Kádár tried not to lead the looms and cubics already in the 1970s, because they are not very good for him. Today we see that today's leaders have qualifications because they collect paper in the form of a diploma, but there is no real knowledge behind it. Question: "When will Prime Minister finally employ the real professionals, and why do you ignore the excellent?" Thank you for your attention. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-11-23-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga answers the question. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2020-11-23-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Prime Minister is 105/2020. has decided to appoint a National Hospital Director-General on the basis of its decision. On this basis, under the authority of the Government Decree on the National Hospital Directorate-General, on the proposal of the Minister of Human Resources, Zoltán Jenei was appointed Director General of the National Hospital with effect from 18 November. We would also like to congratulate Mr Jenei and wish him good work for all of us. What you object to is not part of any legislation, and I must even say that the current state of health and the management of health, the management of the epidemic situation, requires at least such military accuracy and discipline. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Well, this is a joke!]] as Mr. Jenei owns. [[Lajos Rig intervenes.]] There are soldiers in hospitals now, organizing everyday defenses, organizing the necessary resources. So I think they're doing a useful job. But if, in this respect, you have such a professional chauvinism, I would suggest that you should think about, say, Lajos Kossuth, who was a lawyer, doing an excellent job as the country's first finance minister at the time. He, by the way, introduced the Kossuth bankers, stabilized the domestic currency at that time. So I'm asking you to step away from your profession and not to think that health care professionals are the only people who can work in the economy. There are skills that are particularly valued in times of emergency, and if someone has good organizational skills, if he is able to exercise the powers of the national hospital directorate, which, starting with strategic decisions, extends to his maintenance and management law, then I think he can be fit for it. Give this gentleman at least a hundred days of patience. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-124	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-23-125	Thank you for the floor. It is more than spicy that Zoltán Jenei is compared to Lajos Kossuth by the Deputy Prime Minister. I hope that Zoltán Jenei will never be named after the main square. So, there is a saying that in Hungary you do not do what you know, but what you know. I would like to add a second phrase to this: this may be my saying: if you want to be a leader in Hungary, you must not increase your knowledge, but your buddies and your information. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: He should know that! Applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-11-23-126	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that a benevolent attitude and patience are due to everyone who starts such a job. The country is going through a difficult time, and an epidemic defense fills our daily lives. In this situation, I think we should put aside the petty and selfish aspects that you have raised here. Of course, the job of an opposition is always to attack the government, but the most important thing now is to protect the lives of Hungarian people, and to protect jobs and the economy. If you are a partner in this, we thank you very much, if not, we ask that you do not interfere with the work of the people who are now appointed to such a responsible position, and that their daily lives will probably be completed for 0-24 hours in order to deal with this epidemic. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-128	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: what is important? It's an address. Because of his absence, Minister Tamás Schanda authorized the Secretary of State to reply. I respectfully ask, Congressman, that you accept the person who is responding, or that you ask the Minister for his answer in person. [[14.10]]
u2020-11-23-129	I'll take it, thank you.
u2020-11-23-130	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Kálló has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-23-131	Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, No doubt Hungary has been suffering from a disease for long months, a virus has struck not only Hungary, but Europe as a whole. However, the symptoms of the virus appear not only on humans, but also on economic operators, such as those of large companies. The Dunai Vasmű is one of the largest employers of Fejér county. What were the symptoms? 1. In August, the collective agreement with the workers was terminated in an unprecedented manner. 2. During the month of October, the employees received their monthly salary in two instalments. 3. The same thing happened in November. It is striking to hear here in Parliament month after month, week after week that the government will create as many jobs as the virus will destroy. But I'd like to ask you, how are you going to make more than 8,000 families if something goes wrong in the Ironworks? In view of these three symptoms, you have done nothing, you have not spoken about the collective agreement, and we have spoken to you and asked for it. They didn't say anything about the payments, but we did, and we asked for you. We were cooperative, we offered our help from the municipality, because, by virtue of our right under the Fundamental Law, the Mayor of Dunaújváros, Tamás Pintér, sent an application to the government, where he summarized in a few points how to help the sick Vasmű, which can be helped, because production is continuous. You have rejected this assistance with a couple of serial letters. But the thing is, you didn't say anything else. So here I ask: how are you planning to help one of the largest employers in Fejér County and the region? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-23-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is addressed to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-23-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We have no dispute that Dunaferr is a major player in the Hungarian industry, which has a long history, but, Mr President, let us not forget that this business has been privately owned since 2004. The potential of the State for a privately owned group is much more limited than for a public company. And again, in 2004, this company was privatized by the actors with whom you are about to form a coalition. Honourable Congressman, Allow me also to draw attention to what I think you know exactly, but you do not want to talk about the fact that, since 2010, there have been countless attempts to preserve the company's competitiveness, and in many cases, unfortunately, because of the owner's negative position, these experiments have not led to results. In addition, government assistance is severely limited by the company's opaque ownership background, offshore background. Honourable Congressman, I hope this isn't about you lobbying for offshore companies in Parliament. Honourable Congressman, Allow me also to point out that it is a significant burden for the company, as it is for all European steel players to comply with the various environmental aspects, such as the purchase of quotas. This must be obtained from the free market and, when it does not do so and continues production, the company should be fined for the Brussels rules. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In return, Congressman Gergely Kálló has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-23-135	Dear Secretary of State, In the announcement of the municipality, there was a point in which we asked you to discuss your famous and very good Russian relations and to help clear up the ownership background. I think it's a good job for a foreign minister. You're saying that since 2004, it's been a private company, and I don't know, don't accuse me of selling it. At the time, I think I was pushing the clinky butterfly at home, but whatever. Private company, yes, but how many private companies do you help? Should I list the Audi? [[Tamás János Schanda: Where there is profit.]] Where there's profit, they help. I think we could use some help at Ironworks. And one more thing: you have so many fights with the European Union, if this is against the rules against Brussels and the European Union, why are you not taking on this fight? I promise you, if you take this fight, I will stand in the front row with you to fight for the Ironworks. Let's help the Ironworks, but not because it's offshore, not because it's polluting, but because it's in the interests of our entire national economy. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Help me! Do something! Who did you call? It's Christmas! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-23-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to say this once again, I understand that in Jobbik all rules can be broken, all regulations can be avoided, no legislation has to be complied with, but in Hungary these rules are important. We cannot and do not want to support a company whose ownership background is opaque, which is offshore owned. Honourable Member, you are not going to press this down our throats, that is my first statement. Secondly, if you so much want to help, then there is the better management of Dunaújváros. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Tell me, what have you done for the people at the power plant? Have you reduced local taxes, given special support, done anything for the employees or the business? Nothing, nothing, Your Honour. You're coming here, you're calling the government for something that you know we can't do, and otherwise you're not doing anything for the people who work there. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 14:16. I would remind you that, under the derogation from the adopted house rule, the Prime Minister and the Minister are no longer obliged to answer the immediate questions in person during the discussion of immediate questions after 60 minutes. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "How many more people have to die? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Károly Kontra has authorized and authorized Secretary of State to respond to his absence. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-23-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, On 9 November, Viktor Orbán announced that he would test the employees of the social and educational institutions and the health institutions. Then, last Thursday, Minister Gergely Gulyás announced that 191 thousand employees will be tested this week, in a week's turn, and then on Friday, one Secretary of State spoke of 370 thousand workers. Today, Viktor Orbán announced that 191 thousand employees in educational institutions will be tested and 47 thousand employees in the social sphere will be tested. For months now, we've been saying that one of the best solutions would be to keep testing the employees in the front line. I don't understand how many people are going to be tested now, but that's not the most interesting thing. They could have spent the whole summer preparing to take this step sooner or later, no matter how much they protest, they must do so. They're not ready. Then, last week, it turned out that last week, the local authorities started to list how many institutions, how many professionals it takes, and how many people they want to test permanently. I don't understand how they don't know how many people work in kindergartens, nurserys, schools and social services, and how many people it takes to run this test in a week. Then, on Friday, they came to the point that there was already a local government that they asked for help from the municipalities that you have been punishing for a year. It wasn't enough, we got to the point this weekend that if one of the GPs didn't want to test you in order to protect the GPs from testing because if the GPs go out to test, there's a good chance that they can catch the virus, and then who's gonna care for the population, compared to that, you've been through the government office... there were people who threatened that if the GPs don't test you, what kind of trouble you're gonna get in this country. [[14.20]] On the one hand, Mr. Secretary, how many people are actually being tested in Hungary? And is it really enough for those 2,000 people and those social workers who carry out these tests so that they can run this test in a week? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-23-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, Secretary of State Károly Kontra is responding. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungary is fighting with all its power for the health of Hungarian people, and Hungary is fighting with all its power today to ensure that our countrymen who are infected by the coronal virus epidemic receive the necessary health care. In Hungary, health care has been prepared, hospitals pay the price, but their performance must be protected. In Europe, after the Germans and the Austrians, we Hungarians have the largest hospital bed reserve, and in terms of respirators, we are number one. I would also like to thank everyone who works in healthcare, doctors, nurses, social workers, policemen, soldiers who work to protect the health of Hungarian people. The protection against the corona virus epidemic, honourable Member, is a common responsibility, but the left does not help the country: during the first wave, they did not help on the grounds of the extraordinary legal order, and until there was an extraordinary legal order, the left could not be expected because they were busy producing false news and making political benefits. The opposition did not even vote in favour of a law to facilitate compliance with the quarantine rules. They began by saying that the emergency was equal to the introduction of a dictatorship, and abroad they spread that Parliament could not meet. In April, Szabó Timea said that most people in Hungary die from a coronal virus epidemic throughout the round world. A fake paramedic was then run, and the MSZP's home portal reported a non-existent miracle machine. Almost six months ago, when Lajos Korózs Chamuvideos was exposed to his ignominious Kamuvideo, Lajos Korózs has not apologized since then, despite repeated requests, he has not been called back from the office of Chairman of the National Welfare Committee, although it is clear that he has become completely unworthy of the office. By covering for me, admitting that you're actually not interested in the plague, you're interested in political gain... [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-23-143	Well, no thank you, Mr. Secretary. By the way, shall we be honest, Mr. Secretary? You're getting paid, and for this salary, you're gonna have to do your job. One of your tasks is that we Members come into Parliament here, ask questions, and you have an obligation to answer them. Now, if you'll excuse me, for what part of the story is that there's a bed and a ventilator, and there's no slow man around, and there's a doctor and a nurse and a health worker who can see this system. In fact, it turns out from last week's news that they are working, that these people are really working honestly, and they are not even getting a full salary, because you cannot even solve the problem of getting paid for your work done by health workers who work more than ten hours a day to save the health of Hungarian people. And then you come here, and you come here with all this bullshit? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] They've been doing this for years. Dear Secretary of State, You'll get paid for your work, too, so please take care of this job. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-23-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Károly Kontra is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, as I said, you are only interested in political gain and do not care to acknowledge the work, the efforts of those who are fighting for the lives and health of Hungarian people every day. I would like to say this, and I would like to answer the question of how we can ensure the conditions for testing. I am telling you right now that, in accordance with previous decisions, the necessary test conditions are provided by the government, the tests are carried out by deadline, all the conditions, personnel and material conditions are provided by the government, and I would like to reassure you that these tests will be completed by the deadline. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as the salaries of healthcare workers are concerned, I can assure you that everyone will be paid, and I would like to thank the people working in the healthcare sector, the workers in the social sector, for their heroic work. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] They're the heroes of today, please respect them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-146	Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, "What do you have against social workers?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. Mr László Sebian-Petrovski has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ten days ago, we celebrated Social Work Day. Although you, the government of the last ten years, have very many groups that have suffered a disadvantage over the last ten years and are indemnifying your governance, among which social workers are one of the most deprived, one of the most pariah-treated groups of society according to your government. They are the ones who are trying to improve the lives of the poor, the fallen, the elderly, the disabled, the disadvantaged children, what do they get from the government in return? The average earnings of social workers in a statement in August were only 193 thousand forints, by far the lowest among the average earnings of each sector. This is not a new story, and this has been the case over the past ten years: in 2010 the average earnings of those working in this area decreased by 20 percent, and then declined continuously, year after year between 2011 and 2015, so we are talking about minus, and only in 2018 we managed to reach the level where they were in 2009 during the global economic crisis, while economic growth allowed them to increase this to a greater extent. To add, these are the data of the KSH, so I'm not saying this, I'm saying it, it's the Statistical Office that you run. Meanwhile, human health workers received a one-time gross salary supplement of HUF 500,000, but this was not true for social workers, and they are the ones who just entered the circle that started the Covid screening in their midst. I'm asking what's wrong with you social workers. When will their average salary reach [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Is it not going to be the lowest in this country? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Better late than never; it seems it took ten days for the DK faction to notice the day of social work, but with ten days late, it is not bad to acknowledge the work they do in the social sphere, honourable Member. I would add that, of course, your fellow factions at that time did not press the yes button when we introduced the day of social work here in Parliament, perhaps that is why there is this delay in your speech. You have exposed yourself, honourable Member, and you have said that there has been a very large reduction in wages in the social sphere. What you quoted as statistics, precisely because KSH always evaluates next year, was a reduction in income due to your one-month pay withdrawal in the social sphere. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: In 2015?]] You have unwittingly, but you have revealed yourself, honourable Member, that indeed, unfortunately, in Hungary there was a period in the social sphere, which was the 2008-2009 crisis management period, which you referred to as crisis management, but in fact it was a austerity period, when the Gyurcsány-Bajnai Cabinet was making their situation even worse, since all social workers who were not in a favourable position, as you referred to, took a month's salary. It was then that Lajos Korózs said that I also knew the state normative, and similar sentences were said by him at that time. We sought to improve this situation: in 2014 we introduced the sectoral wage supplement, which meant a surplus of HUF 12 billion; in 2015 the sectoral wage supplement, which was an average wage increase of HUF 16 thousand for 66 thousand for the more qualified and former employees, with an annual budget of HUF 16 billion; in 2016 a combined increase of HUF 35 thousand was made in the sector, and in 2017 we increased the wage envelopes here by HUF 9 billion. And this year we will provide a HUF 33 billion surplus for a 14 percent wage increase of an average of HUF 30 000. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So in ten years, we have managed to double the salary of social workers, and we would like to continue with this increase. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2020-11-23-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Sebian-Petrovsk. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-151	I miss understanding with the Secretary of State. When I talk about the year-on-year decline in average earnings between 2011-15, it was a time for your governance. There's no point in pointing. It is good that we are not going back to ancient times, and there is some reason to explain what is inexplicable; why it is that the lowest average wage, and it has not been denied, Mr Secretary of State in this sphere, nor can he say anything about when it will not be the lowest. Did they give 9 billion a year to a sector that employs tens of thousands of people? Nine billion? ! They're almost buying a boat on the Adriatic. When will it be that this sector will receive as special attention from you as it deserves, as the burden you cause, and the burden that the epidemic is causing them... because this is the sector where they are not testing, they have just started testing, they will not receive a salary supplement, because it was another sector. When does this sector get to be as prominent as you deserve? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You're saying that there could be billions more to raise the wage bill. Of course, everyone can say that, but the only one who has reduced the salary of social workers is the one who has been your government since the change of regime, which has reduced the wages of social workers. It was just you, honourable Member. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] We, on the other hand, tried to raise. As you said, there is an extraordinary situation, the epidemic, which is why the first, or even the first, social worker, has started targeted testing in the last week. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: It's not true! The president's ringing the bell.]] In addition, we prepared for the second wave with 43 million surgical mouth masks, 10,5 million pairs of rubber gloves, 160,000 liters of hand sanitizer, 160,000 liters of surface sanitizer, 34,000 isolation caps and other protective equipment to preserve the health of social workers and caregivers in the second wave. Thank you very much. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: The isolation cloak will buy bread...]]
u2020-11-23-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: what is the Government's intention? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. András Tállai granted the right to reply. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On November 8, László Parragh, head of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, proposed to freeze the business tax for two years or at least suspend the obligation to pay the business tax. Obviously, everyone expected the government to give a clear response to this issue, and it didn't have to wait much, Prime Minister, on the proposal it said that it was steep, but it could be captivated. Dear Secretary of State, I don't want to stall. I ask for a clear, well-interpreted response to your position on the suspension of the business tax. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to say on the proposal that there is no presentation of it, which has not been discussed by the government. A clear answer to the proposal is that it can be granted either in part or not if the Government of Hungary has discussed and decided on such a far-reaching proposal. As far as I'm concerned, I've given you the answer to that question. However, I also have a few seconds to remind you that the control of a coronal virus epidemic is a very complex task, and everyone who lives and works in Hungary is encouraged to participate in the defence, to participate in one way or another, in the way that economic operators, businesses, the state itself, and, of course, in the municipalities. So when, say, a certain percentage of the car tax is included in the central budget by the municipalities, it is a contribution to the central expenditure in the defence. I think the government is doing everything they can. I'll give you an example. For example, in November, he decided on HUF 416 billion in subsidies, tax reductions and family measures. This amount also shows that the government is doing everything it can to ensure that the economy remains viable, so that families feel as little as possible in terms of their existence during such a crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Antal Csárdi. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-159	Thank you very much for the floor. As I understand it correctly, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán spoke unprepared on Kossuth radio. I don't think so, but I don't know why voters should be deceived. The Prime Minister said it's steep, but it can still be groomed. During that time, you weren't prepared for this situation? Let me help you. I have collected what the withdrawal of the business tax would mean in the budget of a local government selected at random. In Szombathely's budget, 32 percent of the total budget would be deducted. In Szeged it exceeds 10 percent, in Székesfehérvár almost 54 percent is the rate of withdrawal, the IX. 29 percent withdrawal in the district, and 8 percent withdrawal in the district. It's more than 17 percent in the district. I think people deserve to see clearly. Please, Mr Secretary of State, answer me fairly, that you are planning something in this context. Thank you.
u2020-11-23-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-23-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can only repeat myself. So I can't decide that, and neither can the people present. If there is, or there will be, such a proposal, it will be discussed by the government. And don't give me words in my mouth I didn't say. But he did mention local governments. I'm also going to mention to you a very well-supported mayor and city council, your capital city. Today it was found that the capital's sales of business tax in the first ten months had already reached the whole year of the previous year, 99.2 percent. This means that the lamentation, the flood of complaints, the government for a milk cow, a mayor's view of a giver has failed. The capital has a business tax income, which has already been proven, because the chief notary himself wrote to the government man that the tax revenue did flow, and the capital could farm if it wanted to. That's what I'm offering you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Dear Mr. Messenger, Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. The floor now belongs to Congressman Bence Tordai, the notary of Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, the European Commission's report on education systems in EU Member States came out and painted a rather devastating picture of Hungarian education. In headlines: drastically deteriorating student performances, increasing dropout, unequal access to quality education, worrying shortage of teachers, increasing segregation. These are the most important findings of this research. The thing is, you've been on the government for ten years, and these results have been deteriorating for ten years. Let me highlight some of the numbers. [[14.40]] Among the 15 - year - olds, the proportion of underperforming is now more than a quarter in most areas. This means that one out of four young Hungarians will come out of school practically functionally illiterate; it means that they will not be able to stand their ground in the labour market, they will be able to do a trained job, public work or even more unemployed. We already see the proportion of young people aged 16-18 who neither study nor work have doubled in recent years. This report shows that the biggest difference in performance between schools is in Hungary, and the second biggest difference between children with better and worse family backgrounds is also in Hungary. In higher education, only the disadvantaged are represented at 1.4 percent, and segregation is increasingly prevalent in church schools. I could continue to classify disappointing results. All these things have in common that it is not the children's fault, not the teachers' fault, but the fault of your education policy. They've been steering for ten years, so I hope you don't start pointing backwards. My question is that this was the goal, or if that was not the goal, then the person responsible for these results will resign. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-164	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I look forward to the festive moment here in this House, when, let's say, the results of Hungarian education or any other sector can also be proud of the results of left-wing representatives. You, the Hungarian teachers, the Hungarian students, can only say that it is devastating and it is at the end of Europe. Honourable Congressman, You have tried to avoid any number in this report. Low-performing students: in three years, the proportion of underperforming students decreased from 27.5 to 25.3 percent. You're not happy about this. You're saying it's devastating. In the field of science, the percentage of underachievers has decreased from 26 percent to 24.1 percent, and you say that this is devastating. In the field of mathematics, the proportion of underperforming students has decreased from 28 to 25,6 percent in three years, and you say that this is devastating, while the proportion of better performers has increased. You say that the worst part of Hungarian data in Europe is that if your family background is more disadvantaged, you cannot perform well in school. The proportion of these students, where the impact of the family background has reduced the student's performance, decreased from 26 percent in 2009 to 19 percent. Today we are there as Germany and France in this proportion, and you say that we have the worst data in Europe, honourable Member. Why can't you once in your life be proud of what Hungarian people, Hungarian students and Hungarian teachers achieve by finally improving the numbers of Hungary in PISA measurement and the OECD statement? In fact, they still deny the left-wing myths that you say here in Parliament, or, let's say, in proportion to GDP, how much we spend on education. Here, in this statement quoted by you, the EU average is 4.6, the Hungarian average is 5.1. The share of education in the budget in the statement quoted by you is 9.9 in the 27 EU Member States; 11 in Hungary, and adds the 10 percent increase in teachers' wages this summer and the 30 percent increase in directors' salaries. Be proud of the performance of Hungarian people, Hungarian students and Hungarian teachers! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Congressman Bence Tordai, notary.
u2020-11-23-167	Thank you. I am proud of the performance of teachers and students to achieve results in such counterwinds. However, I am not proud that Hungary has a government that denies reality. If you want numbers, then listen, and now listen to the lyrics, because I haven't talked about the last three years, I've been talking about the last ten years. Reading and reading grew from 17.6 to 25.3 percent by nearly 8 percentage points in underachievers. In the period 2009-2019, the percentage of underachievers in natural sciences increased from 14.1 to 24.1 percent in the ten years period; this is a 10 percentage point increase. Exodus has decreased everywhere in Europe, and Hungary has grown as an exception. Teacher salaries are also much lower in proportion than the EU average: 61-70 percent of other graduates. Your education policy failed, and that's why you're going to fail in 22 and then build an equalizing, child-centred education system that supports teachers and compensates for disadvantages from home. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-168	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The left couldn't show this, he could only show us which was the only government to reduce the pay of teachers, all his Hungarian teachers, whether he teaches in primary school, in high school or in university. Honourable Congressman, It is not the wrong education policy of our ancestors, but the one where the quality of education in the system that runs up under the laws we have adopted is different than in the past. You said that the early school dropout rate has increased. That is not true, honourable Member. I have to tell you again: while this rate was 12.5 percent in the previous survey, it is now 11.8 in the recent survey quoted by you. This indicator has also improved, as we can be proud in Hungary that the employment rate of those who are out of the education system was 75.5 percent, now 85,6 percent, which is a very positive feedback on education and the economy. As opposed to our 85.6%, the EU average is 80.9 percent. Honourable Congressman, If not looking at the legacy of the previous period [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] but our results, thanks to God, can find positive changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what danger is the political influence of György Soros? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Last week György Soros thought that once again the world should be informed in a false way about what was happening in Hungary. In his brief English-language article, he commanded, in addition to the usual slanders, that action should be taken against Hungary and, of course, Poland. In addition to the unfounded slanders, he has now made comments on the Hungarian elections due two years later, encouraging the left-wing cooperation. Alongside that belief in the left, which produces false news in the middle of a pandemic, lies about hospitals, vaccine, tests, health care workers, and interferes with protection. It is not surprising that Soros has returned to the scene, since he has already intervened in the internal affairs of several countries, even in times of crisis, unsolicited. The billionaire, with his financial measures and his machinations, had beaten the pound earlier, put the German brand in jeopardy, and thus the German merger, and I might add. Why would he want to miss Hungary? Why wouldn't he want to control me here? It seems that the electoral Soros list is made; Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of the left, writes and the client is György Soros. From DK to Jobbikon, MSZP, LMP and Momentum, they will all sign up for it. We can say that the formation of the Hungarian pro-immigration coalition is imminent. The left wants to overthrow the Hungarian government because the national government opposes immigration. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: what are the attacks on Hungarian measures against illegal migration? How much influence does George Soros have within the European Union? And how do you try to put pressure on Hungary? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-172	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Balázs Orbán, I give you the opportunity to respond. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, With reference to your question, I would like to inform you that we are meeting on a daily weekly basis from the Brussels institutions with measures to attack Hungarian immigration policy. It is not so long ago that the Luxembourg European Court of Justice itself knocked out the transit zone procedure that provided for the legal border closure in Hungary in addition to the physical border closure. Moreover, the Strasbourg court, who is not a great friend on these issues, even they have acknowledged that it is not fundamentally contrary to international provisions, and yet the Brussels institutions have forced us to change the rules. The new regulation that we have adopted, we believe that it complies with our international EU obligations on the one hand, but on the other hand it ensures the air-tight protection of the Hungarian border. As a result, asylum applications can only be lodged at certain embassies. This is the measure against which Brussels has opened another infringement procedure. [[14.50]] There are ongoing legal battles in this regard. I can report to you that our troops are fighting, but if you look at the criticisms of Hungary, whether by MEPs or European Commission officials, it is quite clear that the problem for them is that Hungary is taking an anti-immigration position based on the will of the Hungarian people. We want to hold on to this position, and therefore we expect continuous attacks. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is addressed to Congressman Barna Sigismund. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, the fact is that, according to Brussels, democracy exists only in countries that allow illegal immigrants in, and it is now nothing more than trying to blackmail us. György Soros said this blackmail idea to Brussels already in 2015. Unfortunately, there is nothing surprising either that the Hungarian left side has joined György Soros, and our country is constantly being reported to both the institutions of the European Union and the institutions of the Council of Europe. I myself am a member of the Hungarian delegation at the Council of Europe, and I am saddened to see that the Hungarian left betrays the nation there as well, and I also regret to see that civil society organisations financed by György Soros are constantly appearing as experts. In recent days, it has been made public that the Council of Europe is strongly supported by György Soros and that, not only civil society organisations of his interest are constantly involved in the various Commission proceedings and the College, and, as the Secretary of State has also referred to the European Court of Human Rights, as several studies have shown, György Soros has influenced it. This is intolerable and unfortunate. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-23-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This is all the more sad, because the rule of law is a concept that is part of the hundreds of years old, it can be said that thousands of years of European legal traditions, and it is quite unfair to use such an important principle of law as a political blackmail instrument, which Brussels is currently doing to instigate George Soros organisations. It is quite clear that the accusations that are made there have nothing to do with the concept of the rule of law, they can be considered as part of a political, ideological struggle, and we believe that such an important principle of law could not be used for this fundamentally unsupported, unacceptable political purpose. It would be good to have agreement on this in the Hungarian Parliament, no matter what we think about political issues. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: . How does the government help workers and businesses during the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-23-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, First, I would like to thank the people who have cooperated in the enforcement of the rules, the health workers working at a strained pace and, of course, the Government of Hungary, which has taken the complex measures to mitigate the harmful consequences of the crisis caused by the virus. In addition to protecting people's lives and health, it is important to protect businesses and to preserve people's jobs in the fight against a coronal virus epidemic. During the second wave of the epidemic, the government took a number of measures for entrepreneurs and workers. At the time of the curfew, the government helps the accommodation by paying the affected 80% of the revenue loss calculated on the basis of the pre-bookings. Restaurants and recreational facilities do not have to pay contributions for these 30 days for their employees and the State will reimburse half of the wages of workers if they are paid. It is also worth mentioning the facilitation for carriers that, as in the first phase of the coronal virus epidemic, the government suspended the weekend truck stop. In this way Hungarian companies can organise their transport tasks more flexibly, speeding up the supply of shops, warehouses and factories. Dear Secretary of State, I ask what further government measures are expected to help workers and businesses during the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic. I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply.
u2020-11-23-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me, as a first sentence, to join you in what you have said, that I should like to thank all those involved in the defence, especially health workers, doctors and nurses who do superhuman work. But let us not forget those who have joined their work, whether health students, medical candidates, medical students, nursing students or all those students who volunteered to join in the defense, there is a great thank you to them as well. And there is a great thank you, I think, for the police and soldiers that provide public order, and for all the companies, workers and Hungarian people who respect the rules fairly, and who pay attention to the fact that we can slow down the spread of the epidemic as much as possible, while maintaining the operation of Hungary. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to say that the past decade has proved that Hungarian people want and can make a living from work. It is therefore the strong position of the Hungarian government that it is necessary to provide subsidies that can help to preserve jobs and create new jobs. At the beginning of the second wave, it is worth highlighting the subsidies that the Member has mentioned and which are for the sectors most affected: hospitality or even the tourism sector. Indeed, we also support their work with wage subsidies, tax and contribution reductions and other subsidies. We have two conditions, two very important conditions: keep the workers and pay their wages. If you do that, you'll get the support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman László Földi a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-23-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I would like to note that in my constituency there are also several companies that have taken advantage of the opportunities offered by the government to businesses. I also mention it because I consider it important for high school students to provide free internet services, which is now authorised by the government, introduced for 30 days, and not only for students, but also for legal representatives or educators. They all have an effect on the country's ability to recover as soon as possible, to get through this epidemic, and then we hope that everything will be in its place. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-23-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-185	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to refer a few more measures to the Parliament myself, which, I think, can give serious help and support to the sectors most affected. For example, to reduce the VAT on food delivery to 5 percent, which allows them to deliver to customers cheaper, where appropriate, or to spend their own resources on the wages of their own employees. However, it is also linked to the fact that we have eased the administrative burden on delivery, i.e. involving other businesses, such as taxi drivers, which can help not only the restaurant sector, but also the transport sector. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2020-11-23-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. As for Congressman Adam Steinmetz, please.
u2020-11-23-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, They've just handed over the two-track 67, which I thank on behalf of the Somogy citizens. However, the renovation of road 67 was not followed by the renovation of road 68, even though we have been promised several times by the government. As a result, people living in the areas of Two Seas, Marcali and Böhönye must continue to travel along the dangerous road. The main road with the traffic of 11,000 vehicles a day is in a catastrophic state, the road's hull is depressed, messy, shattered. In connection with the renovation of road 68, Attila Móring József recently said that this was already decided, a contract was signed and it was cancelled. And there are spheres where they view it as having been built; they checked it, they closed the file, and they put it back on the shelf. Dear Secretary of State, Now take this file off the shelf, and please answer the following questions. What spheres is Attila Moring József talking about? How can you see in the Ministry what has not been built? Despite previous promises and decisions, why hasn't road 68 been fully renovated? And if they haven't done this before, they're willing to do it in 2001 During the renovation of road 68? Yes or no? Let's wait for an honorary answer.
u2020-11-23-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. For the record alone, I think you meant 2021, because you accidentally said 2001. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz: Yes, I'm sorry.]] Thank you very much. The answer is for Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, please.
u2020-11-23-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm always happy when you assume that I have all the policy issues in my head about the sectors of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, and so you submit your question by saying yes or no? Not telling me exactly what you're curious about. Honourable Congressman, After that, to demand a political and professional response, I think that it is definitely unfair, and it shows well that you want to use the genre of immediate questions only and exclusively for political benefit. But, honourable Member, this is not surprising from you, because we see that the Jobbik are struggling to survive, selling himself. The only thing he deals with is how he can invite some of his representatives to join the Gyurcsány party list, hoping to ensure the survival of some Members. Honourable Congressman, Let's be absolutely clear. No government has ever done more than the national civilian government to correct the state of the Hungarian roads. This much road development has never been achieved; this many new roads have never been built; this many renovations have never been completed; we have never given such resources to the municipalities in order to enable them to implement their own inland roads. And the party on whose list you're about to ask, in the face of all the earlier principles, lying about Jobbik's founding statement, lying about the fact that they were created to fight against the Communist successor party and the liberals, they were the ones who did everything they could to destroy the Hungarian roads, and they were the ones who organized road development for their buddies in all sorts of difficult constructions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. One-minute rejoinder from Congressman Adam Steinmetz, please.
u2020-11-23-191	Mr. Secretary. Then again, are you willing to renew road 68 in 2021? And since you haven't given me any specifics, allow me to say so. That's 1004/2007. According to Government Resolution No. 68, the renovation of road 68 should have been completed seven years ago. All necessary authorisations and documentation were available for this already in 2010. The European Union has provided HUF 2155 million in funding for the preparation of the investment. Road 68 is, by the way, a number of years of hours in the national complex road renovation program. Dear Secretary of State, So EU money is available; permits are in place; legislation is in place; public procurement has been issued; export contracts have been concluded. Mészáros és Mészáros Kft. He's ready. With all due respect, when will road 68 be renovated? When will the machines appear in the Marcali area? Thank you very much for your reply.
u2020-11-23-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, boy! It's a tough situation.]]
u2020-11-23-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think I have answered all your questions in my previous speech. If you were serious about dealing with the problems of people living in that area, if you wanted to ask real questions in Parliament, wouldn't you submit your immediate question by saying yes or no? You'd ask the question. But all you want to do is a political circus, political purports here in Parliament. Honourable Congressman, I understand that you have to go down to the dog to be on the list of the Gyurcsány Party, but this is in your past, to say the least: it is very unworthy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-23-194	Dear Secretary of State, I believe that one of your comments will require an explanation to the Member. [[Z. Kárpát to Dániel Schanda Tamás János: You should testify against an Olympic champion... Dr. Ádám Steinmetz goes to János Schanda.]] Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. When will there be a discharge moratorium? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Minister Balázs Orbán appointed and justified Secretary of State for his reply. Mr László Csakács has the floor. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After all, I am so glad that I gave my immediate question such a decent title. The health, financial and housing security of families is the most important. I think we agree on that. However, you voted against two of our proposals that would have helped precisely this, because in one of them we suggested that there should be a social band for those who cannot pay even their minimum living expenses, and one cubic meter of water, 30 kilowatts of electricity, 15 cubic meters of gas, so that families would have to pay for it either without having to pay or a symbolic amount, because now there are very many people who are losing their jobs, unable to pay their bills. There are a lot of people who work from home, or soon, even under a legitimate measure, they will be ordered back to their homes by the government, because there must be some way to stop the virus, and then they will not be able to go anywhere. But if they turn off the services because they don't make enough money, because they can't pay them, or they've already lost their jobs, and the 90 days you've given them to find work again, while the epidemic is raging, they can turn off public services, water supply, gas supply, sewerage, electricity supply. Secretary of State, these are the XXI. I'm sure they're not gentlemanly pranks in the century, but they're part of the basic needs of life, and we're afraid that many people might get in such an unworthy position that because they've lost their jobs, because they can't work from home, or simply because they're forced to stay at home with their school-age children, so they can't earn enough, but they're going to consume more, so they can turn off the power. Why were these proposals voted off, Mr Secretary? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-23-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We agree that helping those most in need is a common task for all of us. That is why it is sad that when you have had the opportunity to help these people from a government position, you have failed to do so and, for example, have doubled the price of electricity and three times the price of residential natural gas. [[15.10]] Compared to salaries, the price of gas and electricity was the most expensive for Hungarian families throughout the European Union before 2010. Therefore, in 2010, we announced a government policy that broke up with previous ones and implemented a total reduction in district heating, gas and electricity prices of 25 per cent, which, unfortunately, was unprecedented in the post-system change period. This is why, if you look at the statistics, utility debts depend on the category of electricity, natural gas, district heating in the household has decreased by 50, 75 and 35 percent. The share of households that cannot pay their bills on time has been halved, and it can be said that Hungarian consumers pay the second lowest unit price for electricity and gas supply in Europe at the moment, relative to their revenues. Moreover, the number of off-line retail consumers has also been significantly reduced by more than 60 percent over the past period. Clearly, it is no coincidence that the real income of the poorest households has increased to the greatest extent over the past period, and that economic measures to control the coronal virus epidemic are being put together to help this social group in a targeted way. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-23-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Well, that answer doesn't make it any warmer than anyone else at home, and it doesn't mean what happened 10 and 12 years ago. You give gas more expensive than you buy it, much more. This year, the price of gas was 30 forints on the stock market. You give it to the Hungarian families for 101, the profits among them will be skimmed by your oligarchs. Why can't the Garanchi make a little less money this year?!The other Honourable Secretary of State, I asked you about the discharge moratorium, how is it that the ugly thing that can happen to a multinational company, E.ON, comes to mind sooner than the government? It has already announced from Santa Claus, from 6 December to the water cross, they do not turn off Hungarian service providers, because they feel more responsibility for the Hungarian people than the government, which refuses to take this measure. Well, is it ugly, Mr. Secretary of State, that a multinational would think of taking care of Hungarian families before the government? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-11-23-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-23-201	Congressman, you may be here in Parliament and you have the right to make good speeches, but unfortunately, the test of reality cannot be met by what you have said. On the one hand, I believe that from the position where you talk about reductions in electricity and gas prices, at least not appropriate, it is, however, that these prices are lower than they were when you were in the government. It was before the crisis, and so it is now. Moreover, NKM Zrt. did not only do so by a foreign service provider, but as a member of the MVM group. He has also voluntarily declared such a discharge moratorium, so there is no difference between foreign and Hungarian-owned companies in this sense. This will also help to improve the situation of the most deprived. Once again, the ratio of the number of families in Hungary is much better than it was in 2010, and this required the economic policy that has failed below you and has been operating for ten years now. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-23-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 3:14 p.m., and that concludes the immediate questioning period. In view of the fact that no political group has asked for a question, this item will not be discussed. So we've come to the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. He applied for a post-meeting speech from the KDNP Group: We are proud of Bence Rétvári with the title of the Hungarian military rider's tradition. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We Hungarians are especially proud of our riding traditions. The equestrian archery is ancient Hungarian fighting manners for centuries. Throughout history, the style of horse archery was almost completely forgotten, until Lajos Kassai began to revive him in the late eighties. Fortunately, it can now be said that his work has matured, that the horse archery has become recognized both at home and globally. Horse arching is much more than sport and martial arts. Tradition and tradition creation, preservation and maintenance of national identity, community building, value placement. The Kassai cavalry method has been Hungaricum since 2013. Because of Hungaricum, it expresses unity, unity, and nation-consciousness. Horse arching is the method of better and nobler manhood, based on the highest harmony of body and spirit. By it, the individual can recognize the limits of his physical performance and his mental readiness to shoot at the target. The harmony of body and spirit leads man to know himself fully. During horse arching, not only the body and spirit, but also the harmony of man and nature are realized. The individual must break out of the built environment and rediscover what it is like to live with nature and its changes, to be in harmony with the horse and all other creatures. In order to be able to practice horse archery effectively, one must show respect. Respect for nature, animals, body and spirit, fellow sportsmen, and not least the ancestors. The values represented by the ancestors are those that serve as guidance. You don't have to follow the ancestors on their own, you have to follow what the ancestors followed. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Man draws from the past in order to become a noble and exemplary man in the future. Horse arching cannot be carried out without great discipline. You have to behave with discipline both out of the field and out of the field. The goal is that sooner or later, the cavalry archer will be able to control himself. The certification of disciplined behaviour is also necessary in the performance of training and competition tasks. Discipline makes the individual fit to become a horseman. Through a long and sweaty process, one can become a horseman. Perseverance is an essential condition for achieving the individual's intended goals. Endurant work teaches the individual that the desired goals cannot be achieved without it. It is not enough to think about and want the outcome, but to do it constantly every day. Endurance enables one to estimate the results achieved. Lajos Kassai's methods and values transmitted by horse archery can be followed as an example in all areas of life, regardless of people's occupation and interests. Mutual respect and respect for one another, the love and respect of nature around us, discipline and perseverance work, and respect for our ancestors can be included in everyone's own securities. The method can also be transplanted into pedagogy. The Kassai method teaches children self-knowledge, discipline, dedication, encourages them to achieve their goals, sets an example for them to follow. The experiential horse archery, playing and laughing, teaches young people these values and implants patriotic thinking and national identity in them. We're proud. We are proud of Lajos Kassai, who has devoted his life to making these outstanding values available to as many people as possible, encouraging them to develop continuously. We are proud of our Hungarian horse archery tradition as part of a millennia of Hungarian culture. We are proud that we have been able to make horse archery known not only to Hungarian people, but to almost the whole world over the last three decades. We are proud that in the last 26 years there have been 7062 riders in 582 races. We are proud of The Horseman's Film, and we are proud of Hungarian national history. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-23-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Dudás, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for a post-meeting speech: I am not looking for those responsible, I am looking for solutions. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2020-11-23-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We've been in a situation since spring that no one's expected. We didn't expect it, but our daily lives have been determined by the presence of the virus, which is a challenge for some people, but also an additional burden for other people. They are the workers of the sectors in which we have maximum confidence. You cannot thank healthcare workers enough for their sacrifices, you cannot thank social workers enough for their work. I would like to point out that it is not possible to thank each of our countrymen enough for the exemplary and disciplined attitude and attitude that we are trying to achieve and predict that this nightmare will be over as soon as possible, and that we will be able to overcome the virus situation as soon as possible. I would like to highlight one sector here, and I have already mentioned the health and the social sphere, but it is the teachers who may not be rightly mentioned. For them, the spring and early summer periods were a new challenge, a challenge they had to face with tools, a fleet of tools, a level of development that had not otherwise been supported by digital education. They couldn't do their job the way they wanted. Of course, I have to mention the situation of parents quickly here, because in addition to their parental work and duties, they had to quickly become teachers, in many cases they had to be with their children as teachers, using not only this year, but in many cases also next year's vacation. It can be said, however, that teachers and teachers have done everything they can in this difficult situation to relieve parents of burdens and to provide children with adequate education so as to acquire knowledge and not to fall behind in the field of education. In my line of work, I used to say I'd say I was looking for a solution, not a responsible one. That is what I do now when I say that urgent assistance is needed in many institutions. I would like to give two examples on this subject. One good example is the Gyöngyösi Kálváriaparti School, on which I have already been through a number of speeches, a number of briefings and a number of written questions. I also have a written question at the head of the district and the competent State Secretary of the Ministry. It can be said about the Gyöngyös school that there, as in many other institutions, teachers and educators do their work at a very high level, but the circumstances are not given, so it is necessary to take the appropriate steps of the Parliament and the government to ensure that, in addition to the quality of education, the conditions are also adequate. The other one is Mátraballa school. I'm from Matraballa, I've lived there since birth, and before I became an MP, I was mayor of Matraballa. I have been speaking for years at the National Assembly or at the Heves County Assembly for nine years in order to improve the situation of schools and small schools, in order to do everything possible to ensure that these rural schools work well. It takes two things to work well. One: professional decisions must be made by decision-makers and not political ones. I mean, believe me, you have to go down to the country, you have to come down to the country, because I believe everything seems to be okay from here, but believe me, there's no need for much help. How much of a reason does that exist? So much so that this year's Gábor Varga award was won by the teachers of the Mátraballa school. They're not just teachers, they're a little parents. In such a school, they are supportive of children and parents because of the immediate family environment. This is important for children as well as for parents, since it is important for parents to be able to know their children safely and with proper education. I can also congratulate the two teachers of the Matraballa school and all teachers and teachers of the pedagogical profession. We thank them for the sacrifice they have done in recent years and are doing it now. They're the ones who did what they did, and the National Assembly has to do the same. Allow me to conclude with a Széchenyi quote: "The power of a nation lies in the multitude of educated heads of men. We have to keep that in mind. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. With the title of Culture for Szolnok, Mrs Mária Kállai from the Fidesz Group applied for the post-meeting address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-23-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, As a representative of the county seat, the 1st constituency of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, allow me to share in the National Assembly the latter development results of Szolnok county town. Practically everything that belongs to the development of a city cannot be said in five minutes, so I would like to highlight and put on the speaker of some of the cultural developments. In recent years, Szolnok's city has undergone a very serious shift in image, if only this area is highlighted. A city is often judged on the basis of its churches, public spaces, and institutions. In Szolnok, Mr. Mayor and the city's leadership have paid particular attention to community creation, the strengthening of identity and local patriotism. This is precisely why it is very happy that in this purpose Szolnok city has found support in the Government of Hungary. In 2015, the Hungarian Government launched the programme "Modern Cities" and a number of improvements were launched in Szolnok. One of our most important investments was the renewal of the historic core of our city, the Szolnok Art Institute. The renovation was HUF 2 billion 600 million, and from a technical and professional point of view it was highly justified. As a result of the development, a unique complex was built throughout the country, ten studio apartments were renewed, accommodations were established, a new graphic and sculpting workshop was built. We can say that the colony was reborn in 2020. The oldest, 118-year-old artist colony in Hungary is located in a wonderful creative environment in the heart of a medieval castle, so it is not surprising that very serious and valuable archaeological findings have been discovered, and Szolnok can thus recreate his medieval history. This is precisely why a visitors' centre is currently being built, with a cost of virtually another HUF 2 billion in support. Those who go to Szolnok can see that the Szigliget Theatre is currently being fully renovated. It's a $7 billion investment in the city's cultural future. This is a responsible continuation of the development of the last ten years in the field of culture, since Agora Aba-Novák, the new institutions of the RepTár Szolnok, are related to community and culture. It is particularly important to add to this area the vision of schools and educational institutions. There is also a welcome series of developments in this area, which Szolnok can present. The development of kindergarten and nursery is of paramount importance to the city. In the last three years, two kindergartens were rebuilt for more than one billion HUF. Currently, two kindergartens are being built and a kindergarten is being renovated, costing HUF 1 billion 600 million. Two nurserys are being built, and this is also a billion and a half investment in the future, and it certainly gives children with special educational needs the opportunity to go to a nursery. It is a joy to say to Szolnok that our faith life is growing, one of the consequences of this is that our churches are being renewed. Our two Roman Catholic churches are renewed from 1.5 billion forints, but practically all of them are renovating and renewing a church with state support. But there was also money to renovate the Reformed Evangelical Church. The ecomenic chaplain circle and our church communities are a great asset to our city. The sport of leisure and competition is also part of our culture, and recreation is now part of our lives. Our city's Tiszaligeti Beach Bath is also under renovation, which is why it is important that we refurbished the Véső út MÁV Beach Bath. The sports site next to it has been modernized, its halls, orbits, and its service facilities have been completely renovated so that our students, athletes and fencing contestants can play sports in decent conditions. Thank you for your support of about HUF 3 billion. Thanks to the Hungarian government, because only the above lists could achieve 20 billion state aids. Of course, this requires economic strength, which is also the basis for the development of our city, and the presentation of this and further developments defining the Szolnok's vision will be the content of a next comment. [[15.30]] Dear Parliament, I believe that we can truly create value only if, in addition to good economic indicators, there is order in our heads and hearts, and we remain strong in our traditions. On this path, we would like to confirm the presence of higher education in Szolnok, continue the institutional renovations started, the reconstruction of medical clinics started, the renovation of the library, the museum and the synagogue. I am sure that we can count on the Government of Hungary in this too. Allow me one more sentence. The protection of the health of our countrymen is above all in the pandemic situation. I would like to thank everyone who does their work in this area with a heart and soul. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-208	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The Fidesz Group also spoke after the agenda, Mr Péter Hoppál, with the title of "Governor Billionaire Government" and "Money Raining" for Pécs and Komló. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear from the opposition's speeches that our attitude is very different from that of the government's gestures in support of the countryside. Rural developments are being discussed, new government decisions are coming along that will expand the opportunities of rural Hungary, and new developments will be reported in the bulletins. My fellow opponents say that it is time to go down to the countryside and look around. I believe that they did not go to the countryside, as a whole series of government decisions contradict the statements made by them. Now from the perspective of Pécs and Komló, from the perspective of Baranya's 2nd constituency, if we look at the government decisions of the last few weeks, we can say that, looking back almost until the change of regime, such a significant, complex, interrelated package of government aid has arrived in this region very, very rarely. We are very pleased that, overall, the improvements contained in the contracts concluded by the Government and the City of Pécs under the . Modern Cities programme are progressing well. These developments have been strongly supported by the government since last year's municipal elections. Our great sadness is that the left-wing town of Pécs has been saying that the government has abandoned the cities during this period. Unfortunately, this is the same lie, and everyday life denies these statements, as we are constantly hearing about the capital. Therefore, we find that this particular government rain brings very significant improvements to the city of Pécs, despite the fact that Pécs's government leadership has become left-wing. All state funding for the projects, which has been published in the Hungarian Gazette in recent weeks, is close to HUF 30 billion. We are talking about decisions beyond the. Modern Cities programme. The largest development, the largest investment in the, modern cities, was a 25 billion-dollar item, the campus development of the University of Pécs, with which the government set the goal of doubling the number of foreign students of the University of Pécs three or four years ago. This is important because foreign students contribute significantly to the maintenance of services in Pécs every year to the amount of HUF 10 billion spent. Therefore, campus development is also in the same interest of the city, the region. For the 25 billion-dollar campus development to be completed, the government has now voted for a 5,7 billion-plus grant, and this has cost more than 30 billion of all funding resources to invest in the one and only Modern Cities. In addition, the government voted for an additional HUF 420 billion in support of the new market hall in Pécs, in order to ensure that the new management can implement the full programme and not reduce the previously set development goals. Another solar park has earned 300 million forints as new government development and support, which complements an earlier HUF 750 million development. The Dárda football academy has now decided on another HUF 800 million grant to support its previous 800 million construction, which will enable the city to complete the semi-finished building, so the development started at the time of the previous city leadership will not be distorted. It is a good thing that in two cultural cases the government has made a positive decision in favour of Pécs. The agreement between the State and the City of Pécs National Theatre provides the highest support of 520 million in rural national theatres, and the government paid the money to the city's account after the agreement. Also Zsolnay Heritage Management Nonprofit Ltd. Nearly two billion operating grants were paid in full by the city, despite the fact that only three to four months of operation was realised by the institution. In the town of Komló, the government has supported major developments of 3.5 billion magnitudes in recent weeks. So we are very pleased that with these decisions the Government of Hungary demonstrates that those opposition statements on the left, that it would have left the countryside, the rural cities, the government, they are not true, they are false. We also ask opposition representatives to work for their districts and not to talk nonsense. Thank you for the government's support.
u2020-11-23-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Why does Fidesz hurt the Buda? Mr Bence Tordai, notary of the Parliament, applied for a speech from the Group of Dialogue after the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The Fidesz government really behaves like an aggressive party in an abusive relationship, not only against the Buda people, but also in every city, every settlement, every district where they were defeated in last year's municipal elections. The Fidesz is double vengeful to us, because the mayor's title and the local district mayor's title were entrusted by the Hungarians to a Republican emotional politician. That's why they have to pay double. But we have seen that he punished not only Buda during the spring epidemic, but practically every city was rewarded by Fidesz politics and even by the Fidesz-led settlements as a reward for what was being punished by the opposition. We see that due to the withdrawal and the economic crisis caused by the epidemic, both Budapest and the districts lose roughly five percent of their income and even a quarter of their income. It's like a hole in the national budget of 5,000 billion forints suddenly emerges. Moreover, the government does not allow these temporary losses to be replaced by borrowing by the capital city or, where appropriate, by other municipalities. So, on the one hand, the Fidesz government is trying to keep Buda and other settlements and districts financially dependent. Moreover, what is being done in the name of an epidemic is far more damaging in many cases than it is being used. I am thinking, first of all, of free parking, which, in the first wave of the epidemic, has proven to be damaging, not only financial damage to the municipalities; it is more important to see how it makes life difficult for residents and how it affects air quality, which is particularly important in the case of a virus that causes upper respiratory tract disease. What I see in the forums in Buda is that people constantly and rightly complain that they cannot park in front of or around their own house, they cannot move, there are plugs, there is such an amazing increase in traffic because of the completely flawed, harmful free parking. This is something the Dialogue has repeatedly demanded to be withdrawn, and nothing has happened since then. What happened was also on the proposal of Mayor Gergely Christmas, making parking houses night-free, in case it helps, but this completely ruined disease management policy cannot be neutralized with this one small step. It is just as difficult not only in Buda, but also in many other downtown areas, that transit traffic is huge. There would also be a solution, for example, for this period making the M0 ring free would help a great deal, then again a few thousand cars would cut down on these inner settlements. So we ask the government once again to consider this, to consider the request of the Buda people, to consider the request of the mayor, Gregory Christmas, and finally to act, because he has the opportunity. However, it is not just these restrictions or measures, disguised as easing, that have a target counterproductive effect, that are hurting the Buda people now. [[15.40]] It hurts just as much that the government is completely ignoring the interests of its inhabitants, always just a matter of power and money that controls them. We see this at construction sites that either destroy our cultural heritage or our treasures, like the Radetzky barracks, against which we locals, as Members of Parliament, do nothing. However, we also see this in the case of so-called private investments, small-scale investments, that the right of municipalities to influence construction in any way was revoked. What do we see now? That, for example, next to the Apathy Rock, there is a tower crane branching along, completely amazingly controlling the environment, just as the house built there will dominate this unique natural treasure and ruin the ecosystem there and the view in the same way. So it would be nice for the government to get a little together, give the rights back to the municipalities, exercise restraint, and really not act like an abusive relationship. I understand that the Fidesz people are offended, and I understand that Mihály Varga, who failed as a Member of Parliament, is an offended man. I also see that today is the second one. In connection with the district, he allowed himself to make an anti-female, sexist comment. I don't think it's worthy of him, and I'm sure he's not worthy of the tone we used to in Buda. So I would like to ask that the government correct this for the next year and a half, and do not consider the Buda as an enemy. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-23-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the DK Group, a locksmith of a railway workshop, who commemorated the title of the leader of Árpád, Mr Hajdu László applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. We'll wait for Congressman to put the microphone on; feel free, Congressman, there's no problem. [[It's happening.]] That's where the time starts, please.
u2020-11-23-213	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to draw the attention of the Protocol and the House to a local historical specialty called the Chief of Árpád, who is a locksmith of a railway workshop. On Cancer Road on the 15th. It is a district, Rákospalota, who walks by, and sees that there is a monument that resembles a Holy Crown, long, 20-30 meters long, and has a lot of inscriptions on it and wonders what this structure is. This building was made by József Makay, a former locksmith worker of the nearby repairman. It is opposite the statue, almost opposite the family house, and using the free area of the railway charge in today's word, it could also be said that it commemorated the leader of the Hungarian occupation, Árpád leader, by means of an unauthorized construction. This memorial, which he prepared with his 17-year-old work, was inaugurated at a celebration organized by himself on the 1990 anniversary of the change of regime, decided for himself who he invited to this celebration, 30 years ago this year, and 20 years ago that the creator had left us, so he is no longer alive; I will now give a posthumous speech in his memory. I think that he created a spectacle and a special feature of his own decision, which took 17 years of his own small earnings, because he created this Árpád monument, which is today a spectacle of the district. One of the attractions where kindergarten teachers take preschool children out and tell them about the booking, Árpád leader, schoolchildren come here, retirement clubs, and even weddings when young people go out there and take pictures of themselves. So now it's a memorial that he once imagined, and he somehow thought of it that way. Personally, thanks to a long period of service, I was personally acquainted with Mr. József Makay, and I was also in his apartment. By the way, he was also a vine farmer, he had a large plot near the railway, and he tried to produce wine on the sand, and we tasted this wine at the time. And I know his idea, the beautiful things that an excellent locksmith man, who had over 30 innovations in the repair company, patented these innovations, so he's a very good professional who, besides showing great interest in history, and especially in national values. He did this as a Christian man. He was very popular, but a lot of people said that, well, the person who spends his money on this kind of thing, well... they smiled a little bit, and I didn't comment. We can thank József Makay for building the monument that consists of five elements. Of course, the inscription "Árpád" is engraved in the stones, the stones were bought and transported there by itself, and his name, Makay, is engraved in it, it is engraved in 1990, the year of the change of regime, and when the first generation arrived at the railway in his family, 1920, he has always tried to capture the tradition of railway generations here. Dear House, I think that important things of local historical importance should be said here in favour of a lot of hard debate, and I wanted to commemorate József Makay, the working man who had built a family house and a monument all his life and left this legacy to Rákospalota. Thank you for letting me know.
u2020-11-23-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-215	Mr President, Dear House, Today I recall that in 2016 Prime Minister invited all Hungarian families to a toast in the event that the IMF and the EU had finally paid back their loans in some way, and I shared the joy that Hungary was not exposed to foreign loans, their unrealistic interest rates. I also shared this joy when, in principle, the economic policy in Orbán could not change, and in many respects, it even deteriorated the exposure that had already been experienced in previous decades. And we have seen the agreement between Viktor Orbán and the German multi-enterprises and networks, according to which Fidesz-KDNP, as a perfect accommodation maker, fulfills the Hungarian economic climate to the colonial level, in exchange for the appearance of a warlike struggle on the European Union front, by the Orbán ministers' team. At the same time, we have also seen another intention at rhetorical level that the foreign exchange share in the public debt was constantly being reduced by this government, and that it was trying to replace as much as possible by selling Hungarian retail super government debt to retail and domestic shares. This alone would not be a despicable goal, which is surprising, but the amazing news of the last few days, according to which Hungary has taken out loans with a currency background of HUF 800-900 billion, has done so for 10-30 years; one half for 10 years and the other half for 30 years. This does not fit the vision of Orbán at all, and perhaps, in the spirit of the escape, Prime Minister wished to announce this himself, but it still destroys the appearance of patriotism, as they have been able to maintain only one appearance in the past, with a Chinese loan of 800 billion in one direction behind the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, and from the eastern direction we have discussed a great deal of further mega-loaning in recent years in Parliament. Now we have another foreign exchange bond issue, which is already the second one this year, and we note that, therefore, we could add even smaller ones to the Green Bond, and other actions under which this government will continue in the form of EUR 2 billion and EUR 1.5 billion, and then in the form of a government bond denominated in EUR 500 million of yen. [[15.50]] Perhaps, therefore, it is quite amazing what could be behind the processes: the evaluation of the Veto in Orbán, because they could, prepared for the veto, take the huge sums that they might use as a temporary buffer to try to rescue Hungary from the economic collapse. This can be done for a few months if they work only with these amounts, because it is clear that the use of the EU's credit or the aid fund is nobody's greatest wish. No one, by the way, likes to be long-term indebted between economic policies, but it is important to see that in the event of an emergency caused by a coronal virus epidemic, there is also a need for literal and metaphorical ventilators. If we have to choose whether to support or bring back or maintain tens of thousands of Hungarian jobs lost from EU funds, then I must say that this is an absolutely legitimate point of view and, on the one hand, the veto of the Orbán government is incomprehensible. On the other hand, it is very understandable, because the criteria of the rule of law that the Union would have laid down where appropriate would be able to expose all kinds of corruption channels in the Orbán Mafia state at systemic level, thus making them accountable and accountable for what could not have happened in a normal democracy, because in my view, the amazing concentration and perverse redistribution of power of the Orbán government in a pure democratic environment could not have been achieved, the only thing that is that if large or even international firms had suffered losses, the Orbán government would have collected them from Hungarian taxpayers and replaced them. There's an amazing flow chart. So let us be clear: if the EU tried to force any migration dictator to Hungary under the rule of law criteria, we would resist it; if they tried to force any dictator in the category of gender logic to Hungary, we would not support it, we would resist these issues. However, I called our MEP Márton Gyöngyösi at the beginning of this day, in consultation with him in detail with all the existing packages on the EU's table right now, and we have come to the conclusion that the net lies of Fidesz-KDNP simply cannot be found even at the level of Brussels-Strasbourg. That is why I call on the government part of the Hungarian political sorceress kitchen to stop lying, do not take away from the Hungarians the possibility of keeping the standard standards of their lives, and make up for the loss of wages. If you haven't done the pay union, at least don't let those who are now in acute and ongoing danger get lost. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-23-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. What's happening in Újpesten? Mr László Varju, Member of the DK Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-217	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Last week we celebrated the day of social work, and I would like to draw the attention of all of us to a few things in the light of this experience. The word "celebration" is, of course, an exaggeration, and it is worth returning to this on a number of occasions, since the Minister took care of it with two short sentences. Although the Fidesz administration has more and more victims every day, one group of those who are most injured and suffer as pariahs is social workers and caregivers who are working in this area, trying to make life easier for the poor, the fallen, the elderly, the disabled and the disadvantaged. The average salary of social workers, as mentioned here in Parliament today, was 193 thousand forints, by far the lowest of the average earnings of each sector. This is not a new situation: the worst-paid sector has been the worst ever since you came to government, which is unprecedented, since in 2010 the average wage of workers has decreased by five percent compared to the previous year, and from 2011 to 2015 it has decreased further year by year, and they had to wait until 2018 for their monthly earnings to exceed the 2009 level. This is not a rumor, but, as we have heard and as we see it, it is officially available on the website of the HCSO. Meanwhile, under the threat of an epidemic, social workers have to spend a lot of overtime and they have been denied a pay supplement. However, in the case of vulnerable workers in the social sector, the wage supplement itself would have been at least as justified, but their testing was only just started last week and it is not known whether it is actually being implemented. One of the biggest crimes of the Orbán government is this social insensitiveness that manifests itself towards this area. And then we don't talk about hundreds of thousands of people who are ignored. Last week, therefore, on the day of social work, when there was an opportunity and opportunity to deal with all this, this was also missed. For this reason, I think it is of particular importance that there are organisations that pay particular attention to this area, and that the Újpest municipality is now determined to take a concrete and important step. There is a good example of this: on this day in my constituency, the Újpest municipality gave a reward of HUF 50,000 to all social workers in the district. You can't run out of power! This was the most important statement of the call for attention, and he gave encouragement, by the way, to Mayor Tibor Déri and Deputy Mayor Máté Kanász-Nagy, when he greeted the celebrators and the awardees, because after the Újpest Summer launcher plus reward, he expressed his gratitude and respect for the sacrifice that the local government is doing in this area. We have 180 employees who may have received this supplement. The benefit of the Metropolitan Municipality also contributed to this, which was intended to be provided to workers in nursing homes, homeless shelters. Therefore, I think this addition is unheard of for those who work in areas such as the area of social work, and those who are at risk, and yet the government ignores their situation, does not help them, and for the municipalities that do so, I think it is a matter of recognition. Therefore, of course, to the workers, who are doing all this work, we must convey our thanks for their sacrifice, and I hope that they will have the strength to continue, because we can say: "We must not run out of strength! Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-11-23-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Also from the DK Group, Mr Zoltán Varga, with the title Debrecen in the fight for survival, applied for the post-meeting address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-219	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think we can say that the leaders of the city of Debrecen have been here for the last two decades. Whether Lajos Kósa or the current mayor are loyal, and I could say that he is a serene soldier of the system, who without a word perform everything they invent and embody on Lendvay Street. Fidesz does not view Debrecen for nothing, perhaps because Debrecen can be the new fist of the party state, the bezzegváros, which they may be able to build against Budapest. Many may think that Debrecen is in a privileged position because of this role; that, due to the prominent political and communication role of Lajos Kósa and the city, the government will in some way compensate for the effects of a series of measures that kill local governments in our city; that there is a real flow of money from the government to Debrecen, and it is true that in the coming years, the city will receive more than HUF 600 million of funds within the framework of the Debrecen 2030. Even though there is no future development, ministerial, State Secretary delegations, press conferences announced among all the glamorous externalities, there is no money, only empty words, without any particular content. But we can see that the mayor of the city is a disciplined governor of Fidesz, although the city's situation is no better than any opposition city despite party state propaganda. [[16.00]] However, unlike the leaders of Debrecen, they are at least silent when the government, practically by creating special economic zones, is levitating the position of the BMW plant. I have to add, we don't even know that this factory will ever be ready within a closed deadline. Just like the mayor didn't tell me when the Orbán class took away the car tax from the city, and that was about 720 million forints in the city's economy. But he didn't say anything when the Orbán government imposed a temporary suspension of the paying parking which was clearly designed to make Budapest impossible, and thus caused Debrecen hundreds of millions of forints of damage, not to mention that the traffic situation in the city is about as chaotic as it is here in Budapest. The mayor of Debrecen, as an organized Fidesz party soldier, welcomed the fact that the government also took away the support for transport from the municipalities, causing another HUF 450 million minus; I must add that in the case of a municipal company that is currently supported by the municipality by billions, only in order not to fail. Just as he did not raise his voice when the city was forced to borrow 1.4 billion in recent months, because the end-of-year tax charge was also abolished by the government. Debrecen's resources, thanks to this, are completely narrowed down, and you can see that the government's policies that hit local governments are also greatly affected by Debrecen. But the mayor also accepted that Debrecen would receive another government press around his neck by paying a quadrupled solidarity contribution. However, it seems that the moment has come when even the faithful Fidesz mayor of Debrecen rebels against his own government; the new, yet only on paper, government-tested, media-tested step, the suspension of the business tax even seems to be stuck in the throats of a politician as loyal as he is, and cannot be pushed down like the mayor of Debrecen. He is one of those who indicated that the new crazy government plan could be the last nail in the municipal coffin; taking away the business tax for Debrecen could mean the complete collapse and the end. The message of the party-state town should be a signal, a warning to the government, what the mayor of Debrecen says should be taken seriously now. Hands off the municipalities, because Debrecen won't survive this, and neither will any government. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-23-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's good for the maid. Or a report on the colony was submitted by Mr Ander Balázs to speak after the agenda from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-221	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the Cultural Committee listened to László Palkovics, Head of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, and this week Minister Kásler will present his annual report. Don't doubt it anyway, I suspect we'll be able to face it now, if I want to be subtle, with a report from a pink dome, and if I approach reality instead, then with a report on the situation of a country relegated to a colonial line. We can also face systemic problems in the field of education. The future will be the same as Albert Szentgyörgyi said today's school. Let's look at what education is like in Hungary today! Fidesz's educational policy is very well outlined in the sentence of one of the emblematic faces of Fidesz. What did Szilárd Németh say recently? He says too many people go to college, and it would be better if more people returned to the factories. Now, please, everyone knows, apart from Szilárd Németh, that a degree is a wage advantage, a degree is an employment advantage. Besides Szilárd Németh, everyone knows the benefits of having a higher education paper and a diploma, but there is a huge gap, the dissonance that can be observed between the words of the NER elite and this practice. Let's see what they're doing. Their own children are also preferred to be enrolled in secondary schools that require a million-dollar tuition, but if we think of Viktor Orbán, his daughter studied at Swiss school, where the tuition was 15 million forints, according to some news. This is what they not only want to talk young Hungarians out of, but they are also locked away from education here, and they recommend being a factory worker. There is nothing wrong with factory workers, yes, we will always need oily-handed workers with overalls, and we have all the respect for them, but we have to see that while in Hungary an average worker works, say, 1800 hours a year according to OECD data, a German worker works only 1400 hours. While, let's say, in Denmark they have 216 working days a year, in Hungary an average worker spends 233 days. And let's take a look at your average salary. Let us look at it, fellow Members, because the net minimum wage in Hungary is barely above 100 thousand forints, but this has already exceeded or has been very close to 170 thousand forints in Slovakia, and the Poles are closing in on this. Well, that's what they're offering, this maidhood, this disenfranchised existence for the Fidesz lords. This fits well in with the philosophy that Viktor Orbán gave back in Saudi Arabia when he tried to lure Arab investors here, how cheap the Hungarian workforce is and how flexible the labour code is. We all know what that means. It means that the Hungarian worker can also be cut wood on the back, unfortunately, because of the disenfranchisation. Then let's go back to the numbers of higher education. While 141 000 registered for universities and colleges in 2011, in 2020 this figure fell to 91 000. It's a historic low. And while 98 thousand young people were admitted to higher education in 2011, only 68,000 young people were admitted this year. If we look at European trends, it is terrible to say it, but we also need to see that among young adults, the proportion of graduates has fallen from 34 percent a few years ago to 30 percent. Let's see where it is, say, Poland: 46 percent among young adults. But I could tell you another country. In Lithuania, 58 percent of young adults have a university degree. Minister Palkovics said that Hungary is going through some kind of highech paradigm shift. How does this turn into a highech paradigm change, honourable Members? At this rate? Let's not joke. When 25 billion forints were taken away from universities? The latest report by the European Commission's Education and Training Monitor also came out, which also flashed sad numbers from the field of public education. On the other hand, what we are seeing now is that Jobbik wants to see a financially and morally respected pedagogical society in Hungary, and public education that is really fair, efficient and effective, and not the colonial state that we have to face from such reports. For we believe in the truth of Széchenyi:, the power of a nation lies in the multitude of educated heads, not in what Szilárd Németh said. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-23-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Who's the pro, and who's the amateur? Mr Steinmetz, also from the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-23-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Proud nation! Thank you, guys. Grazie Marco, Cosimo, Giovanni! This Molino was seen in the empty spot of centre B, in the Puskás Arena, after the Hungarian football team closing the great autumn march and finally defeating the Turks. The Hungarian national 11 qualified for the European Championship in Budapest in part, and reached the A League in the League of Nations. And as we all know, Ferencváros used to be on the main draw of the Champions League. Well, these are wonderful results, which, together, have been the case in Hungary for a long time. We should be proud of them. Therefore, I congratulate the players, the coaches, the sports leaders, the fans, and everyone who has been able to add a little bit to this success. [[16.10]] In the locker room, in swimming pool slang, we used to say this performance was professional. I'm glad we couldn't see this performance from the bleachers, these successes, because of the restrictive measures caused by the corona virus. I'm sure a lot of people would've gone out there right now to monitor the professional performance of professional intel. Speaking of restrictive measures and pros, let us also talk about amateurs. Prime Minister said earlier that amateur team sports are prohibited. Whether it's okay or not, we can argue about it, but the Prime Minister has made a decision, so we'll keep his decision. Then, shortly after, 484-2020 was published in the Hungarian Gazette. Government Decree No.3 which reads: . It is prohibited to exercise team sports in public areas, in public places and on sports grounds, except for training and sporting events for athletes in a competitive manner. If it's okay or not, we can argue about it, but we'll keep the government's decision. Within the framework of government advertisements paid during the course of the National Rescue Service, Pál Győrfi illustrates with pictures on all wavelengths that sports events are closed gates and amateur team sports are prohibited. Whether it's okay or not, we can argue about it, but we'll keep the government's decision. We're gonna keep it, we're gonna keep it, we're gonna keep it. Which one? I'm asking you. The Prime Minister's statement and the announcement by Pál Győrfi that amateur team sport is prohibited, or the government decree, according to which training and sporting events for competitive athletes are permitted regardless of their professional or amateur status. And then the question arises, in light of the fact that the daily routine of Hungarian citizens is not part of the browsing of the Hungarian Gazette, there is daily monitoring of government regulations. Is it possible that people in Hungary today decide about sports and advise the Prime Minister who confuse amateur sports with team games in recreational sports? Ladies and gentlemen, Sports knows that status is the difference between amateur and professional. Professionals make a living doing sports until amateurs get paid for sports. Therefore, if amateur sport is prohibited, there can be no struggle, for example, in the lower classes or in the replacement tournaments. But was it a ban on that? Obviously not. And that's coming out of the government decree, by the way. So amateurs who are athletes in the lower classes and replacements can also train and compete since the announcement. But the amateur also has another common language meaning: incompetent. It would be nice if sports were finally decided by people who know how to do it. The sports-loving Hungarians have been waiting for this moment for a very long time. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-23-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 30 November 2020. Now I want to thank everyone for their work, and I wish everyone a happy and successful homecoming. The meeting's closed.
