u2020-03-23-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 8th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce the deaths of two of our former fellow Members in recent years. Béla Szabadi obtained his mandate in the 1998 parliamentary elections from the Budapest regional list of the Independent Kisgazda Party. From 1998 to 2001 he worked as a member of the FKGP faction, then as an independent representative in the Hungarian Parliament between 2001 and 2002. Under his mandate, he was State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and Vice-President of the Committee on Information and Telecommunications and member of the Committee on European Integration Affairs. In addition to his political career in public life, he worked as an economic researcher and an economic analyst. He died in the 72nd year of his life. János Petrenkó obtained his mandate in the first free parliamentary elections on the regional list of MSZP Borsod county. From 1990 to 1992 he worked as a member of the MSZP faction and then as an independent representative in the Hungarian Parliament between 1992 and 1994. He was a member of the Economic Committee during his term of office. In addition to his political career, he was an industrialist and later an industrial entrepreneur. He worked for 25 years in the Ozdi Koházság Workshops and was one of the largest workers in the region as owner of the Ozd rough rolling mill. He passed away 80 years of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Every year, on 23 March, we celebrate the Hungarian-Polish Friendship Day together with Poland, which was decided in 2007 by the Hungarian Parliament and the Polish seym. The fact of Hungarian-Polish friendship and cooperation is well known. The saying begins, which is well known both in Poland and Hungary, and is an example of the friendship of the two peoples for centuries. This is also symbolized by the monument inaugurated in Győr in 2006, which depicts two oak trees with roots in each other and whose pairs in Poland are located in Jarosław. Hungarians and Poles are connected by many similarities in their history and often by common destiny. Prince Géza took up baptism just six years later than King Mieszko I of Poland, and the Hungarian and Polish states were born almost at the same time. They joined Europe at the same time. The relationship between the two royal houses, the Árpáds and the Piasts, was strengthened by marriages, and Kálmán Könyves received an eternal brotherhood. King Boleslav of Poland. Louis the Great is the 14th. He wore the Hungarian and Polish crowns at the same time. His youngest daughter, Hedvig, became Polish queen and founder of the Jagello house. Jagello rulers later sat on the Hungarian throne, uniting the two kingdoms under their sceptre at the end of the Middle Ages. Ladies and gentlemen, With the loss of independence, the two peoples' desire for freedom has also become common. ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi launched his freedom fight home from Polish soil, and in 1848-49, with General Bem's leadership, some 6,000 voluntary Polish soldiers arrived to support the Hungarians' freedom struggle. In 1918, the two peoples won their independence at the same time, and then, in 1920, Hungary helped the Polish fight against the Soviet-Russian army. After the German army invaded Poland in 1939, our country helped thousands of Polish refugees. It is also well known that in 1956 solidarity with the Summer Uprising in Poznań played an important role in the ageing of the Hungarian Revolution. About 30 years ago, in 1989-90, the determined struggle of the Polish Solidarity movement served as an example for the Hungarian system-changing forces. Since 1991, our relations have been strengthened in the framework of the Visegrád Four cooperation, and years later, our countries became members of NATO and then the European Union. The common history and community of the two peoples, which can be traced back centuries, establish everyday relationships that are deeper and indestructible than diplomatic ties. It is our shared responsibility to support these and to transcend them to our offspring. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today. I give you the floor.
u2020-03-23-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor because we declared an emergency in Hungary 12 days ago; we did this because a virus from Asia has reached Europe and has also appeared in Hungary. This infection erupted in Asia, but was also introduced into Europe. It is also true that this has hardly been avoided in the era of today's interconnected economies and societies. There is no cure for this virus at this time, although the world is determined to seek it. In Germany alone, 47 attempts are being made to develop vaccines. Hungary has recognized medical skulls, who are part of the international scientific and research community, and through them we Hungarians contribute to the great joint effort of humanity. This task force is led by Professor Ferenc Jakab. However, today we must say that, with the full effort of all mankind, it is not expected that the vaccine that protects against the virus will be available in the near future. We Hungarians have decided to fight the spread of the virus instead of waiting for the vaccine. If we can't eliminate it yet, at least we'll slow it down. We are studying the actions of other countries, and I see different countries making different decisions, each country responding to the crisis in its own national way. [[13.20]] In the usual order of things in Hungary, it would not have been possible to organise collective self-defense and jointly prevent this attack. Organizing collective protection, slowing down the rate of infection, protecting our vulnerable compatriots, ensuring adequate care, mitigating economic consequences and re-launching a paralyzing economy would not have been possible under peace-time rules. Ladies and gentlemen, Changing our lives is now inevitable. Everyone needs to step out of their comfort zone. For now, we need to work differently, behave differently, and each one of us has to organize his life differently. That is why we have introduced a different emergency legal order. This new legal order empowers the government and gives the government the means to organise Hungary's self-defense. Now, in this speech, I would like to report to my fellow Members on where we stand in organising the work of collective protection. We organized the defense on four lines, Hungary must stand at the same time on four battlefields: military defense, police defense, health protection and economic defence. We also knew that we knew that there were three stages of the virus's spread, and that protection had to be adapted. After the individual infection, we've moved to the stage of group infection, and from the numbers, I can see that we're now approaching the stage of mass infection with accelerating steps. This morning, 167 identified infected people in Hungary. I'd like to stress that you've identified me. This should be understood as a virus infection confirmed by control under laboratory conditions. Of course, it's important to know how many people the corona virus actually moved into, but we can only estimate that. I've also asked the best mathematicians in the country, virological experts, and Semmelweis Medical University to make estimates. They have been done, but they are not yet safe enough for us to talk about them in public, so I asked them for further work. As the number of cases increases, their estimations will obviously become more and more certain. But I'm not going to surprise you if I say that the current estimates are much higher than the identified confirmed 167 infected. I also report to you that 108 of the 167 identified infected are considered to be carriers with the coronal virus, but they do not show any symptoms, that is, in our common sense, they are not sick. He's infected, he's carrying the virus, but he's not sick himself, and we hope most of them aren't. 27 out of 167 confirmed infected people show symptoms, which means they're sick. They are the ones who are likely to recover even without hospital care. And we have nine out of 167 infected people in our country who are very sick. They are the ones who need hospital intensive care, and for whom we need to force them to recover. They can be cured, but they're in serious danger right now. And, Honourable House, we have seven dead. We sympathize with their families and pray for them. We also need to know that five out of the seven patients had heart, vascular and diabetes, one of the seven patients had cancer, and one with colon disease. The average age of our seven dead was 69 years. Everyone can see that we do so for a good reason by focusing protection on the elderly. Dear House, Hungary now has the following resources and supplies in the line of health protection. Medical mask: 1 million 500,000 pieces. We produce 25 grand a week, and if everything goes well, we can make 80,000 units a week. There are 129 thousand special masks. 20 million pairs of rubber gloves. 170,000 out of protective clothing. We have 2560 breathers. That's today's situation. We've sent scouts and raiders all over the world. Traders and diplomats work. According to the news, there is a shortage everywhere in the West today, available assistance is now only available in the East. There, however, we have tied down huge items, the shipments are constantly arriving, more than ten aircraft are on duty. However, I will only inform you about the numbers whose data are reliable, because the tools have already arrived in Hungary, are with us and are safe. The rest is uncertain. As far as hospital capacities are concerned, we have a total of 66 906 beds in Hungary and, if necessary, we can get 252 camp beds to work. We're gonna set these up. Our doctor under 65 is 19 431; our eligible resident is 4312; he can be used as a last-year medical student if they are qualified as deployable, and I think we will do this right if necessary for 900 people. A total of 24,643 persons are on medical duty and can be assigned here. Health professionals, i.e. professionals trained in medical work and under 60 years of age, there are 105,000 people in Hungary. We need to know that there are different records on the market. These records have been collected from the databases of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, State Treasury, National Public Health Centre, and are based on which we have compiled the data we have now provided to you, and based on these data we are also preparing a national management plan. Based on the quantity of supplies, the number of health workers that can be mobilised and the expected number of patients, the amount of equipment that can be used is set at what time. This morning, the operational tribe made the following decisions. From tomorrow morning, every doctor working beside an intensive bed will receive a special mask; every nurse working beside an intensive bed will also receive a special mask. The other doctors and nurses who work outside of an intensive bed get surgical masks. Anyone who is brought to a hospital under suspicion of a coronal virus will receive the surgical mask immediately. I have approved this decision of the operational tribe, the implementation has begun, and I hope that these instruments will all be available on the ground tomorrow morning. I asked the operational tribe for disciplined and rational stock management, because the defense will be long, there will be a lot of tools needed, and we are still at the very beginning. Thank you for all your work on health care. They've earned all our appreciation. Thank you, and we're grateful. I ask them to follow instructions on work and conduct. That's what we're doing on the health care line. [[13.30]] As far as police defense is concerned, the police have closed their borders to passenger traffic. Only Hungarians can enter the territory of the country, or those who have been specifically authorised to do so. Freight traffic is still allowed. We stop non-Hungarian but domestic people at our borders. For them, special rules have been laid down. They can cross the designated humanitarian corridor, under supervision, during the specified period, so they can safely pass through Hungary. Even under such difficult circumstances, the moral command of humanity remains a compass, and we want to make our neighbors friends, so they can count on us now. If we fight together now, we can be gun-friends later. I asked for guarantees from the Romanians: as soon as they let those coming from Hungary in, we let those coming to Romania across the Austrian-Hungarian border at the same rate. Our officers have successfully solved this airlock. Dear House, Our police officers are increasing their duties day by day. In parallel with the situation, they need to take over new areas and gradually increase their capacity to maintain public order. Here we stand: all the uniforms available in Hungary today, who are under the age of 65, are in the ranks of officers and deputy officers, 70 275 persons. We have volunteers, such as the vigilantes, but others who can carry out law enforcement tasks if necessary, have a number of 46 573 people. True, they have no weapons, but they have training and have a certain level of discipline and organization, so they can be used. As far as military defense is concerned, they are now taking part in border protection at an elevated level. Now it's up to the defense to prepare to cooperate with the police in case their street patrol has to be ordered. And they are also preparing now in case vital Hungarian companies have to help, because they should not be disturbed. I've assigned operational teams to all these companies. As far as military resources are concerned, we have 23 950 professional soldiers, 9381 reserve soldiers, and 10,649 people who have been discharged within five years, that is, not more than five years, so they still have memories and abilities to use. Together, this means a military force of 43,980. So I report to this House that the total number of law enforcement available in Hungary today is 139 684. If there's a problem, we can manage it. Dear House, The coronal virus epidemic is threatening human life in the first place, but the pandemic also has very serious economic consequences. Now the whole economy is in trouble, but not at the same time. There are sectors of the economy, such as tourism, catering and services, where the problem has already occurred. Under the leadership of Minister Andrea Máger, we have set up a special task force, a task force to consult and propose representatives of the troubled sectors. As jobs are at risk, I asked you to focus on protecting jobs in the first place. We have consulted the most important employers, economic operators in distress, and the first action plan to address the economic consequences of the coronal virus epidemic has been launched. Since the global economy and the Hungarian economy in it will slow down, and many say they will stop, the first action plan will be designed to reduce the slowdown. This will be followed by new ones, because decisions will also be needed to restart the economy. Last Monday I spoke here before you, and since then we have made economic action plans decisions, and we have made them public on Wednesday, but since they have not been spoken here, I will now also present them to this House. The first step of the action plan is the payment moratorium until the end of the year. This decision leaves some HUF 3000 billion to Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. That's how much money they would have paid to the banks by the end of the year. It is a huge amount of money that will help Hungarian families and businesses at the same time. This step is, in our view, both family protection and economic protection. It helps businesses to maintain and maintain the majority of jobs, while helping families in difficult months not to have to live up to their reserves. Everyone's getting some air. We've ordered the banks to suspend all payments. This applies to all loans received from banks and financial institutions: consumer credit, car credit, housing loans. Student loans and baby shower loans so far are also included. You don't have to apply, it's automatic, and you only have to contact your bank if you still want to pay, pay back. I inform the House that the banks will not remain unsupported, and the Hungarian National Bank will provide them with the necessary liquidity for this year. I see the conditions for safe banking are guaranteed. I know it's gonna be hard for the financial institutions, the banks, too, but please admit that you have to help them now, too, and I'm asking them to cooperate with us. Dear House, We helped the fast - moving sectors. In essence, tourism and catering are down, the chances of the entertainment industry are extremely low, and taxi drivers also lose a lot of money. We're giving them serious tax breaks. In the case of tourism, catering, entertainment and sports services, we release the obligations to pay contributions. This means that they do not have to pay contributions to employees. We hope that in this way we may be able to save some of the jobs. This was our first action plan last Wednesday. We made further decisions this morning. These are the following. We've added six steps to what I've told you so far. 1. Following taxi drivers, we will grant a tax exemption from the flat-rate tax liability of kata to 81 480 small business operators until 30 June. Hairdressing, beauty care, painting, glazing, electrical installations, other human health care services, performing arts, water, gas and heating, building table, outpatient care, flooring and wall covering, physical training and other sporting activities, care of elderly disabled people has all been placed in this area. It's a long list, I've only presented a few occupational groups, and the details will be contained in a regulation that will be published tonight. 2. Cata tax debts generated before 1 March will be deferred, which will be sufficient to be paid in the quarter following the end of the emergency. 3. Media service providers in Hungary receive a similar exemption to tourism and catering due to the loss of advertising revenues. 4. In consultation with the Executive Chamber, evictions and seizures will be suspended. 5. Tax enforcement will also be suspended and existing tax debts will be sufficient to be paid after the end of the emergency. 6. We extend the rights of children, children and children in an emergency, and keep mothers in their current status at the time of the emergency. [[13.40]] Dear House, The most important thing in the economy is to protect people's jobs and to find and find new jobs as soon as possible. We did this once after 2010, when we inherited hundreds of thousands of unemployed people, and we're still gonna get back on our feet. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The time ahead will be difficult, demanding efforts from all. It is worth taking these efforts because we can literally save people's lives, and the more people we work with, the more lives we can save. We're about to do something no one can do on their own. We all have responsibilities, we all have to, we should add yours. Instead of political disunity and political debate, it is time to join forces regardless of party affiliation. I would also ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-2	Ladies and gentlemen, As you have seen, the Prime Minister's speech lasted more than 20 minutes, so the factions have 8-8 minutes to respond. I give the floor to Ferenc Gyurcsány.
u2020-03-23-3	Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, the Parliament must take note of the Prime Minister's report. Acknowledged. Then it is his job to help the country to contribute to survival in this undoubtedly extremely difficult, critical time, smartly and collectively, according to everyone's own responsibility, and contribute to a joint recovery. We're in different roles, that's natural. The government has an exceptional asset and responsibility, often not held by others, to deal with such a situation, that is right. In an emergency, the government's ability to limit, resolve and respond correctly to the consequences of an emergency must be supported, even if one thinks in one way or another, there is no debate between us. Parliament has a slightly different role to play. It is Parliament's job to establish new common rules, or it is its job to check and support the leading government that organises the implementation, if necessary, to provide new advice. That's okay with me, too. How do we see things? If I remember correctly, the International Health Organization, WHO, officially announced on January 7, that we were dealing with a new, previously unknown and certainly highly contagious virus that happened more or less ten weeks ago. If, in ten weeks, many feel that we may not be prepared for the moment when this crisis will come to us, then it may not be right for those who criticize those who say that something bad has happened here. I'm not sure, because, of course, we can thank you for the factual accounting, but the situation is, on the basis of previous information, we know that social media is being closely monitored on behalf of one of our ministers, that hundreds and thousands of reports, briefings are, after all, about the fact that health care workers, trade workers, transport workers, a lot of people who are on the front line feel abandoned. I think it's good to have new tools coming in these days. We can also say that we should put the past behind us, and then the time will come when we will see how this could have been done better, but it is not okay if we do not believe and accept the complaints of those who see themselves exposed daily to their health, endangering their lives, and, in the meantime, hear from those who are responsible that everything is okay here, colleagues. A lot of things aren't right, I think a lot of things aren't right. The Prime Minister says that national unity is needed. I basically have no argument with that. On the other hand, national unity does not mean the silence of the nation, nor does it mean the unconditional obedience of the nation to a power that may not know the limits. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] These are two different stories. If we are asked to contribute directly to the resolution of a specific emergency, I think we should say yes. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: This is what we ask!]] If they ask us to allow anything to the regent power on account of the emergency, then we must tell them that we cannot do this because of our oath, honor, and patriotism. [[Interjections, murmuring in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We can't do it, because it's not just a question of what we're fighting against, it's a question of what we're fighting for. What are we fighting for? We are fighting to keep our country a democratic, free rule of law. You can't just take these. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Rubber bullet!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Rubber bullet!]] on the pretext of any other fight. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Rubber bullet!) In fact, I also say that it is not possible to give unlimited authority to anyone, and not simply because those who are asking for it now may not deserve it, although I think it is not right, but because it is not, in principle, right, because at some point, I think it will be over, we very much hope that it will be over, we are working on this, and we cannot use the trouble to keep what we have sworn to preserve. Let me make one more comment. The overwhelming majority of the measures announced by the Prime Minister, I think, in essence, can be agreed. In fact, the question is not that from here on out, but that there is a measure that has not yet been taken and should have been done, or at least it should be done now. The pro-government representatives and members of the government certainly know the international examples more deeply and comprehensively, and there are indeed many examples, but this is the case when there is an economic crisis, not a direct economic crisis, but a crisis outside it. This economy will recover if we do not allow it to be completely ruined during this period, and the Prime Minister's announcements so far have basically said that we will give up the revenue due to the state for a few months and they are free to pay up later. But that won't be the problem, Prime Minister... Mr. Hard to say. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] The hard part is that there will be no income, no revenue [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] The problem will be that there will be no lawsuits. From Denmark to many other countries, therefore, they are now working to replace income and income. You're just giving me an extension to pay the charges, but there won't be any income, income and wages. It's a tough move, it costs terrible money, but I'd like to risk putting up with these few months so that everything can be restored very quickly. Now let's make an effort [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Not later! [[To the President:]] Thank you for your warning. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]] [[13.50]]
u2020-03-23-4	Szabó Timea is next. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-23-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I haven't said a word yet, the heat's already started. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] It will be even more intense if we talk a little bit about what Prime Minister has not spoken about in his so-called report. First of all, I would like to say that the whole world and so Hungary are in trouble, and we are facing a very serious epidemic. I think that we all need to work together to do this. The measures that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has announced are absolutely eligible. The measures and the procedure to give the government a greater license to take measures are also okay, we can support them, we have already supported them. I believe that the opposition has been extremely constructive in recent weeks since the outbreak. We were the first ones to say that we should close the schools, as I understand it, when Prime Minister said that there was no need for it, and that teachers would not get paid. We first suggested in the Dialogue and the other opposition parties that we suspend the repayment of loans and enforcement procedures (intercoms from the ranks of the ruling parties). ), and we have proposed a lot of measures and I will tell you a few more in a moment that will really help to resolve this difficult situation. I think that what Prime Minister has said is eligible, but not sufficient. First of all, I would like to ask you where the 1.5 million masks are, Prime Minister, are you talking about? Actually, I'd like to take a sentence out of what you said that you were hoping that these masks would arrive tomorrow. In addition to your hopes, we hope that more decisive measures will be taken, even the police will be deployed to actually distribute it, because I may soon go to jail for spreading rumors, but for now there are no adequate protective equipment for doctors or nurses in the hospital. [[Noise.]] But, unfortunately, it's true. The fact is that there are very few tax waivers, very little tax remission. If you look at the fact that the United States understands that we are talking about a multiplicity of economies, but a trillion, I don't know how to say this in Hungarian, has set aside a trillion dollars, which is more than ten times the Hungarian GDP... [[Németh Szilárd István: We call it billions or euros.]] We don't call it a billion, Szilárd Németh, but don't get involved, that's another number you're talking about. [[Bence of Turdai applauds. Interview from Fidesz: Clap your hands!]] It is obviously a larger economy, but I think that, in comparison to our strength, there is very little that you have just announced, Prime Minister. [[Noise.]] What we need here is for those who have lost their jobs to get cash, just like the government distributes cash in America. This is why the Dialogue suggested that one, we call it a basic income, distribute it among the people, help people to make sure that those who lose their jobs or get in trouble, the government adds their income to 100 thousand forints a month during the transitional period. We would also like to ask you to do a lot more screening throughout the country, since we can clearly see that this is the only way to stop the virus. That's what we were talking about, or what we can say constructively. But I would like to talk a little bit about this, Prime Minister, which you have not mentioned at all, unfortunately, that is that you are asking for a mandate to do all these things now and you personally, without a time limit, for which there is no precedent throughout Europe. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Of course there is.]] It seems that your primary enemy and your opponent are not the virus now, but we are still opposition parties, you and you, Prime Minister, not the virus alone, but us, too. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The opposition was constructive, we took part in all the negotiations, we went to the seven-party meeting today, of course we did, because we initiated it, which we did. [[Defiance, noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] We've been given the answer... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They don't give in to anything. They won't allow anything on the proposal we've just tabled. You want to adopt this law, known as lex Covid, by giving you the authority to govern without virtually any control over it, and you will also have the freedom to eliminate even the rest of the free press, and, in practice, put the press workers, doctors or opposition representatives in jail if we put things you don't like, that is, the truth. It's called a dictatorship, Prime Minister. [[Noise, uproar in the ranks of the governing parties.]] We have been most cooperative in the Dialogue and in the entire opposition, but we cannot cooperate on this. We will not give you the authority to govern the regulation without a time limit. The fact is that even in a wartime situation, the Hungarian Fundamental Law does not give the authority to govern without limit that is now being asked of us. And once again, no European country has asked for this type of authorisation. I'll tell you who asked and got it. Vladimir Putin, in Russia, took advantage of the fact that there is now an epidemic and quickly pushed it over to become practically his choice for the rest of his life. We don't want any part of this. Unfortunately, we know very well who your role model is in the political world. With regard to the authorisation of unlimited time, you are referring to the possibility that Parliament's convening will be impossible. We have proposed that the online vote be taken. If the European Parliament of 700 has been able to do this, then we can do it too. If the Hungarian Constitutional Court has already introduced this and can do it, then we can do it too. Let's not get dizzy, Prime Minister. It's only a matter of will that you are willing to introduce this or not. And then let us also say a few words about tightening the criminal code, which they also want us to vote for, that, in effect, one to five years of imprisonment, one to whom you believe to be spreading a rumor. So, basically, he's already in prison, because it's not for 0-5 years, it's for 1-5 years, so whoever you think is spreading rumors is going to jail right now. It's a very lousy and transparent reference, and it's an attempt to keep the rumors from stopping the work, and to try to silence the opposition here. The Btk. You're already punishing rumors, there's no need to tighten this up. Or, from here on out, I ask you, are you going to imprison doctors who dare raise their voice and say that there are not enough masks? ! Or the journalists who dare to ask why the nurses are not safe in the hospital, or why they won't do more tests? ! It's nothing but to shut up those who disagree with you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But speaking of rumors, Prime Minister [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] in many, many cases, you spread rumors... [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2020-03-23-6	Next is Peter James. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Mr. Group Leader to you, janitor.]]
u2020-03-23-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, I think that, in the current situation, the most important ability we should retain is the ability to cooperate. I am saying this, Prime Minister, because we have seen signs of this in the last few days and weeks. There have also been a number of oppositional, better-looking proposals that the government has taken, and we thank you very much for that. They accepted the closure of schools [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] committed to introducing a public health border closure [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] committed to the implementation of the credit repayment moratorium. At the same time, seeing the authorisation law that would give you unlimited power, it seems that you do not want to cooperate with anyone but yourself in the future. You did not choose a policy of cooperation, but you seem to see signs of hate propaganda coming again. [[Noise.]] Minister Gulyás is very surprised, but he had the nerve to say that the opposition, or part of it, is rooting for the virus. [[Interventions in the ranks of the governing parties: That's right!]] What were you thinking, Minister? [[Intercoms, riots in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I most definitely reject it on behalf of all of us! [[14.00]] Prime Minister and Prime Minister! We're all worried about our family here, worried about our loved ones, worried about our friends, worried about this country. Everyone here is rooting for Hungary to finally overcome this disease and the economic crisis that awaits this country. So, with all due respect, I ask the government to rise above their grudges, not to hate, but to concentrate on the task, because there is plenty of time and there is little time. It's so little that they've just gotten there, that someday those in intensive care will get special protective masks. How many have been infected so far, Prime Minister, on the front line? 5500 tests have been performed so far. We obviously know that last week Prime Minister told us in this House that we don't have to test so much, it doesn't make any sense. In the meantime, the World Health Organization and WHO have sent a resolution, which is about testing, testing, testing all suspicious cases, because this is the only way to stop the epidemic. [[Intruders from Fidesz: No, it's not true!]] Mr. Prime Minister. I would add that the Hungarian Medical Chamber also sent you a resolution on the need to introduce a curfew. Prime Minister, you can't wait any longer. Tomorrow's victims can be saved today, but this requires curfew. You have responded that this is a political attack. No, Prime Minister, this is not a political attack, is it, Zoltán Kovács said that, because I see that I do not remember, this is not a political attack, this is a proposal from the profession. If the profession suggests anything, then we politicians don't want to do anything else, we don't want to be epidemiological experts anymore, because we're not. What we have to do is that if the profession proposes something, we should implement it and create the necessary economic conditions; for example, create the economic conditions for an employee to stay at home in the current situation, so that the company that employs him does not starve to death or even go bankrupt. That is why Jobbik proposes that we introduce the employment protection fund, so that we can guarantee the livelihood of the workers in distress and guarantee the continued operation of businesses. There are many very good international examples, Prime Minister. In Austria, for example, if an entrepreneur decides to keep the job, the State will take over 90% of the total labour costs of the worker, in the Czech Republic it will take over 80%, in Romania 75%, in Bulgaria 60 percent, and even in Poland half. Prime Minister, the world is running past us! They save workers in every country. And you're telling us that the worker and the employer should sit down with each other, and then agree on how to proceed, and the state, the government, doesn't provide any financial assistance, but that the labour code doesn't have to be respected now, anything can be done to the worker at any time. This isn't going to work, Prime Minister. In each country where the crisis is managed successfully in an economic sense, the employer and the employee are also provided with money. So we can trick around here with regulations, twist and twist the labor code, we won't be able to save money to the workers and businesses. I would add, in recent years, when you guys split public money into billions through public procurement, you didn't save any money. Well, don't save any money when it comes to employees, Prime Minister. This is why a job security fund should be set up, or, for example, a moratorium on the payment of accounts should be introduced. Or to go further, Minister Varga said that this could be considered. It is not necessary to consider, but to introduce, official pricing, because it is not a risk that both the price of the products needed for protection and the price of basic foods is skyrocketed. It is not fair that a 50-forint surgical mask costs 800 forints, a 500-forint hand sanitizer costs 5 thousand forints, and the weight of the chicken breast rises from 1400 to 2800 forints. Yes, Prime Minister, the ceiling above which the prices of these products cannot go. Prime Minister! I could talk about it now, because I still have a little time to figure out what you guys have screwed up over the last ten years. [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] But I don't want to talk about it right now. I don't think this is the time. We all see, we all experience the state of our hospitals, the state of our health care. We all see the humiliating financial conditions under which health workers, law enforcement workers, and, if necessary, save people's lives without protective equipment. Prime Minister, today these people are the heroes, today these people, the worst-wanting Hungarians are the ones carrying this country on their backs. Don't ask for it, because it's true. Prime Minister, today the saviors of this country are not sitting in this room. Today, the saviors of this country are not the ones asking for unlimited authority to rule over this country! No, Prime Minister. Today, the rescuers of this country are in the hospitals, they're at the border, they're in the shops next to the shelves, they're in the bus cab, and I could tell you more. So I ask you with great respect now that we stand up and applaud these people for defending our country, and I hope that one day we will be able to thank you for this sacrifice not only with applause and not only with pats on the back, but also with real wage increases and quality working conditions. Thank you very much. [[Representatives of Jobbik, MSZP, LMP, Dialogue and independent representatives applaud. Interviews from the Fidesz ranks, including: Sit down, Number One! Are you clapping yourself?]]
u2020-03-23-8	I now give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth. You have the floor. [[Noise and interruptions from the pro-government ranks, including, "You've got yourself applause!" Dr. Brenner Koloman: You're not in the pub!]] The theater scene is over, Congressman.
u2020-03-23-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, About today's announcements not only here in Parliament, but also at the interactive press conference after the operational tribe, I recall that the Hungarian Socialist Party had drawn up a defence package two weeks ago, which was already held last week. [[Deficiencies in pro-government benches]] We've introduced you, and we'll take you further this week. I would like to express my pleasure in the fact that many, many proposals that you said last week could be more of a restrictive left-wing conspiracy, have finally been decided today by the government and will also appear in the form of a government decree. So we welcome the suspension of implementation, we welcome the deferral of contributions and taxes. We support many, many measures that you have announced. As I have already said, the most important thing for the Hungarian Socialist Party is to protect and guarantee the safety of the lives, health and livelihoods of Hungarian people. I am pleased that many opposition parties are also reading these proposals, so that together we may be able to move forward. That is why I take the liberty of making a few more proposals, which may not only be about saving companies, but also about protecting Hungarian workers, Hungarian workers. I appeal to the Prime Minister to hear the words of the trade unions, whose position is to give employers the opportunity to establish the working order completely, that is not in the interest of Hungarian workers and workers. I would ask you to discuss this, to convene the Stakeholder Council, not only to consult employers, but also to consult employees' representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that some people are losing their jobs. For them, this current job-seeking allowance and unemployment period is low, and the money they would have is low, and it is not possible to make a living today, so it is necessary to extend this period and to increase the benefits that ensure their livelihoods and the livelihoods of those who lose their jobs. I also have to tell you about pensioners, because you know it, and the economists who are working on this task force, that this 2.8 percent pension increase is not really going to happen today, so it's out of control because of the price increases. So it would be worth considering that the payment of the pension supplement would be due in November to advance, and that they would also be able to make a living in order to pay this pension supplement earlier. So these are the proposals that I wanted to make and, of course, I will then confirm in my speech before the agenda. But I'd like to talk about a little bit more, and I've written it in very big letters here in my notes: trust. Today, you spoke here in Parliament, and after the meeting of the operational tribe, about the situation in the country that we see and feel today, about the need for cooperation, cooperation between people, cooperation between families, cooperation in communities, among teachers, between workers and cooperation between politicians. Prime Minister, I agree with that, but I'm sorry, it's not cooperating that I'm putting something on the table, and I'm saying that that's the case, and if you accept that, then there's cooperation, if you don't accept it, then there's no cooperation. I started a seven-party discussion, and I was very confident, and I have to tell you that our political advisors said that, wow, there's a danger, because the Fidesz is showing his human face now, and he wants to cooperate with the opposition, wow, what's going to happen. [[14.10]] I have to say, I'm not interested in these political advisors, and I'm not interested in them right now. With this seven-partisan agreement, a process has started, which has ceased from one moment to the next. We have formulated proposals that, I think, are rational, understandable, and we have offered that, even here today, in this Parliament, by consensus, we can adopt a law that empowers the government to act, but not to do unlimited action. Today, for the seven-party debate that we initiated, and I do not care that this was now private, and there were things there that were not appropriate to talk about, the opposition has already offered to include the 90-day deadline in the scope of the regulations, and if Parliament cannot be convened for objective reasons, then the government can extend it, but there should be a deadline. I'll tell you why. Because millions of voters do not trust you today. [[Interventions from opposition benches: That's right!]] That's why I've written in huge letters that you're trusting me. Now would be the opportunity for us opposition politicians and opposition parties to restore this confidence for at least this transitional period, because it is also in our interest to alleviate the consequences of the epidemic and try to protect people. That's what we want. Excuse me, Prime Minister, I ask you to personally proceed to the Fidesz and KDNP fractions to include this deadline in this provision. There should be a deadline for the application of government regulations until June 30, and then the Parliament should meet and approve these regulations, either to amend them or not to approve them, it is up to the Parliament. If there is an objective reason, the virus will not ring off, or we will not be able to get together, and I am sorry, Prime Minister, there has been a state of emergency in Romania with the unanimous vote of Parliament and with its electronic vote. They could do it. I think we can do it, too. But if it can't be done, then it should be possible to extend it. In fact, the opposition parties have offered everything today to ensure that the cooperation you have spoken about is genuine cooperation. You, Prime Minister, should do this gesture in order to protect the lives of the Hungarian people. After ten years, Prime Minister, do this gesture, not just for us opposition representatives, but for the opposition electorate, so that they can rest assured that they will not abuse this situation indefinitely. Ask for their trust through us. If we get this, we'll give you that trust, Prime Minister. Please take a break, ask the President to take a break, discuss it, sit down, sort this thing out, and make a unanimous decision in Parliament today, Prime Minister. You should decide whether you want to defeat the virus or us opposition representatives. Make up your mind. Please do this gesture for the sake of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Please, Prime Minister! Please. Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-03-23-10	It's time for Congressman László Keresztes to come. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-03-23-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to begin by thanking those who are working at these moments to protect the safety and health of Hungarian people, those who work in health care, those who work in law enforcement, those who work in the social sector and everyone who is now on the front line. Thank you for this sacrifice. Thank you very much to the Prime Minister for the information, the report that you made before the Parliament. I have listened to every word you say, and I agree, Prime Minister, that we are in a very, very difficult situation, and we really do not know how difficult it is. We do not anticipate, we do not know what the effects will be from a health point of view, and from an economic point of view, what the effects of this shocking pandemic, which until now is likely to have a shocking effect. I'm pretty sure that's something to be honest about. We must tell people that discipline is the most important thing now, that the government must act clearly, that very hard, decisive measures must be taken, and that Hungarian people must be disciplined, that there is no need to be alarmed, that there is no need to panic, that we must follow the guidelines of professionals, and that in a few months this situation can be resolved and that our lives can return to normal. So the situation is indeed very serious, it requires responsibility from the government, from the parties of government, from opposition politicians and from everyone, from Hungarian citizens. There's a complete consensus here, I think. Furthermore, Prime Minister has repeatedly pointed out that in this situation party policy thinking must indeed be put aside. By the way, I would like to add that if we have listened to the speeches so far, this has not been very successful. Not even those who stress the need to put aside party political thinking and party political logic, even they often refer to who submitted what first, who thought about what first. I don't think that's necessary right now. Indeed, we must not just talk about this, we must create it and set an example in every respect. So we haven't been able to do that yet. Bertalan Tóth has been talking about something very important lately. If we look at the decision, the very important bill before us, we can see from the debate that has taken place in recent days how serious the situation is. We can say that over the last ten years, Hungarian politics has sunk into a kind of swamp, and its actors, journalists, politicians, opinion leaders do not want to or very difficult to come out of this swamp, although this would be absolutely necessary. The main topic of the debate in recent days is this particular delegation law. I think everyone agrees, as the Prime Minister said, that the procedures in peacetime are not appropriate now, we need a clear legal order, a mandate for the government to actually take action at the right speed. I think there is consensus in this. The effectiveness and sufficientness of the measures that have been announced so far can be debated, and we will, but I think that we can also agree in this direction, that basically decisions have been made in the right direction and are important. I think it's important to say this, too. At the same time, there are factors here that are worrying a lot of people in this country. Indeed, this delegation law is about giving the government the opportunity to govern virtually by regulation in relation to defence, and this operation, this situation, in fact, takes place without a time limit, until the opposite decision of Parliament. Now, that's what a lot of people can't identify with, and that's why there's been a debate that I think was unworthy of the gravity of the situation. I was shocked to hear, by the way, from one side, the manifestations that the dictatorship is being built here, while from the other, the manifestations that opposition politicians are on the side of the virus, Minister. I think it is very irresponsible to make such radical manifestations. This poisons Hungarian public life and makes it impossible to cooperate beyond party policy, which is now, if ever, a huge need. I think that one of the most important issues for today and for tomorrow's parliamentary day will be that it succeeds in overcoming it, succeeds in setting an example now, and succeeds in taking steps that, indeed, as Mr Tóth said, we can take a very important and hard action by consensus. With this, we can all confirm important decisions with a huge consensus, but it is equally important that we send a message to Hungarian society that both pro-government and opposition politicians feel the weight of the situation, and that after ten years in Hungarian politics it is possible to sit at a table and agree on certain minimum issues. That would be a huge and extremely important message, I think. In this situation, with reference to the fact that there have been several seven-party, seven-group negotiations, I think that the government side has a very serious responsibility right now. There's a majority at the government side, Mr. Group Leader, there's an opportunity to make a gesture now. Last Wednesday, perhaps not many people know this, there was a discussion specifically on this bill, where I stood up after several hours of discussions with a feeling that there was some consensus. Yes, we need this very hard mandate, we need the emergency legal order, we need the emergency extension, we need these quick decision options, but we also need guarantees. For example, it is a guarantee that the Constitutional Court can assess the situation in this special situation, intervene quickly and need a time limit. This time limit is not necessarily because opposition groups or opposition representatives are just as sensitive, but because unfortunately there is a lack of confidence in Hungarian society, there must be a guarantee that there is a time limit. This can be done in such a way that Parliament has to prolong this situation in 90 days or even in any period. I think all of you here, thinking responsibly, have an attitude to do that. We also see that the most important thing now is that the measures can be taken. That's why I'm asking you for a gesture. It is now possible to establish this consensus. [[14.20]] To do so, however, you must now take a step, and let these, only these key guarantees, be incorporated into this proposal, and then, I think that there will be very broad cooperation here, and then we have all, pro-government and opposition representatives, also proved that we are not only talking about the importance of putting party policy aside now, but we are also acting for it, and this can be done in Hungary. And it is very important now for this particular delegation law to be implemented, but this kind of cooperation is also very important in practical life, also in different decisions and proposals. Unfortunately, we also have a lot to learn from this, the government side and the opposition. I do not think, by the way, that if there is a good proposal for the opposition, it must be flaunted. Obviously, party-political reflexes work. I think that our most important task is that, if we have good proposals, those who can do this must be sent to those who can. Or even if we receive a signal that there may be an emergency, there is a problem to be addressed, and we forward a proposal to it, it should have a conception. Unfortunately, in recent days, there has been a case concerning the MÁV that I will talk about later today, where I asked a State Secretary who is at the Ministry that oversees the railway company, which, in my opinion and according to the union, creates an emergency. I didn't go to the press, I didn't do a Facebook post, I didn't hold a press conference; I sent the request to the Secretary of State, and nothing happened in days. I believe that this should teach me, and I ask the government, the Prime Minister, the members of the government and the operational tribe to pay attention to these signals, because these are very, very important measures that can be measured in human life. So I think, by closing my comments, that I am very confident that, on your part, there is a serious intention that you can really develop a common thinking that is a disincentive of party policy logic, but to do so, you must make a very important gesture, and I think that if you do so now, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the opposition will respond positively to this, and it will be a very important and positive message for all of us, for the Hungarian society. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-12	Now it's time for Péter Harrach. Here you go.
u2020-03-23-13	Mr President, Prime Minister! Dear fellow Members, The Prime Minister's briefing was on the situation and on defence; the situation that we all know in part is the number of infected, sick, very sick, but it was also comforting to hear the data on the number of people working in health care and the number of law enforcement officers. There are, of course, several levels of defense, and now let me highlight the individual level. There are many people in this room, too, in protective masks, obviously this will prevent the infection in part, but only in part, let us not be in the illusion that we are fully protected by it, but I think it is also a tool. Some people can stay at home, and it was nice to hear about the measure that doctors over the age of 65 could stay at home, since at the moment it seems that there are enough health workers younger than them. Of course, we, who are here, also do our duty, those who have left this age; this is partly because it is our job, partly because at this age, one sees the world differently than young people, and thinks that the remaining little time must be filled with something that has a duty. Of course, public health measures are also important and the government's economic measures are important. I would like to highlight among these economic measures the moratorium on payment, which is very important, the eviction and enforcement suspension has always been important for us to deal with the situation of families on the floor, and, of course, in the interests of families, the possibility of survival of children and children was also an important measure. And, if I may, some thoughts on the comments. I believe that the voice of the opposition was somewhat milder now than it was in peacetime. This indicates, in part, the intention of cooperation here and there, as we have seen during the discussions that the government has taken in many opposition initiatives, but unfortunately, I also have to see it, and let me say that there are traditional opposition efforts that they would like to pursue under the pretext of the measures taken in connection with the epidemic. That's understandable, but don't take it the wrong way if the majority of the government doesn't take them into account. And if there are opposition speeches and cooperation intentions, then let me respond to the concept of trust. It is indeed an important aspect, as it is a condition for cooperation. But trust, there is a way to build trust, and this is the way of previous achievement. And if we look here at what this government has done from the first Orbán government's activity since 98, then this trust is justified by the actions. I have seen what measures have been taken in the Upper Tisza region not only to protect the great floods of the millennium, but also to rebuild in Bereg, for example, what it meant for the country and the people living there. If anything, this should raise confidence in the government, which now, with its measures, has proved that this government is the only one capable of dealing with this serious situation. And when we see this, we need to see what his predecessors have done, and how the same aspect, that is, the verification power of the actions, has appeared. Today's government had to repair the damage they had done. Around 2000, between 98 and 2002, it was this government, more precisely, an predecessor of this government with different compositions, who dealt with this messed-up situation by bringing the country out of the financial crisis by putting the economy on a developing path, and today they have created a world that we need to protect. And who can protect him? Those who created this, and those who proved that they were able to fix the situation that others could not handle. I mean, if we look at what the government has done in crisis management in 97-98 it could have dealt with the crisis, then we see that, in addition to the debt of the country and its citizens, they were unable to keep the economy on track. This is a matter of trust, which can clearly be given through action. I believe that today's vote is about how long, in this emergency, until the end of the epidemic or an uncertain date of the epidemic, the government's powers will be extended. I believe that if trust works, we will accept the proposal that the government side has placed on Parliament's table today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-14	Mr. Máté Kocsis is next.
u2020-03-23-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, First of all, allow me, on behalf of the Fidesz Parliamentary Group, to thank all those involved in the ever-increasing defensive tasks, not only health workers, police officers, law enforcement workers, but also soldiers now, and to thank all those who volunteer to help fight the Crown Virus. This is also a huge need, because we all know that the hard part is still ahead of us. [[Applause for the ruling parties, sporadic applause for the opposition parties.]] [[14.30]] My job and my intention in the past week and a half and today is to ask you not to make the difference between us now. It is as the leader of the group said, we have met several times in the last week, we have attended many seven-party negotiations, with the exception of a moment or two, these were good mood and constructive meetings, and we have indeed been led in the direction that we can act together against the Crown Virus. At the first meeting, the concerns that have been expressed today have not yet been addressed. And something happened between the first meeting and the last meeting that I personally don't understand. I don't even want to figure it out, I don't want to know what happened, but the same textual draft a week ago, it was all about other criticisms than what they're dealing with today. It is not appropriate to say too much about the seven-party negotiations, after they were closed doors, and it is not appropriate for me to hold such discussions, but I am obliged to respond that one or another of these participants says that this process has stopped. We last met today at 12 o'clock. You ask for trust, and in some cases you do not tell the truth, nor do you give confidence. The fact that Mr. Group Leader Gyurcsány doesn't like us is nothing new. As a relief, it's at least mutual. [[There's a rare blur in the ranks of Fidesz.]] But now is not the time for what he said. We didn't ask him to join us. We have asked him, as the decisive leader of the opposition, as a strong man of opposition parties, not to provoke you now, only to give us facts, as a strong opposition leader, a chance for Parliament to give the government the necessary authority. This chance may also be given by a single vote or absence from voting. We have to negotiate the Crown Virus Act today. This requires four fifths of Parliament. We have two-thirds. As you have gotten public opinion used to in recent years, we can now say that we can do anything in Parliament. But we cannot do it now, and that is not our intention, because it is as we say: we would like to make a decision with you. If you're going to make this a question of trust, if defence is a question of political trust between parties, then that's how we're going to stay. We won't have any way to break out of this for the next hour. We have an hour until vote four-five. They can help us even if they leave the room, if they let us decide. We'll take responsibility. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] We have the big parliamentary group, we have the two-thirds majority, and the government has the support of the parties. [[Interventions from opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] We'll take all the responsibility. One thing we ask of you is that you do not prevent us. Unlimited power. You don't like telling the truth. I'm going to say what I'm saying now so they don't say things like that if they say it in public, at least don't do it here. There is no limitless power. Let's not fool people. Proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice 2. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act makes it quite clear that, to the extent necessary and proportionate to the objective pursued, the government may use its powers to prevent, treat, eradicate and prevent the harmful effects of the human epidemic. It's not unlimited. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Time limit!]] Don't fool people. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] There's no limit. They say we didn't make concessions. I take it personally; in addition to not being true, I take it personally. Congresswoman Timea Szabó, my fellow group leader, asked for the necessity-proportionality to be included in the proposal. The Attorney General led him through the text the next day. [[Interjection.]] It was also proposed that we renegotiate the issue of spreading rumors. I told him at noon today that we were even open to this. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Time limit?]] The trial of rumors does not depend on human lives. On which people's lives depend, the government's continued capacity to act. And I have a feeling and I'm still trying to crack this in you, that you've made an accusation about the government's overpowering, and that's what you're trying to beat. There's no such thing. The virus must be defeated, and we must ensure the continued capacity of the government. You don't have to vote for the law today, you have to give the four-fifths authority. If you do not give this today, there will be a few days at a very critical time, in relation to the spread of the virus, at a very critical time when the government should continue to work and Parliament will not be behind this work. And do you know what we're voting on today? How many of you have read that law? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Everybody!]] We are voting on whether the measures taken so far by the Government are being confirmed, which the Prime Minister spoke about in his speech before the agenda. Which doesn't make your life any easier, but people's. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] His victims, his economic victims. And look at the time limit. It's not a public request, it shouldn't be. [[To Agnes Kunhalmi:]] And not to yell, Congresswoman. Who in this room can tell us who can sign the paper that in 90 days or 60 days this Parliament will be able to meet? [[A big round of applause on the pro-government side.]] Who's that man? And then what? Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The end of the epidemic is not dependent on the will of the government, parliament or opposition. The end of the epidemic will be an objective fact. The only way to do that is by the government. The government won't decide how long the plague will last. It is not for the government to decide when the pandemic will end, nor for the whole spread of the virus that the whole world is struggling with. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr. President, one sentence! [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It's not the government, it's the Fidesz!]] One thing I ask of you today is to help the four fifth majority in order to at least take responsibility for the decision. Help us with this. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-16	I am now returning the floor to the Prime Minister in order to give the rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-03-23-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm trying to be as exhausting as possible. First of all, I thank everyone who has told me what the Prime Minister's job is. Thank you very much, I'm trying. The time limit and the whole debate that's going on here, and what, if I understand correctly, will continue, I think I understand your point of view. It's different from the government's point of view. The government wants to give back the right not to the government, but to decide when the emergency is over. We don't want to marry you, I want to give it back. And the reason I want to give it back to you is because you're gonna have to make decisions that I don't want to argue about whether we have a right or not. At any moment, Parliament must be in a position to take back the right of decision from the government. I'm not asking for a week or two days or 90 days. You've got it all wrong. I don't need a fixed deadline. You can take it back tomorrow morning if you see it. There will be decisions when you think of it. So what I want to say to you is that the parliamentary funding behind the decisions must be continuous, every day, because you will have the right every day to say that so far and no longer. Every day. Consequently, after the estimates are different, of course, but I would like to say that you, us, all together in 90 days, will be in much worse shape than we are now. That's what I want you to be prepared for. You've got it all wrong. We are not talking about meeting in 90 days and discussing calmly the end of the crisis. If the defense is successful, the epidemic will spread because the purpose of the defense is to slow down its spread. Consequently, we do not want everyone suddenly to get sick, to go through this, because if that happens, there will be so many patients on the health care system that we cannot care for people. [[14.40]] Our job, which we do, and I personally, is to plan the route, the route of infection that we can't stop, there's no vaccine, and I can't even get rid of it, but we have to plan the route to keep it going, so that the health care system doesn't stop operating for a second. It's called Italy, what happened there must be avoided. So this curve will be longer: the more we can slow down the spread, the longer we'll be in, and it won't be three months, my dear friends! So I'd like to ask everyone not to give me and not to give the government permission for three months. This work has been entrusted to us, we are in an emergency, adopt this law, and then, if the law is passed, you can take back any day from the government the rights that we otherwise exercise in order to deal with the crisis. We want to give it back to you, not take it. Another thing, I understand, is that in your logic, this does not mean much because these decisions can be made by a simple majority, and, as you have heard, there is a simple majority on this side, even a two-thirds majority, and Parliament's decision is not a guarantee for you. But we can't help that, because the people in the elections have chosen these rates, and therefore this majority is the parliamentary guarantee over the government, and not that minority, ladies and gentlemen. So when it comes to deciding whether it's your concept or not, in my opinion, whether you take it back or not and when, this side will decide, because they have the majority and the responsibility, and they will have to take responsibility. We welcome our cooperation, thank you for your support, we welcome the advice, the encouragement, we welcome everything, but we will resolve this crisis without you. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] If you don't vote for it now, we're still going to solve it, and we're going to keep the discounts up. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] In order to detect the spread of the virus in time or not, let us really discuss this after the whole situation, I just suggest that they choose something decent; that is possible, because every country in Europe suffers from this problem. They will be able to look at it, and they will see that, if not first, it is not impossible, but we have declared an emergency among the first, and we have taken all the important steps in the first place across Europe; but indeed, this is a later debate. I'm not throwing the ball back to the previous prime minister, but thank you for giving me economic crisis management advice. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] At the same time, I consider the sentence that has been said here to be important, and what sounds to me is that you are now fighting in the ranks of the opposition to keep Hungary a functioning democratic rule of law. I would like to draw your attention to the word "stay." So far I've heard here, I don't know how many years it's been, that it's not working, that it's not democratic, that it's not a rule of law. Now, I see you're fighting to keep a functioning democratic rule of law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Is the volume of measures sufficient or not? So far, it will do; it will not be enough, we will need more. But to minimize the choices we've made so far and to minimize the change that people have in their lives, I don't think it's right. All the interest and capital repayments that businesses and people owe in one year to the banking sector, so what they pay in one year is HUF 3600 billion. After the introduction of these measures in mid-March, I mean that they do not have to be paid, two and a half months of the year has passed, it has to be deducted, but the rest of this 3600 billion HUF stays with the people this year. This is somewhere around 6-7 percent of GDP. Stop saying that this is not enough, or if it is, then understand what is GDP, what is the proportion of GDP, and what are the international proportions! But to say that there is little if it is not malice, and I assume that this is not the case, then it is indiscretion, but I agree that there will be more and more decisions to be made, and we will make them. It's been said several times that we've closed the schools. Here's the thing: we didn't close the schools. Don't spread false news. We didn't close the buildings, neither the schools, nor the buildings. Education has shifted to another order, a digital order, the buildings are open, the director has to go in every day, and so many teachers have to serve locally in schools, so that, according to yesterday's instructions, they can maintain and educate children in groups of five. So the thing is, today, a parent who can't keep their child at home can take it to school, because contrary to what you say, it is open, and there it is guaranteed that the child will be kept and educated in healthy conditions, no greater than in groups of five. There's no break, there's no stopping school, there's no losing the kids' year, there's a chance of graduation. Let us not instill the idea that the academic results of the months ahead are worthless, no! There's study, there's teachers, and if you can't do it at home, you can take the kid to school. Yesterday we ordered that school preservation should not take place in groups of more than five people. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] When to distribute, how much and to whom of the protective equipment? It is a very important issue, and several people have raised it here, and we deal with this issue at every meeting of the operational tribe. For your information, when, to whom, and how much protective equipment can be given, three factors determine their group, three things need to be observed. One: how much is in stock, how many devices we have at all. The second is how the number of patients is expected; not how many there are today, but how much will be tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and three months from now, and the more successful our defense will be for the longer. The third is the number of health workers. Depending on this, we can use everyday decisions to tell which day, which health worker, what protective equipment he gets: masks, suits, masks like that, sort of when he gets what. It's a continuous military operation, stock management. [[Bence Tordai: Missing Management! Car Cake Olivio: Lack of stock!]] That's what we have to consider, which day, to whom, how much we give. I would like to point out that we have a sequence of doctors and nurses working with intensive beds, and then those who are brought in with a suspicion of coronal virus, and then the health stuff that doesn't work with a coronal virus intensive bed, then those who work in hospitals, then the police, then the soldiers, then the administration; like a military order, you have to manage it according to one logic. You can create a mood against this, you can say it's not good and you need more, everything can be possible, but once again I say that whoever decides has three circumstances to consider: how to run up and down the disease, how many tools there are and how many health workers we have to take care of. To the best of our knowledge, we make the necessary decisions every morning on the basis of this combination. I am not joking, because the situation is not suitable, but I am telling my fellow Member, Szabó Timea, that his sentence is that we should not be dizzy. , put it in your own name only. I have no such intention of making the congresswoman dizzy, and I speak frankly and honestly. [[Bence of Tordai: Shame on you, Viktor!]] The answer to the question of how many health workers are infected, which is also an important element of stock management, is that 4 percent of healthcare workers in China and 10 percent in Italy have been infected. So not only do we have stock management, but we also have staff management: every day the operational tribe calculates exactly how many doctors we need for the expected patient, who we need to send to the front line, who we need to bring back, how to rest them, how to replace them, where to live, where to direct them, if we are to conduct them to the other side of the country, I am not talking about today, but what is ahead, where to live, how to eat, and so on. Once again, things are going according to a military mobilization plan. I'm asking you not to make me feel bad about this. Believe me, these are logically structured, logically structured protective measures based on appropriate methods. The opinion is that we need to test it on WHO's recommendation, yes, but we're testing it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] That's what they want us to do here. Don't demand it. We follow the recommended WHO testing protocol. Should there be a curfew? Someone here is demanding this, maybe the Jobbik demanded that there be a curfew. [[Miklós Soltész: Stay at home!]] [[14.50]] That's an opportunity we're considering. But first of all, we consider which of the different types of curfew might make sense. They try different things in different countries. Don't sit up for the press. When they hear there's a curfew somewhere, it doesn't mean people can't go out on the street. Read it through, everywhere you write down who's when, how, how it's gonna go. A total curfew, beyond the fact that it's undesirable, is probably not even possible. I think it's a sensible debate whether or not to have, and if so, what kind to have. That's something to think about. It is also possible to think about who we need to separate from, isolate; that we want to isolate everyone from everyone, or that we want to isolate vulnerable groups. Because there are many of us who will be infected by the virus, otherwise we probably won't notice, or if we do, we'll be sick, and we'll be cured in 14 days. But some people don't walk in these shoes, they get infected, they become the patients in need of intensive care, they need to be taken to the hospital, and there's a question as to whether they'll survive like seven of them didn't. We know which two vulnerable groups are, for now, because all of our knowledge is limited, scientific certainty is understandablely beyond anything. We know that particularly vulnerable groups are patients who are not yet old, but are sick, suffering from some immunodeficiency. They represent a vulnerable group, regardless of their age. And there's a vulnerable group of people over 65 and those over 80 in particular. Then when we think about, as we do, who should be isolated from whom, because the curfew is about separating people from each other, we will have to think about whether we want to isolate everyone or just isolate the groups in distress. And if so, for how long? All day? Or not for a while? These aren't as simple questions as getting up and telling people to introduce a curfew. I would like to ask for more seriousness in this matter. We think about it, we consider it, we follow the experience, and we also look at what worked in which country. In particular, we are following Austrian experience; I already told you why it is. As regards the economic proposals: I do not want to open up an economic philosophical debate now, but most of the proposals put forward here call for austerity. And another part of it demands something that would lead to the loss of tens and hundreds of thousands of additional jobs if we did, but I will. We are specifically preparing job protection plans, we will protect jobs; we want to take growth-friendly measures; and we do not want to give people aid, but we want them to live from work instead of aid. It may be three months or two, or a month, who knows how much, and then you have to live on unemployment benefits, who lost their job, but my goal is to get unemployment benefits back as soon as possible. Therefore, we will spend all the money so that employers can give people jobs because it helps them, not aid. So for my part, I cannot accept the proposals that point to austerity. The official price. We have also addressed this issue, in particular the possibility of an official price for protective equipment. Here's the thing: what we make protective equipment is all for health workers and law enforcement workers. So we can't put on the market any masks or any other protective equipment from public manufacturing. Naturally, the official price applies to products that can be purchased on the market, say in the pharmacy. The problem is that since such production is not in the country, because if there were any private production, it would be in public hands by now, let it be said between us, but it is not, so practically the products on which you want to introduce the official price come from abroad. And we have no means to influence the actual purchase price. Today, we have calculated this at the meeting of the operational tribe, and we are afraid that if we introduce an official price on, say, masks, we will create a situation where no apothecary will bring it in at the price that we determine, and will not sell it, and your excellent proposal on the official price will result in no mask being available in the shops. Is that what you want? Think about it. Because in such a case, when the foreign price goes above the domestic price, there are two options: either you become a blacksmith from the apothecary, because you give it at a different price than the rules require, or you simply don't sell. So these proposals sound nice, I sympathize with the introduction of an official price where it is necessary and makes sense, but do not demand an official price that hinders defence and deprives people of the possibility of protection. And Jobbik's suggestion is this, it's bad for people, and I can't support that right now. I can support any proposal that I have to offer to the representative of the Socialist Party, except for those which, in my best opinion, weaken defence, I do not support any proposal that I believe to weaken the country's ability to defend. Someone used the word "admissory law." Don't do that. That's not what's being put in here. It's a bad word; I have no intention of submitting a law of authority. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: No accident! Szabó Timea: It's also an anniversary!]] That's not what this is about. With regard to the Romanian solutions, because someone suggested it, I would like to warn you there to be careful. There is no need to introduce an emergency government regulation in Romania [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] The government also has the power to amend and create laws on matters which are legislative and even fundamental laws. Sorry, peacetime, careful with the Romanian ideas. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And then they're in force for six months, and after six months, Parliament gets a chance to pull them out. Is that what you want? [[Miklós Soltész: Almost!]] Don't quote such suggestions. Not a good proposal, my dear Jobbik, to withdraw this in the interests of democracy. [[Delight and applause from the pro-government benches. Szabó Timea: Six months is fine! Gergely Gulyás: I'll tell you that in a seminar!]] I would like to tell you about the wage increases that they are obviously all justified, all wage increases, because Hungary has made progress in many areas in recent years, but we are not yet where we want to be. But still, consider: are we sure that now is the time to start a wage fight in Hungary? Isn't this the time to devote all our resources to protecting jobs and creating new jobs? I am convinced that whoever opens a wage fight here is mistaken, misinterprets time and place, and therefore misinterprets the possibility. Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, opposition representatives spoke of their fears. Members of Parliament, those are the leaders of the country, I may have had a chance to talk about it the other day. Obviously, there is a difference between the responsibility of the opposition and the responsibility of the ruling party, and obviously there is a difference between the responsibilities of the Members of Parliament in the government and the responsibilities of those who are not invited there. I have no business talking about the opposition's fears, but I do have expectations of the pro-government. The situation is still difficult, and it's going to be even harder, and I want no matter what the opposition fears, it's up to them, I need 133 brave men, 133 of the bravest men in the country, and they're here on the pro-government side. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] And so I ask you not to be shaken, not to back down, not to hesitate, whatever you say, to go through the decisions that you believe will help this country's capabilities. Be brave. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in times of emergency, I have told you, if it is good, bad news, I will always inform you, even if I bring good news, even if it is bad news. I asked for a common defense, and this is when we owe each other honesty: difficult times are coming. I'm asking you all to pull yourself together and rise to the challenge. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-18	Thank you for your speeches. Dear House, We will now move on to the pre-scheduled comments. And I'd like your attention... [[Noise.]] Everyone stay where they are, except for the members of the government, who are obviously more important now, they have other things to do. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the information provided previously by the Director-General, if you wish to leave the meeting room temporarily, those sitting on the edge of the rear sectors should do so first, and then those in the middle and then in the front rows will leave the room at the edge of the sectors, keeping a good distance between them. I would ask my fellow Members to abstain in the Chamber during the day, in addition to voting, only the next speaker and the following two speakers. Discussions can be followed for all through the internal television broadcasting system. The President, who shall chair the meeting, shall present the names of the following three representatives at the end of each statement of opposition. So I'm going to give you a few minutes of technical break in order to leave the meeting room in this order. [[It's a short break. A significant part of the Members leave the Chamber.]] [[15.00]]
u2020-03-23-19	Timea Szabó, leader of the Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech; then Lóránt László Keresztes, followed by Ferenc Gyurcsány. Here you go.
u2020-03-23-20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister concluded by saying that he needed 133 brave men. I would like to ask you that you need 133 brave men or 133 irresponsible people. I would like to ask you now what was the Member of the Chamber of B. Nagy László Szeged, who, on 15 March, was wreathing with the doctor Rovo, who is known to have a coronal virus. Compared to that, he's sitting back in the room because it's more important for you than anything else to have two thirds. You're endangering our health, our families' health, ordering those who should be in quarantine a long time ago! He was sitting in the back, and now he's out there doing exactly the opposite of what they're saying! The most important thing for you is not to have security, but to have two thirds now! I'm asking you to be more responsible than that. The second thing is that, with every expression and sentence of the Prime Minister, he suggested that we were not needed here. If so, why are you so afraid of this vote now? ! I'll tell you! Because for the first time, there has been a time when four fifths of Parliament needs a vote. So they'd like to say that we're not needed right now, but they know exactly that this law won't go through. Once again, we ask you to include this 90-day deadline in this law, because what Máté Kocsis says is not true, who knows what will be here in three months' time, so that Parliament can be convened. It is possible to convene Parliament if we order the digital sitting, the online vote. If you expect teachers and parents to switch to digital education in two days, then you will do so here in the House to switch to digital meetings in two days. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, The problem here is that there's so much mistrust in this country thanks to you, you've abused your power in the last ten years at such a level that people don't even believe what you're asking. Who would have thought ten years ago that you would take the private pension funds and steal them? ! They could have said 11 years ago that the necessity-proportionality, and the rest of them just stole that 3000 billion forint from the Hungarian people! How can anyone believe you now? Yes, we ask for guarantees. We need a simple majority, so it looks like they're gonna vote for anything, and they said they're gonna vote for anything. Then don't be afraid to take their own responsibility. And what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said is not true, that you alone have the responsibility! Let me ask myself this on behalf of all the opposition representatives. We've been elected to this Parliament as much as you have. We are equally authorized by our constituents to represent their interests. We also have a responsibility to represent their interests, their will. We're not gonna sneak back in, we're gonna go out, we're gonna give you guys with your eyes down, unlimited power, and then, who knows what they're gonna use you for in the end! Máté Kocsis said that he even made concessions at this seven-party meeting that even the mouth lock law is now meant by the Btk. tightening of the mouth lock, and they are willing to withdraw this Btk. tightening. Only the next minute, if Máté Kocsis here has said what was said in the closed session, let me add that he has actually said that, I confirm, Gergely Gulyás added in the next minute that if we do not vote for this law, if there is no agreement on the deadline, then we cannot talk about Btk. tightening. So, unfortunately, I have to deny the openness that Matthew Kocsis was trying to tell us in this case. I ask both you and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán not to talk about austerity here for half a minute. The Prime Minister will be the first to be closed for news coverage because he says that there will be no unemployment here, while Gergely Gulyás said the next day that hundreds of thousands of unemployed people will be counted! Are we really not going to help them? They don't need us to raise unemployment contributions from three months to nine months. payment? Yes! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And increased contributions must be paid [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] Because hundreds of thousands of people will be in trouble. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-03-23-21	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-03-23-22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, on the basis of your speech, I must say that the honourable Member does not take into account that we are in an extraordinary situation, and in this exceptional situation, the usual party policy cuts do not work, but I can say at least that they do not help to combat the epidemic. As far as the issue of cooperation is concerned, I have noticed an interesting contradiction. You say at the same time that the government is not cooperating and that the government is implementing your proposals. At some point, you have to decide which one to say because the two are in a huge contradiction. [[Szabó Timea: That's different! That's different.]] What I would like to say to you is that the government is working together on every step of the way to protect the country, save lives and protect jobs. Let us not respond to his personalities, because we are not in that position. Instead, I'd like to talk about where we are. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Since we moved to the stage of group illness last week, now we have to do everything in our power to avoid and push out the stage of mass diseases. The stage of group diseases means that the virus can now be anywhere, anywhere in Hungary: in the capital city, in any city and in any settlement. This virus does not know borders, county boundaries or age. Anyone could be a carrier of the virus. We can still say that since there is no vaccine against the virus, the best we can do is to slow down its spread so that we can relieve the health care system. That is why we ask, including with the help of an information film, that everyone avoid companies, to keep at least one meter away from others, but mostly two; that is why we are now at a different location than where we used to be, and to postpone anything other than narrow family meetings, especially for the protection of our elderly countrymen. In order to control the epidemic, rapid and extraordinary measures are needed. This will continue to be necessary, because there is now a serious cost of delay, or worse, a lack of action. The government therefore proposes to extend the emergency, not for other reasons, but for this reason. I would like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen of this House to the fact that an emergency or emergency situation has already been declared in 14 EU countries, including Italy, France and Spain. And where parliamentary reinforcement was needed, the opposition typically supported these measures. So now it's up to you, and you want to be an international example in a negative sense that the opposition does not support the fight against the virus. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not true!]] [[15.10]] The Prime Minister announced a number of measures that opposition parties can support in principle. It is worth repeating them in part: an additional 81 thousand small businesses are exempt from paying the cadastral tax; the government gives a delay in paying the cadastral tax debts before March; a significant tax exemption is granted to media service providers; the government suspends evictions; the government suspends tax collections; the dues and rights of children are extended until the end of the emergency. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are facing difficult months and weeks. The epidemic and the fight against the epidemic will affect everyone's lives, so we need to take steps that are out of the ordinary, often with resignations, at least in relation to our usual lives. But if we ask ourselves why we are doing this, the answer is clear: to save lives, and if we have ensured that, then to protect jobs. I would also like to thank all those who stand up in the difficult days, those who, despite all the inconvenience, follow the rules, because they know that much depends on it. Thanks to doctors and nurses, police and soldiers, teachers who develop digital instructional systems, workers from transport companies, pharmacists and shop salesmen. We have a task that cannot be solved alone or in small groups, it is now a time for cooperation, and in this cooperation we have a different order of magnitude, but everyone has a responsibility. If you care about protecting people's lives and jobs, you can count on the government. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-23	Now it's time for László Keresztes, leader of the LMP. Here you go.
u2020-03-23-24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In many respects, the debate before the agenda continues, the debate started before the Prime Minister's comments, and I was shocked to see here in the last few minutes that Mr Csaba Demeter's specific speech followed almost entirely the political logic of the party and, in particular, the opposition's speech. I find that shocking. The opposition representatives, the majority of the pro-government representatives, too, I hope that we are all aware of the gravity of the situation and that we should not only talk about putting aside party policy thinking, Mr Secretary of State, but also of achieving it. You've been a very bad example of that with your speech just now. I would like to refer it back, not to continue my speech before the agenda as I reacted to the Prime Minister, but I would like to respond to some very important thoughts that we have heard from the Prime Minister. He referred to the need to pay attention to what is happening in other countries and to try to apply procedures that have been more successful, and to learn from any mistakes. I agree perfectly with that. In Italy, a 57 - year - old doctor said in the press that Italy was not prepared for the outbreak, and that there were not enough protective equipment, and a lot of health workers were ill in Italy, and unfortunately, it was a tragic case that this 57 - year - old doctor had been infected during the epidemic, and that he had not had adequate protective equipment and had died since. I think this is a very, very serious tragedy. Another example, a very detailed description in Italy, is why it is important, based on their own experience, to draw attention to why it is important, why prevention is more important than anything else. So when the disease reaches the point where intensive therapy is needed, it is very, very difficult to fight, and therefore everything must be done to ensure that prevention can take place. Prime Minister said that the government's aim now is to slow down the spread of the epidemic, to prolong the epidemic, obviously in order to make use of capacity, so that there are enough hospital beds, sufficient staff and equipment for intensive therapy. At the same time, again, we need to talk about the importance of prevention and the importance of protective equipment. How can we slow down the spread of the epidemic if there is not enough protective equipment available for those on the front line? We heard today that a shipment of planes from China has arrived with 82,000 masks for medical personnel. This is obviously part of what is necessary, but it is very, very important to talk about the fact that many others are still working on the front line, who, as we have heard, are standing back in the order of priority, so they may be able to get a protective mask later. I do not want to list the many examples that have been published in the press in recent years, and the various leading doctors and hospital leaders have indicated that everyone who can help us in this area should work to ensure that adequate protective equipment is available to health workers. But likewise indicated the problem of many apothecary. I've seen it myself, haven't you, last Friday, Prime Minister, in a radio interview, that it's not true that we don't have enough protective equipment and that there are millions of masks. I was on my way to a pharmacy, and before the pharmacy, it was written that customers shouldn't ask for a protective mask or ask for hand sanitizer, because there was a shortage of supplies. After I went in, the apothecary told me that they barely have any, so they don't know what they're gonna be working with. I think that there is full agreement on the importance of pharmacies now and the importance of those working there, and it is quite clear that their health must also be protected. But in the same way, with regard to food security and security of supply for all kinds of products, it is of particular importance that sellers, who have direct contact with a large number of customers, receive adequate protective equipment, protective equipment, and unfortunately there are very serious problems in this regard. I am not reassured by this situation, but I am not reassured by the Prime Minister by the fact that he said that there is a sufficient amount of protective equipment, because unfortunately, we are receiving those distress signals from the workers in practice, those on the front line, who are unfortunately not. Otherwise, there are other kinds of problems, which I also referred to in my speech before the agenda. At the MÁV, workers indicated that they believe that this is a serious threat to a pre-installed alcohol probe. There's a lot of people who have to go to the same probe installed and blow it, and that's a serious risk. According to my information, this was indicated by the trade union to the MÁV General Staff; this was the problem in the last few days that I had sent directly to the Ministry, and I received feedback that this practice was still in place. I would like to ask everyone to pay attention to these signals and try to deal with them in place and to see how well these signals are justified and, if necessary, to take the appropriate measures. In the name of me and my faction, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I can say that our intention is not to make a statement in the press, but to do our best to preserve the safety and health of Hungarian people. Thank you.
u2020-03-23-25	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-03-23-26	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Firstly, we thank you for your attitude, honourable Member, which you have tried to show to the other groups, the opposition group, in the speeches before the agenda. We are trying to do this ourselves, and I think you can see that we are in constant daily contact with pharmacists, trade associations and hospitals, asking for continuous feedback from them, obviously not overloaded with administration, because patient care is the primary task of hospitals, but regardless, we are asking for feedback on what is exactly the most necessary for the hospital, and we are also trying to get it every day, every week. You yourself pointed out that there was a bigger problem in other countries, that there was a bigger problem when they didn't act in time, and we can already see the Italian example and other cases, which is why we need to be as quick as possible. Anyone who moves faster, who takes action faster, can better prevent trouble. If you look at when we have adopted some measures here in Hungary compared to the first registered case, that is why speed is important, which is why the bill on the table of Parliament is important, then it seems that every day is important. The emergency was announced in Hungary on the 7th day following the first registered case, in Italy on the 38th day. If you look at the date of the change to digital teaching in schools, i.e. when the school visit for educational purposes was taken in Hungary, then on the 12th day following the first registered case, in Austria on the 21st day, in Italy on the 34th day, in Sweden on the 47th day of the university. If you look at the time the government closed the nightclubs, you can see that in Hungary on the 13th day, in Austria on the 21st day, in Italy on the 37th day, in Spain on the 44th day, in France on the 54th day compared to the first registered case. When the event was banned, Hungary entered on day 7, Poland on day 11, Austria on day 14, Spain on day 28, Italy on day 37, Sweden on day 40, France on day 56. That is why it is necessary for the government to be given authority and to be able to act quickly, which it has already done. These measures are the measures that we would like you to continue to take as long as there is an epidemic and therefore there is a legal emergency. [[15.20]] The border lock was introduced on the 13th day, the Austrians on the 24th day compared to the first infected, the Spanish on the 45th, the Swedish on the 48th, the French on the 56th day. If I look at the same measures not for the first infected case, but for the first death, Hungary announced the emergency four days before the first death, while Italy only announced 16 days after the first death. We suspended education in school buildings two days before the first death, in Austria five days after that, in Italy 12 days after that. We banned clubs and cultural institutions on the 2nd day after the first death in Austria on Day 5 in Italy on Day 15. If you look at when the events were banned compared to the first death, the events were banned in Hungary 4 days before the first death, while in Italy only 15 days after the first death. The same is true of the border closure: two days after the first death, there was a border closure in Hungary, Austria 8 days later, Sweden 8 days later. These examples show that speed is extremely important in this matter, so that we can take preventive action as soon as possible. You can see, Mr President, that every day the operational tribe is holding a press conference, in which it tries to say very widely and clearly what is important to people every day, not just on weekdays, on weekends, clearly to everyone. The Kronorvirus.gov.hu website has been created, whose ads can be seen everywhere. This is a credible source of news. This is very, very important that people always check and reporters also check the information so that they can get real information, since accurate information in this case can serve precisely orderliness and health preservation in the future. It was important for the apothecaries to apply protective equipment first, so that they themselves would not be in danger. When I was in the pharmacy, I saw everyone as cooperating with the people who came there. We also provided this free of charge to general practitioners. We have sought to ensure that, although there is a shortage of protective equipment everywhere in the world, those who work on the front line in health care receive it to a sufficient degree. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-27	Now it's Ferenc Gyurcsány, then Bertalan Tóth and Peter James.
u2020-03-23-28	The Prime Minister says we need brave men now. Indeed, they are also very needed. But do you know what real courage is these days? What the health workers have done over the last few weeks, they've done their job without protective equipment. If you're so brave, sit over there. Even today, the Prime Minister says that intensive care units provide a mask for screening the virus. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Special mask!]] That is, only for doctors who are already clearly, proven to be very sick; others are not. He thinks it's okay. Do you have the courage to sit with them? To be honest, it's not a question of courage, it's a rhetorical question. And these people go in every day, and they didn't get protective equipment, and they didn't get it until today, and they know exactly what the Secretary of State said, that the multitude of general doctors would get at most this barely-alert green mask, against every promise. Against all promises! That's the problem. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gets a special mask...]] I think it is not okay for the Prime Minister to say that we will resolve this crisis without you. The Member may say that this is a very correct remark; that is not what I think; because it cannot be fire and water from the same mouth at the same time. On the one hand, to demand that there be some kind of national unity, and when you see a debate in Parliament, which is quite natural, you say that you can do it without yourselves. What do you think? What do you think? ! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Because you will not give your support!]] I would be happy to try to find out about GDP, if this is the Prime Minister's request, you obviously know by heart what the share of health in GDP in 2010 was, and obviously you also know how much it is now. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] I bet they're in trouble here because they weren't prepared for this song. Well, I'll help you. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] I asked for a share, Mr. Secretary, so let's try to understand the concept, because that's what the Prime Minister asked us to do. Well, I'm telling you, according to the closing accounting laws you filed, in 2010 our common national income, public finances spent 4.6 percent on health care, and now how much? Four! At current current prices, this would be HUF 240 billion less if the share were the same; if only the same. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Well, that's a problem. That's a problem, ladies and gentlemen. The problem is that in recent years, in the most important cases: the social sphere, education, health care, you have no attention or money, and now that we have this problem, we are in trouble. This is not a very old problem, even a few weeks ago, the Honourable Prime Minister, who is now talking about national unity, said in his morning radio interview that the whole history of the virus is all about diverting attention from the greatest global crisis, asylum. Secretary of State, is that what your boss said three weeks ago? That's what he said. Three weeks ago, everything he'd done for years, he wanted to ask the refugee question. Everything! Well, now he can't play it in front of us; he's been playing it for years. While we see an illegal refugee on average every day, for the third year, some kind of crisis caused by mass migration has been declared. Well, that's why the congressmen don't trust you. 'Cause once you're given the authority to do something, honestly, after one point, you lie the star off the sky. That's the problem. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] You don't have to, please, by law of authority, to have enough tests in the country, to have enough tests, to have masks, and to continue. By the way, if you're afraid there won't be a mandate for two days, call a parliamentary meeting on Friday. We have not accepted the agenda points; they can still do so. We'll be here on Friday if that's what you want. There you go, and you won't miss a day. Don't you want to work? There's a crisis! Get back to work, colleagues. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2020-03-23-29	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again.
u2020-03-23-30	Mr. President. As far as the health situation and numbers are concerned, 6,000 more doctors serve in Hungary compared to the last government year on the left, and we spend 700 billion forints more. It doesn't matter whether you try to take it or deny it, it remains a fact: we spend 700 billion forints more. And another important thing that we may not have talked about today: if you had done your will, there would be paying health care in Hungary today; then those who are experiencing symptoms these days would have to pay money to investigate them or receive treatment. How fortunate it is that, in recent years, Ferenc Gyurcsány's policy is not in force in health care! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As far as your comment is concerned, we are meeting an illegal immigrant: yes, because we have a border lock, that's why! I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that about three and a half million people are staying south of our borders, and Turkey has opened its borders, and, as much as it hurts you, yes, the issue of migration is also strongly linked to the epidemiological situation, such as the release of tens of thousands of people in Iran, and there is a risk of moving from prisons to Europe. I would also like to inform you of the fact that you have left out of your speech that in recent days many decisions have been made: there is no education in schools, but the digital curriculum has entered into force; it is forbidden to hold events; the border closure has entered into force; the ban on entry has entered into force; and many decisions have been made because the negative economic consequences of the virus have appeared immediately at the same time. Tourism is practically grounded, the catering industry and the event planning sector are having a very difficult time, but I could also mention passenger transport and the cultural sector and many other sectors. This is why the Government decided to introduce a contribution exemption until 30 June in the sectors seriously affected. The Government also decided to suspend the obligation to repay loans entered into before 18 March. This has not received enough attention in recent minutes, but I would like to say that this also applies to loan contracts, credit contracts and financial leasing; it also applies to interest and capital repayments, and also to fees. This step, I think, is worth helping hundreds of thousands of people. [[15.30]] And if I may add that the government has decided today that another 81 thousand small businesses will be exempted from paying the cadaver tax, I think that this is a very important step. The government will not by any means suspend evictions, tax collections, and extend the period of exit of the child and child for the period after the end of the emergency. If I recall correctly, these are proposals that you have raised in the last few days, so much for the government's ability to cooperate or not. The government supports all measures that can save people's lives and protect jobs. The announcement of an emergency has provided a basis for these measures, but further action is expected to be needed, and we can be quite sure of that. So now the Parliament must decide to prolong this emergency and to support today's departure from house rules. The government supports this because it is the only way to ensure that decisions can be made early and quickly. We are in a situation where speed can save lives and jobs. In the current epidemiological situation, the government has a lot of responsibility, but opposition parties are not able to exclude themselves from responsibility. I think there is no room for party political considerations right now. So, honourable House, honourable left-wing Members, we have had a lot of debates here in recent years; there will be, as I look at Mr Group leader's speeches, let us say, on the issue of economic crisis management. But there are times when there is no other way but the path of unity. Now we are living in weeks where this is needed: party political debates wait, but the virus does not wait when it spreads around the world. So no matter how the opposition parties, the left-wing parties, decide to vote today, the government will go to the wall to stop this virus and reduce its negative consequences. And in this fight we count on the support of all Hungarians, and they can count on the government. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-23-31	Now it is to Bertalan Tóth; and after Peter James, István Hollik.
u2020-03-23-32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We did not start talking about cooperation here in the opposition benches, but the Prime Minister spoke at the press conference after the meeting of the operational tribe. And then, in his rejoinder, he hit millions of people's outstretched hands in cooperation, making it clear that he has 133 soldiers, and we are not needed here, and he will fight this battle alone. If we refuse to accept unconditionally what you put on our table, then he will not count on our cooperation in this. They completely misunderstood what I was talking about in the matter of trust. [[Complaining from the benches of the governing parties: You're lying!]] Today, there are millions of voters in Hungary who do not want to give you permission to govern regulations without a deadline. It can be explained with a legal twist, it can be said that this is not the case, and it is not the case, and millions of people today believe that you will surely abuse this mandate. I'm not sure we think so, but millions of people think so today. That is why we have made the proposal to include a deadline in this draft law, which Parliament can, after a deadline, negotiate the government decrees which I would like to tell you that we could have discussed here in Parliament, could have been negotiated without declaring an emergency, in addition to agreeing to the announcement. I'm sorry, they're asking us to deviate from house rules today. Why didn't they ask us to make house rules for the extension of the lawn and the lawn? Why didn't you ask me to suspend the executions? Why don't you ask me to order distance education? I'm sorry, we're sitting in this room if we're not in this room, we're here, and we're at your disposal. They would have been able to bring them in in the form of laws, and the Parliament would have voted for them. It's just that this is once again your perverse political campaign against opposition politicians to prove that what you say can only be right in what we say and that is in the service of the virus. Sorry, it is you who destroy the cooperation that we have offered, we have stretched out our hands on behalf of millions of Hungarian voters. They should have done nothing but put in this bill that on 30 June the Parliament would discuss the regulations you have made. It's the only one we asked for. And if there is an objective obstacle to this, it can still be extended or voted on electronically. That's what we asked you to do, nothing else. And that's what they said no to, and that's what your prime minister said no to. And considering that many of our proposals have appeared in government measures, yes, of course we are pleased, but there is also a huge misunderstanding, because what you are predicting is that there will be a recession here and a long-term preparation for the economy to be restarted by the whole world, Europe and Hungary, regardless of which people are losing their jobs, and these people today can expect the humiliating job-seeking allowance that has now been laid down in the law for 3 months. That is why we demand that the unemployment benefit be increased and that it be extended. And we didn't necessarily demand a raise, although it should have been done to you in health care a long time ago. I'm sorry. Look at how much resources have been taken out of health care in recent years, in proportion to GDP. You can say here that billions more and billions more, but much less in proportion to GDP growth in both health and education. The neighbouring countries have long since left us in this regard, and they must now run around in order to put this supply in order at some level to deal with this crisis. We said that if the police were entitled to a one-time allowance, they should also pay health care workers 500 thousand forints, as well as those in the social sector who are in the front now. Not just protective equipment, strengthen their livelihoods, so that you don't have to think about how to make a living at home in the fight. These are the proposals that we insist on, and please consider; there is still time, consider this deadline, and in that case Parliament will be able to make a consensus decision. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-33	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2020-03-23-34	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, It's not a very long bill on the Parliament's table, and it's making very clear and clear sentences. There are no devious rules, no rules referring to them; there are perfectly clear sentences in them, which say what Mr.Máté Kocsis quoted today in the second paragraph of the second paragraph. § 2 that the government may exercise this extraordinary power to the extent necessary, proportionate to the objective pursued, in order to prevent, treat, eradicate, and prevent or avert the harmful effects of the human epidemic under the Regulation. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] In paragraph 2, the Government may exercise this exceptional power to the extent necessary, proportionate to the objective pursued, in order to prevent, manage, eradicate and prevent or eliminate the human epidemic under the Regulation, i.e. a coronal virus epidemic. (Bence of Turdai intervenes. ) This is precisely where it is written that the government is not authorized to ask other questions, only what it has done in recent days, when it has taken the measures with which education has changed completely; with which the government has closed the borders; with which the government has banned the events; with which the government has closed the clubs and cultural institutions. These are precisely the measures that protect people's health and life, and the measures that help people and the economy to stay on their feet in the face of various tax incentives, deferrals and benefits. These measures have been taken so far. These are confirmed by this bill, and it gives a mandate in this area, with a limited content and a time limit, since it is only for the purpose of preventing, managing, eliminating, eliminating the emergency, the epidemiological situation and for the purposes of related economic measures. We especially thank you for making our Sunday a special language lesson within the framework of full power and milk power. [[15.40]] But this pointed to the fact that this is a limited mandate both in time and in content. It is not true at all what you say that the government can do anything from now on. The government can do everything it can to try to make this virus as risky as possible and then try to get life back to normal. That's the only thing this bill applies to, nothing else. And in order to bring this national case, the national case of the fight against the virus, down to the daily political mud-throwing level, you will explain everything in this law that is not in it. It's a sentence, everyone can read it, it's very clear, very clear. That's why you're explaining everything that's not in it, what kind of general authority this would be for the government. There's nothing like that in there. This text is very well defined, with the power to fight the virus and to keep people and the economy above the surface. Nothing more, nothing more. The other issue is that you are in such a political position that you are all obliged to follow Ferenc Gyurcsány's policy, and he always, on every occasion, represents the most extreme anti-government position. He says there's no deal with Orbán, we can remember it's written out in big letters, and now there's nothing you can do but line up behind him. And even if they thought so, because we heard from the Fidesz faction leader that there were moments when the possibility of consensus would have been so good, how much calmer people would have felt and more secure! There was a consensus, but it is clear that the former Prime Minister is only interested in sharpening the conflict and there is no national issue for him. Just as it was not in the case of Hungarians across the border, it is not in this matter either. And you have become his prisoners. What is meant is expenditure on health and education, honourable Member: it has often been said here in Parliament, it was only your governance that, before 2010, the OECD has shown that it has reduced the per capita health spending. There was no other country, none of the most developed countries. In the period since then, when the same seven-year term was examined after 2010, the seventh largest increase was in Hungary, because we increased health expenditure by HUF 770 billion compared to your budget. And in the same way, we have increased educational expenditure by more than 500 billion; we are spending 350 billion more on education wages only this year than we have spent in 2010 on the budget you adopted. This situation clearly shows that it was a very important decision when we said that in this cycle, we are raising the wages of nurses by 72 percent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-35	Now it's James Peter's turn.
u2020-03-23-36	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, The bill that you have just put on the table has been given many names: overpowering law, delegation law, crown law, and the rest, but basically one word can describe this bill, and that one word is a coup d'état. Because you're planning a coup exactly. The emergency has given the government a very strong mandate to govern either by way of a regulation or by way of a parliament, and this is the case, because it is indeed an emergency, and it is necessary to make rapid and important decisions. There is no debate here about the need to prolong the emergency, the question is just how long we should give the Hungarian government the authority to govern without a parliament with regulations. We say that we should follow the practice that has been done so far, because there have been several emergencies in Hungary, and in these situations Parliament has generally given the government the extraordinary authority for two to three months, and when it is justified, it has given the government another mandate. We think that if you expect a health worker or a law enforcement officer to work day and night every day, then you can't let a congressman do it every two or three months without getting together and making the right decisions. That's what we advise. And you are suggesting that this is not good, because it is not enough for Viktor Orbán. You are not asking for two months and three months, but for a period that Viktor Orbán says is enough. He will decide when there is no longer an emergency in Hungary. If this is decided in a year's time, the state of emergency will be one year, if it is decided in ten years' time, then the state of emergency will last ten years; until then, Parliament will not have to be convened; until then, the population, the freedom of property, the freedom of expression, and the election will not have to be held. The question is therefore very, very simple, brutally simple, and it seems that it is justified to give Viktor Orbán a lifelong mandate for regulation governance, or it is not justified. What I'm saying is that in a kingdom, it's justified, but not in a democracy. In democracy, even in an extraordinary situation, Parliament is able to meet every two or three months and make the necessary decisions. This is what you want to take from the Hungarian people. It seems that while we are fighting the coronal virus, Viktor Orbán is only fighting the virus. But we don't need a virus, we don't need a crown. We don't want to eliminate democracy, we want to eliminate the epidemic, and that doesn't require unlimited power for an unlimited period of time, it needs protective equipment, testing, masks, curfew, and financial assistance for those in distress. Colleagues, we oppositionists will continue and will continue to be constructive with regard to the protection of the country. But you'll have to excuse us if there's a minimal trust deficit towards you. We can remember that you introduced the crisis caused by mass immigration in 2016, and have continued to prolong this crisis ever since, even if one or two Afghans are on the border. What is the guarantee that the emergency will not be the same? What is the guarantee that, after the epidemic has passed, you will not extend the emergency again and again, for example, in order not to have to hold elections in Hungary in 22 or 26? Is Viktor Orbán a guarantee of this? The man who's already ruined the rule of law is the guarantee, and now he's ready to legislate his own crown? Well, fellow Members, that is not what the electorate has authorized us to do. We've been sent here by people to help and control your work through legislation. In this situation, one of the most important things I have said before is to preserve the unity of Hungarians. This proposal, on the other hand, undermines the unity precisely, because this proposal sends a message to opposition voters that you want to use the emergency to build a total dictatorship in Hungary. This proposal sends the message to opposition voters that they want to fool them again, that they want to abuse their trust again when trust and discipline are one of the most important. Colleagues, in an emergency, let us not have to worry about what your ulterior motive is again. No ulterior motives in an emergency. There's a danger of protection and a struggle for human life, and in this fight, the government can count on Jobbik's support, if necessary, every month, every two months, if necessary, every three months, to make the necessary decisions. Unlimited power for an unlimited period of time is not necessary. Sober, all the more. Be sober. Don't be intoxicated by the mamo of extraordinary power, because the awakening will be very, very bitter. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-23-37	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor.
u2020-03-23-38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, I have listened to your speech and thought how painful it is that, although Jobbik is the largest opposition group in 2018, it may still be so, although you are constantly fading, but you are the largest opposition group, and therefore you have the greatest resources at your disposal to employ experts, but your speech to Parliament has not been supported today by expertise. I am sure that you have not used legal expertise, because, Mr President, I must say that you have no idea what the bill before us is about. What you've told me in these five minutes has nothing to do with the bill. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Sensitive reading! Words!]] Political performance was excellent and it was not my place to appreciate it, I do not agree with it, but I recognise the talent, but that, in a legal sense, between what you have said and what lies on the table of the House, there is absolutely no connection. If there had been at least one expert in the Jobbik faction, there would have been no need for a Member of Parliament to open the Fundamental Law, it would have seen that the Fundamental Law is one of the most detailed ways of settling special legal order situations in an international comparison. There are six special legal conditions. Ad absurdum, there have been criticisms before, if you remember that there are too many special legal conditions, and there are too many guarantees in the Fundamental Law, and this causes uncertainty. We think it's okay that there are so many special legal conditions, because as many special situations as there are, there are so many solutions. In particular, in the event of such and similar elemental disasters, the Fundamental Law assigns to the government for 15 days to declare an emergency. This emergency, on the other hand, only survives, and that is why we are gathered here today, the most important reason why we are here today is that, in the event of an emergency that can be announced for 15 days, the provisions adopted here will only continue if these measures are confirmed by the Parliament, on the one hand, and the extension of the scope of the emergency. [[15.50]] We would like to ask you to do so, so we would like to ask for your consent to the protection against the coronal virus, because if you do not contribute to a derogation from the house rules, then 15 days will pass, and these measures will expire under the Fundamental Law. All these measures, such as border protection, restrictions on businesses, economic measures, measures to protect health, will expire, and we may be able to come up with a solution to deal with the situation, but legal certainty will be undermined precisely by your action, at a time when the country is most needed to show unity in defence. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] As the Prime Minister said, they are in complete misunderstanding: the Parliament may decide to withdraw the mandate at any time. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] But I'm asking you, let me ask you a question, Mr. Group Leader. "You take responsibility for putting it in, as you demand, a deadline, and then, unfortunately, the epidemic leads to a situation that has resulted in other countries abroad, and the Parliament is otherwise indecisive, and when we are in greatest need, [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] So we can't prolong the emergency? Will you take that chance? [[Zoltán Magyar presents his laptop. Peter James: Digitally!]] I understand that they have creative solutions, but they have not been accepted by Parliament, by such procedure as you are talking about, and on the grounds that they refuse to keep the measures in force this week, there is no such procedure. [[Hungarian Zoltán: We do! We're doing it!]] What you're saying is illegal. It's not a place where you just type in a text that you voted like this and so that's how it's gonna be. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You've got to be kidding me, Mr. Team Leader. It's a serious place, there's a serious procedure here. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. James Peter: Unlimited power...!]] There is no unlimited power, Parliament can at any time withdraw its support for the protection against the coronal virus, with all guarantees contained in the proposal. We wrote it, I was there in the seven-party negotiations: necessity, proportionality, commitment to purpose, the Constitutional Court checks. If it hadn't been written in it, it would still be so in constitutional law, because under the Fundamental Law it should be so, so it's quite enough that this thing should be included in the Fundamental Law, and that the Constitutional Court will melt it out of this, from the text of the Fundamental Law, as it has melted it, we don't even have to write it; but we wrote it in it because it was your request. Despite this, they did not support it, thus endangering the lives and safety of the Hungarian people. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Their souls on it! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-39	Now it's time for István Hollik. Here you go.
u2020-03-23-40	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It is no exaggeration to say that both Europe and Hungary are at war, but the enemy is invisible, but we can now see that it is extremely dangerous. The nation states have fought the corona virus everywhere, doing what they see best. With us, the government has done the right thing to protect human life, which is why the primary goal now can be to slow down the spread of the epidemic and to protect the most vulnerable, the elderly and immunocompromised patients, and this requires enormous effort and a great deal of sacrifice from all our Hungarian countrymen. Therefore, I would also like to thank everyone, the doctors and the nurses who are fighting to save human lives in the front line, perhaps not the teachers, who have started our children's digital education very creatively and quickly. But I also thank the companies, the companies operating in Hungary, for taking the serious measures, knowing that this will be an extremely economic burden for them. And thank you to all Hungarians who follow the instructions of the authorities. We also thank those who self-organize to help their elderly friends, relatives, collections, volunteering in the municipalities, their work is invaluable. So people, companies and professionals do their job, but the government also does its job, which has declared an emergency, and therefore closed the borders, introduced a ban on events, limited the opening hours of shops, and announced economic measures last week, and extended their range by another six points today. Now, let's not even think about what would have happened if the country had been in the state of the country during the Gyurcsány government. Then the news would probably not be about economic measures, job protection, but about the state's inability to pay and the IMF banging on Hungary's door. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What does this have to do with the corona virus?!]] So you can see that healthcare, law enforcement, civil society and government are all trying to help the Hungarian people by all means, so it is time for the Parliament to finally do its job. Dear fellow Members, In the light of the latter, we also need to say a few words about the responsibility of the Parliament. In such a crisis, there is simply no time for the government to wait for the normal, weeks-long course of legislation, and action must be taken immediately, because it is human lives. We must insist that, in such an emergency situation, the government is not restricted in decision-making by anyone within the constitutional framework, of course. People's lives may depend on the government's ability to do everything in a matter of minutes. This capacity can be guaranteed by the adoption of the Crown Virus Act. Therefore, I would still like to draw attention to the following facts in the field of responsibility: the government can declare the emergency for 15 days, it will expire on the 26th, so we must extend the state of emergency; if that is not the case, then there is a danger that borders will have to be opened, the exposure will increase, the number of infections will rise sharply. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] I don't think anyone can take that responsibility. Since no one can tell us when the coronal virus epidemic will end, we cannot give a valid mandate until a specific date. For those who visit dictatorship, I recommend that you pay attention to the text of the bill, which has already been presented in detail by the secretary of state. He says that the government can exercise this power in order to prevent, manage and eradicate the human epidemic and prevent or eliminate its harmful effects. It's not unlimited! That is why I am sad when I hear Peter James speak of an unlimited mandate. I'll be quiet, because it's not the time for party political battles. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But I'm gonna ask you in a low-key way, is anyone talking about an unlimited term of authority normal? [[Intercoms and applause from the ranks of the governing parties. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Because I don't think so. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-41	Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor.
u2020-03-23-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, We well remember the Prime Minister's speech last week, to which the opposition factions responded, and agreed unanimously that in the present situation all responsibility lies with the government, all responsibility lies with the Prime Minister, and it was possible to conclude that if the responsibility is on the government, then decisions must also be taken by the government. What we are talking about today is a derogation from a house rule, where opposition parties have a responsibility and their responsibility is shown here, so that they can put the government and the representatives of the majority of governments in a position to decide tomorrow, on the one hand, to adopt the measures taken so far by the government, which, as we have heard here today, seems to have been proposed by the opposition parties, so it is very incomprehensible that if they cannot accept this, the other part of which is that the governing parties can vote on the kind of opportunity for the government to continue making quick decisions in an operational manner on the basis of the emergency. [[16.00]] Some of my fellow Members here also mentioned in the speeches before the agenda that Parliament could have taken these decisions, that it could have voted on the part of the opposition parties, which are included in government regulations, from the closure of borders to distance education in respect of schools, but do not take into account that, according to house rules, legislation is currently a process of about six weeks in a normal timetable. Where were we six weeks ago, where are we now, and where will we be in six weeks? If you think about this responsibly, you can see that you're talking about something that isn't real. And anyone who claims that the government is abusing its power, looking at the past period, has an action taken by the government that was not born in connection with the epidemiological situation, has planned a measure that would not arise in this context, look at the operation of the operational tribe, the proposals they have drawn up. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Prime Minister has also told us today about the polarities that are taking place, what possible steps can be taken when the epidemic situation is escalating. It is also included in the bill which stands before us that, notwithstanding the fact that the government has such a power to derogate from the current regulations by regulation, the government regularly reports before the Parliament what kind of activity the Prime Minister has been doing today and has told us where we are and what has happened in the last week, and that, if the Parliament does not meet, the government will report to the President of Parliament and the leaders of the political groups about where we are. The bill also states that the Parliament may decide to change this situation before the emergency expires. So, as Prime Minister said in his speech before the agenda, the Parliament has all the powers left in its hands to the end. In fact, the decision that we are making now is about the fact that the government is really going to make the regulations that are going to be published today, which would be unthinkable within the parliamentary framework, to respond to the situation from hour to hour. How do we imagine, within the current legislative framework, that, for example, compliance with public procurement and other rules [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] For billions, should we order medical equipment and protective equipment from abroad? [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's the problem! You don't have to order now.]] By the way, according to the protocol, the equipment needed for normal operation in health has been present all the time, and the purchases that are adapted to the size of the current epidemiological situation have been taking place, and as the epidemiological situation deteriorates, it is clear that more and more equipment is being introduced into the country, and this is also being distributed, since not only the epidemiological hospitals are now receiving these supplies, but also the intensive departments that can be found in the other hospitals in the country, and hopefully everyone can rest in this area tomorrow as well. So you are right, my fellow Member, we ask the opposition parties to take advantage of the opportunity to pass on the responsibility to the government. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Dr. Brenner Koloman: Congratulations!]] so that you can decide on operational issues in this situation, and you have the opportunity to facilitate this either by your absence or by your decision. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-43	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki before the last agenda. Here you go.
u2020-03-23-44	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the coronal virus epidemic, the first and most important thing for all of us is the protection of the lives of Hungarian people, to which the government, in cooperation with the operational tribe, gives all the information and all the help that I would like to thank. However, there are few good intentions from all governments, few of the many fast and good decisions that will be made, little of the support that we can give in the legislative process, if there are no people who are involved in implementing these decisions by risking their lives and their health. I would therefore particularly like to thank all doctors, health workers, policemen and soldiers for the daily hard work they are doing in the interests of all our countrymen, and I would ask them that, although we have long months ahead of us, the endurance with which they are doing their job and the expertise with which they are increasing the effectiveness of their work should continue to strengthen their work. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Of course, ensuring the protection of people's lives and the preservation of their health is a priority, but, unfortunately, it is clear that the epidemic has a secondary effect, coupled with a prolonged and extremely serious economic crisis. We can well see the countries that are ahead of us in this regard, the enormous damage they have caused, how much unemployment they have lost, how many factories and plants have had to shut down, what problems are involved in ensuring the functioning of strategic economic companies. It is therefore very important that rapid, effective and effective measures be taken in this area as well. The government's previous decisions to help employers and workers, in particular by focusing on the preservation of existing jobs, I think that they were the best decision as far as possible. The fact that employers do not have to pay contributions for wages and that workers have to pay only a minimum health insurance contribution, I think it is a very good step to keep as many people as possible at work. The new measures that Prime Minister has announced today are also very important, and we are confident that their implementation will be effective. I also hope that the Government will find, in line with further discussions, the decisions that will ensure the further protection of economic operators and the re-strengthening of the post-crisis situation. The situation of the Hungarian economy today is very important. I think that, compared to a situation in 2008, when the global economic crisis hit us in a major recession, we had no room for manoeuvre, no good decisions were made, so hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers were on the streets, unemployment was skyrocketing, and the performance of the Hungarian economy fell to virtually zero. Under the current circumstances, thank God, thanks to previous economic decisions, we started from a much better situation thanks to the successful economic policy of the government. However, this does not mean that there will be no painful consequences of this economic crisis. It is therefore our task, and in this I ask for the support of my fellow Members, to find solutions to ensure the living space of companies and private businesses, and to give them the opportunity to keep their employees. And the people who have lost their jobs in this period, and they must offer new job opportunities. I therefore welcome the Government's idea that it would like to take a new programme to stimulate job creation and boost the economy, a next epath of the economic protection action plan, and a next step. Ladies and gentlemen, These are difficult times, and the sad situation is that most of the battle is still ahead of us. I ask the government to continue to do everything possible to save the lives of Hungarian people and to ensure that the effects of the economic crisis accompanying the epidemic are as gentle as possible. I call on my fellow Members, both on the pro-government and on the opposition side, to support the Government in all aspects of its work in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-45	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2020-03-23-46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you have said, the first and most important thing in this difficult situation is the fight against the virus, the health of people, the safety of people, the protection of people. However, this entails expenditure, which is why the government's first and most important task was to provide budgetary resources from a financial point of view. Budgetary resources must not be an obstacle to the fight against the virus, as Prime Minister has already said in Parliament. The action group shall follow the decision of the operational tribe and shall make all resources available. The budget will be amended as necessary, the budget will be diverted for defence, the budget for 2020 and the budget for 2021. I think that the government is also responsible for this issue. As regards the economic effects mentioned by the Member, we know that they will be very serious and have very serious consequences. What we know is, unfortunately, the crisis in tourism, because in weeks they essentially cancelled all the bookings in Hungary, the planned visits. [[16.10]] This will reduce hospitality, reduce service and, unfortunately, reduce consumption. This is followed by the cessation of production, as unfortunately this is the result of the development of production chains and dependence on other countries, as we have already experienced in Hungary with regard to car manufacturers. Unfortunately, the result will be unemployment. I think that the government, the Hungarian government, has taken the first step in European countries and made a bold, quick decision, and has now taken two major decisions to protect families and Hungarian businesses. I would also like to point out that, for example, in Germany, the government is discussing this economic package today and later presenting it to Parliament. The government's first serious decision is to protect families. The best way for the government to protect families is for the burden on them, the loans, their repayments, which, by the way, means five million customers and 7,4 million contracts to be declared a moratorium by 31 December of this year. So nearly five million can decide whether to continue to repay, to repay your loans, to pay off your liabilities to banks and financial institutions, or not. This is accompanied by the announcement of an eviction and seizure moratorium and the extension of the child during an emergency. At present, there are so many concrete decisions for families, which, I think, in the present situation, can be very, very helpful to all Hungarian families. However, this is also true of Hungarian businesses, because in the sectors in which there is the greatest difficulty, this affects about 15 thousand businesses and 300,000 people's work, there is no need to pay social contributions tax or contributions under their old name. But small businesses don't have to pay for kata besides taxi drivers, not even 81 thousand businesses today. In the same way, tax executions will stop, which will make it much easier for businesses to operate. It is very important that a moratorium on credit repayment also applies to businesses. This, by the way, concerns some 380,000 contracts for 145 thousand companies. Here I note that the Hungarian National Bank also helps to resolve liquidity problems. Dear Parliament, Protecting jobs is our next and most important task. I think the Hungarian economy is strong, and we can defend ourselves, in which the government helps. In order to give us confidence, let me give you the news: according to the research department of the Bank of America Financial Services Group, the Hungarian economy is also overachieving in this difficult situation, an increase of 0.8 per cent of GDP is expected. This is the highest in Central Europe. For example, in the Czech Republic and Romania, these researchers predict a relapse. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian government, Hungary, the Hungarian economy is prepared to deal with the crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-23-47	If the ladies and gentlemen of this House have taken their seats, I would like to ask for a presence check, not a vote, to see that everyone has a voting machine. I would ask the technical staff to secure the conditions for this, and as soon as the option appears on the monitor, I will order the presence-check vote. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Please press one of the buttons on your desk. [[Attendance check. Present: 181; away: 18.]] Thank you. I'm asking you, there's someone whose computer didn't work, according to your sightings. [[There's no candidate.]] There are no candidates. Then I'll see that everyone's computer works, and then we'll move on. Before the vote, I would like to ask Mr Dezső Szigély to present further speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-03-23-48	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, DK; László Sebian-Petrovszki, DK; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik. The following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Antal Csárdi, LMP; Anett Bősz, DK; Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Miklós Soltész, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. For the speech following the agenda tomorrow, Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, DK. [[Defiance.]]
u2020-03-23-49	I'm sorry, it's probably...
u2020-03-23-50	It's written wrong, really, I'm sorry. [[Defiance.]]
u2020-03-23-51	It's not the notary's fault. I'm sorry. I'm glad we've managed to get some clarity for today, but let's take things seriously again. Today's agenda will be set. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Secretary of State, they're in their seats. We are now deciding on proposals for derogations from house rules. Dear Parliament, The House Committee has proposed a derogation from house rules in relation to the rules governing the negotiation of immediate questions. A derogation from the house rules was proposed by H/9825. You can get to know him on the website. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2020-03-23-52	Dear Parliament, The House Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution hereinafter referred to as HSZ 65. According to its powers under § (1) of the Act, it proposes the following to the Parliament. The National Assembly shall, until the date of termination of the emergency declared on 11 March 2020 in order to prevent or eliminate the consequences of the human epidemic which threatens the safety of life and property, in order to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens, if, during the event of an emergency, the Parliament, with the vote of more than half of the Members of Parliament present in the event of an emergency, does not depart from the provisions of the resolution rule of the House so that the notification of immediate questions on the day of the meeting on whose agenda or planned agenda the hour of immediate questions shall be possible not later than three hours before the opening of the sitting day, and not later than two hours before the opening of the meeting day of the second week before the opening of the sitting. Within the above deadline, the independent Member may also request that he be able to ask questions within the immediate Question Time by submitting only one such intention for the meeting day. At the hour of immediate questioning, the independent Members may ask a total of one question per meeting, by establishing that the order of their questions, taking into account the date of the notification, is always different from that of the independent Members who have notified the immediate question, giving preference to the Member who has not yet had an immediate question in the event of an emergency. An independent Member may ask his immediate question if one speaker from each political group has been given the opportunity to present an immediate question. The HSP is 126. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 shall apply in so far as the question not referred to in points (a) to (c) is deemed to be withdrawn, and the chairman of the meeting shall give the floor to the independent representative who wishes to ask the next question. [[16.20]]
u2020-03-23-53	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, a vote of four fifths of the Members present is required. I will therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the departure from the house rules of H/9825. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The present proposal was unanimously endorsed by the House with 189 votes in favour. The proposal put forward by the President initiates the National Assembly to act as T/9790 on the control of the coronal virus. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of the bill, it should depart from the regulatory provisions of the decision in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. T/9790/3. can also be found on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the departure from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House did not contribute by 137 votes to 52, with no abstentions, to a derogation from the house rules. Please, if you have a mask in front of your mouth, make sure you don't ruin it by yelling. The Government has initiated that the proposal No 9790 on the control of the coronal virus will be discussed by Parliament in an urgent procedure at this meeting. The emergency proposal is made by T/9790/1. You can get to know him on the website. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present this proposal.
u2020-03-23-54	Dear Parliament, The general debate of the bill shall take place on Tuesday, March 24, 2020 as the first item on the agenda following the votes. An amending proposal should be possible on Tuesday 24 March 2020 until the end of the general debate. The detailed debate phase should be opened by closing the general debate on the bill, the Legislative Committee being the HSZ 46. § 1 after receiving information pursuant to paragraph 1 but subject to Article 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate.
u2020-03-23-55	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. I'm asking you, T/9790 is going to be in an urgent meeting. and the date of the general debate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the emergency proposal by 152 votes in favour, 31 against. The general debate on the proposal will take place on Tuesday, until the closure, as the first item on the agenda following the votes. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. On this basis, the motion put forward by the President initiates the T/9790 on the control of the coronal virus. The Parliament's meeting will be held within a five-hour time frame. At the request of the LMP Group and five independent Members, the resolution on certain house rules shall be adopted in accordance with Article 37. Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2020-03-23-56	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, in view of the time frame increase, is as follows: 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 47 minutes for the KDNP Group; 38 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 32 minutes for the MSZP Group; 25 minutes for the DK Group; 22 minutes for the LMP Group, which is a total of 44 minutes; 21 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 12 minutes for the independent Members whose doubling has been initiated, i.e. a total of 24 minutes. The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers.
u2020-03-23-57	Dear House, It will also come to a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he agrees that the presentation will be discussed within the time frame described by the notary. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal for a time-frame hearing was adopted by 169 votes in favour, 15 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The author initiated that the National Assembly would discuss in an exceptional procedure the 2008 XCIX on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing art organisations. T/9823. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The rapporteur initiated the possibility of submitting an amending proposal within 3 hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate being held as the first item on 24 March 2020 and the decision on the draft amendment should take place on 24 March 2020 and the final vote should take place on 24 March 2020. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. In order to provide for an exceptional procedure, more than half of the Members, i.e. 100 Members, must vote in favour. The decision will now take place. I'm asking you, do you accept T/9823? Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the motion by 134 votes to 34, with 18 abstentions. A proposal to amend the decision we have adopted can be submitted today at 7:28 p.m. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. A decision to amend Parliamentary Decision No 1 shall be taken. S/9817 put forward by the President I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to nevertheless present the content of this.
u2020-03-23-58	Dear Parliament, Point 1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows. On the Committee of European Affairs Mónika Dunai, instead of István Horváth, Dr. Attila Tilki, Tibor Bana; on the Committee of Agriculture instead of János Lázár István Horváth, on the Committee of National Inclusion Dr. Attila Tilki, Fidesz, instead of János Lázár, Fidesz, elected István Horváth as a member of the Committee.2. Point 1.1.2. Point 2 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows. The Parliament elects Tamás Herczeg, Vice-President Fidesz, Vice-President of the Committee, to be elected by László Horváth, Fidesz, instead of the Member. Point 3. Committee on European Affairs under Rule 1 (a) of the Parliamentary Decision Replaced by the Committee on European Affairs [[11 persons]] The text is replaced by the following: Point 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2020-03-23-59	Dear House, Now it's time to make a decision again. I ask the Parliament to accept S/9817. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The personal proposal was adopted by the House with 174 votes in favour, no votes against and 2 abstentions. [[16.30]] Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has asked for an interpellation or a question, these items will not be discussed. We will now continue our work by discussing immediate questions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if you wish to leave the meeting room, as usual, you should do so as usual. We shall wait with patience until the Chamber is empty. [[It's a short break.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-03-23-60	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats in the Chamber; those who do not wish to remain in the Chamber, please leave the Chamber. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, was entitled to respond to the Prime Minister's absence. I would like to ask the lady and the gentleman from Congress to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2020-03-23-61	Thank you very much, Mr President, we will wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-03-23-62	I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this? It's an address. László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, was entitled to respond to the Prime Minister's absence. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-03-23-63	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-03-23-64	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-23-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, First of all, allow me to say that we have had enough of the government's frivolousness, and we demand the immediate introduction of mandatory home quarantine, because at last you must understand and acknowledge that tomorrow's victims will be infected yesterday and today. Dear Minister, If I understand the words of Viktor Orbán and several of his fellow ministers, then the situation with regard to health now is that there are enough of us. There are millions of masks and defence tools, and Viktor Orbán also said that there is no need to close schools, but then he closed them or didn't close them, as you say; it's true, he also said that he would send teachers on unpaid leave. I understand you're saying you don't have to test it at home because it doesn't make any sense for screening purposes. Basically, one of your ministers also says that we in this room can infect each other, because there will be no consequences, at most we will show the symptoms of a stronger flu. If the situation is so good, Minister, then tell us why, in 60 or 90 days' time, in three months' time, Parliament cannot, for example, be in a position for us to gather together, and, for example, against the delegation law, as it would now be adopted, essentially in 60 or 90 days' time, the government will report on its work and we will approve those regulations. The thing is, the two can't happen together. So it can't be as good as Viktor Orbán says and sees it, or, if so, you are basically fooling everyone, because if your argument is true, that in 90 days' time, the Parliament may not be able to meet, then, please, there is a real problem. But to come up with the questions, Minister, why do you not present the territorial data on disease and infection? Do hospitals, nurses, and general practitioners really have enough resources? Will there be a curfew, Minister? Is there really enough of us? Will there be enough in health care in 90 days? Vane device? In 90 days, will you have enough resources for health care? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-03-23-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister László Palkovics. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2020-03-23-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Prime Minister did not say that the situation was good. The Prime Minister said that what we should expect in the coming period will result in a very complicated situation, and therefore we need to approach this situation with proper consideration. Basically, when we are trying to deal with an unusual situation caused by a virus, an economic crisis, we have a lot of aspects to meet at the same time. We must meet the need to keep the number of newly infected people below the capacity of the supply system. We must meet the requirement that, if possible, those at risk receive the care and otherwise do not lead to death. We have to meet the point that we need to keep our current economy in a way that is intact, and we also have to meet the point that it is possible to restart the economy, plus let us not forget the fifth aspect, which is a strong social aspect: we have to meet in part our community and in part other issues related to it. Therefore, there are no trivial solutions. As we looked at the solutions of the surrounding countries, we are in the same environment. There are extreme differences, let's say, in terms of the number of tests, and there are extreme differences in the other direction. On the question of what should happen, let us say, with the total removal ban: Prime Minister, you have answered this question anyway, we will consider this, but we also want consideration here, not to make sudden decisions, to keep everyone at home, but to see how this can be done in a different way so that we can meet the five points mentioned above in some way, but optimized. Is there enough equipment? Each European country is struggling with the same situation, and everyone is trying to ensure that. That's what we do. It has been said several times that our Chinese opening strategy is not working. That's not true. The first transporter arrived this morning, and tomorrow a much bigger plane arrives, and virtually every day there are machines that carry these devices. [[16.40]] So I think that from both the tool and the human side, it's gonna be okay.
u2020-03-23-68	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-03-23-69	Thank you very much. The foundation is that Jobbik will always support the government in what is needed to protect people's lives. That's how it's been. We will not contribute, and we will never contribute to Viktor Orbán using the existing frameworks to build himself a power from which Hungarians do not ask. The Minister said very well: one of our responsibilities and one of the tasks of Hungary is to keep the number of diseases and the number of people infected in the epidemic as low as possible. Then tell me one thing: why the hell isn't there a house quarantine? Why do they still think that people are out on the street, going to places they don't have to go? We demand, and beyond that, that we demand, that we suggest that you introduce a home quarantine. To know exactly who the infected are, we need more tests. They have to take action in this, too. You're behind WHO's ideas, you're behind international trends. If we keep people out on the street, or we let them go out and have irregular contact with each other, if we don't test them, it will lead to one thing: this number of people will exceed their health performance, and so they can do it now...
u2020-03-23-70	Congressman, your time frame is long over.
u2020-03-23-71	... and now they can stop this scenario. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-23-72	I'm asking you to keep it. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-03-23-73	Thank you very much. Thank you, Congressman, for your concern. What I can only say is that it is advisable to trust the Hungarian government more, because on a number of occasions we have proven that we have the right ability and the right opportunity to handle such situations. In this case, I think the range of our abilities is quite wide. Prime Minister mentioned that he had asked for a number of working groups. He asked for a task force led by excellent mathematicians in Hungary, who, by the way, deal with disease estimations and appointments. The numbers of this task force have already proven, partly in the case of the H1N1 virus, and partly in the case of the Ebola virus outbreak 14. We use these models, and we can achieve very serious results with these models. These are the decisions that we will take after our analysis, whether we need to measure more, there is a country in Europe that does not measure at all, or which groups we apply home quarantine to. The effects of these can be calculated, and you are obviously aware of that, since you are a doctor... [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. It's an intervention in the same place.]] No, I'm sorry, lawyer, but he's a medically competent lawyer, because we've had this kind of debate here in Parliament, and then we were quite constructive together. In any case, it shows exactly what it will lead to after the outbreak has spread. So you shouldn't make very quick decisions here, because the plague may be on fire again. So it's a pretty optimistic process, so I'm asking you to accept that answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-74	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What happens now? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister László Palkovics has given the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-23-75	Mr President, Thank you very much. First of all, allow me to say to our great satisfaction that many proposals have been adopted by the government in this serious situation, as proposed by the MSZP. These include e-recept, a moratorium on credit repayment, mobile labs, for example, the SME sector or the individual entrepreneurs, but they also followed our proposals in relation to performers and eviction. The fight against the coronal virus also includes safeguarding the financial security of the most vulnerable elderly. In the coming weeks, the government will rework the budget, so I understand that there will be every opportunity to make transfers. We need to see that inflation is high in Hungary today, food prices in shops are rising dramatically, and the purchasing value of pensions is falling even more dramatically. In such cases, not some charity, but real help is needed by the elderly and the elderly. That is why we MSZPs are proposing to advance payment of the inflation-adjusted pension supplement at the end of the year and pay it now. This would be a real help, and we would like to ask for a minimum 6.5 percent pension increase in Hungary. It is also necessary to see that there are hundreds of thousands of people who have a pension of less than HUF 100,000, so in this critical period I would also like to ask the government to provide a one-time allowance of HUF 20,000 to these pensioners, which would also be a huge help in the payment of medicines at least. Finally, I would like to say that, after thank you, not only thank you and applause for those social workers and health workers on the front line, but they would certainly be entitled to a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000, because they are on the front line, they meet the problem first, the biggest trouble, and they protect us, our lives, so that the virus can't spread any more. If the government has been able to do so in December, we would like to ask health workers and social workers to do so now. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-03-23-76	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by László Palkovics Minister for Innovation and Technology. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-03-23-77	Thank you very much. I think that, in the same way, what I just said concerns these economic matters. I suggest consideration and proper calculations in these cases. I think that, both in the case of pensioners and in the case of healthcare workers, the growth that the government has achieved in recent years shows that these groups are particularly important for the government. In the case of older people, I would also like to add that the Prime Minister mentioned it, and I can mention one very serious aspect: protecting their health, protecting their lives is one of the priorities of this whole epidemic. So we deal with this in all areas. With regard to what the budget redesign will look like, we obviously need to take into account a number of aspects. These aspects will also be taken into account. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-78	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-03-23-79	Thank you very much. There is no debate, Minister, between us, that protecting life is the most important thing. However, it should be noted that if a pensioner cannot buy the right food or medicines in such a critical situation, he could be in a worse situation. The pension increase was 2.8 percent, but the inflation rate was 4.3 percent. It has already eaten pensions, unfortunately, and you know it, and inflation will only increase. The Prime Minister said there's no ceiling on the budget. The budget will be redistributed in such a way that the most vulnerable social groups will receive these funds. I would also like to say that the European Union has clearly indicated that budget expenditure can be increased at the expense of the deficit, so everything is given today in order to support the most difficult people, pensioners, frontline health workers, social workers, but I could also tell you who needs help. Please give them priority. Thank you.
u2020-03-23-80	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2020-03-23-81	The rejoinder was already in the final sentence of the answer. These will obviously be taken into account in budgetary planning within the respective limits. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-82	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: what does the government do to protect the elderly from the coronal virus epidemic? It's an address. Because of his absence, Minister Tibor Pogácsás has given him the right to reply. I ask you, Congressman, do you accept the person you are responding to, or personally from Minister... [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-23-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Minister, you have just said that you are doing everything you can to protect the elderly. Then how come a pensioner still can't buy a mask at the pharmacy, it's just a missing item? You are unable to secure these masks. How is it that if you find it on the Internet somewhere, it's only at a price that can't be paid? You are incapable of putting some kind of ceiling on these things. Dear Secretary of State, The best protection for the elderly is to stay in the apartment, but they need help to do so. First of all, they have to eat and they need drugs. Local governments should also organise once a week shopping for pensioners, as well as catering and delivery of food at the base of kindergarten and school catering. Is the government willing to take care of all this and make the necessary funds available to the municipality? The buying-in fever blew up the price of food. Besides, pensions are rapidly being devalued, the average pension is now less than half of the net income. Retirementers, preparing for an emergency, often lack a single penny. [[16.50]] Will the government grant the owners of pensions of less than HUF 150,000 to a one-time emergency aid of at least HUF 15 000, as proposed by the Democratic Coalition? Finally, are you willing to impose a moratorium on public utility charges and public debts for pensioners, so that they can settle them for at least 90 days without interest for late payment after the emergency has passed? Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-23-85	[[His mic won't say.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The effects of the corona virus are dangerous to everyone, and from this...
u2020-03-23-86	My apologies, Mr. Secretary. We need technical assistance immediately, because it can't be heard. Now maybe you should try again. Be nice. [[Tibor Scratch's microphone still doesn't work.]] No. One moment, please. They're bringing a standing microphone. [[It's happening.]] Thank you.
u2020-03-23-87	Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-88	Let's reset the clock. [[It's happening.]] Thank you.
u2020-03-23-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thus, the coronal virus is equally dangerous to everyone, but the health effects and the course of the disease are clearly the most dangerous to chronic patients and the elderly. We have said this several times from the first minute in the framework of the information campaign, and we are constantly telling you this. That is why we have shaped life in such a way that, as far as possible, elderly people over 65 do not have to leave their homes. Here, we have already taken such measures in relation to doctors and providers of services, and in conjunction with the local governments, together with the local authorities, we are organizing that the elderly, who are in need, can obtain the necessary daily items and food. For this, the necessary institutional network of municipalities is available, all municipalities have an organisation for the provision of the elderly, and in recent years, the various care networks, small settlements, village care networks, and youth care networks have been established to ensure that all elderly people who are in need and who feel the need and check in have access to help. I also have to say that the local authorities have the resources to do so, the conditions for child feeding and catering are in place, and on the basis of these conditions they have the capacity to provide the necessary food for adults and the elderly, in particular, to provide the necessary food and access to lunch. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-90	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-03-23-91	Thank you very much. It is unacceptable that you cannot answer the questions properly even during an epidemic. I think that if something should be punished, it would be necessary to take a strong stand against it. As I understand it, Mr Secretary of State says that they are not willing to give extra resources to the municipalities in order to provide the elderly as much as possible. But let me ask you one more specific question. You decided today that doctors and nurses working near intensive beds will be given special masks and that they brought in surgical masks on suspicion of the coronal virus. Let me ask you what you've done so far. How come you just made that decision? So far, you've endangered the lives of doctors and nurses, thereby endangering the entire Hungarian society, the patients? Who is responsible for this, Mr. Secretary?
u2020-03-23-92	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State in return. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-23-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So the municipalities have resources, and if they need additional resources to carry out their duties, we have the Ministry of Home Affairs IX. It is also possible for municipalities to receive, if necessary, amounts for protection within the scope of Chapter III of the Treaty and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Medical masks have been available so far, and all doctors who dealt with a coronal virus patient who has been treated with a confirmed coronary virus have received the necessary equipment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Lajos Oláh: They're raising money now! You lie without blinking your eyes!]]
u2020-03-23-94	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: who is responsible, Prime Minister? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister László Palkovics has given the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-03-23-95	I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-96	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:.. How will digital education be a real education? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. I ask Congresswoman, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Minister for the answer personally?
u2020-03-23-97	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-03-23-98	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-23-99	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As a result of the coronal virus, schools switched to digital education last week. In most places, institutions and teachers received only one weekend for the changeover. There are different rules for each school to teach, on what basis and by what methods and programmes in the coming period. As a result of the transition, teachers will have enormous energy and creativity to maintain the motivation of students in distance education. This requires completely new methods, learning organisation, ideas for which teachers have worked hard, and I thank you for this. I have a second grade son too, so I can see how this works in practice. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In many places, however, they immediately faced the lack of implementation of the digital education strategy. Most of the tasks have not yet been solved, some of the teachers are not so routine in the field of technical problems and online applications, so they themselves need help; this is also seen at school level in the absence of digital preparedness. Although the Education Office has published a methodology guide which, however, is exhausted in an application and website list or email address, does not provide any additional methodological guidance. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] On this basis, I would like to ask you how you intend to help institutions, teachers, in addition to the website list, to organise education prepared and equipped with digital competences. Thank you.
u2020-03-23-100	Thank you very much. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-03-23-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, we should also thank the teachers, because a lot of people have tried to prepare for this whole new situation over a weekend, because the epidemic itself has brought about the situation of having to switch to digital education. A lot of improvements have been made before, obviously it would have been introduced at a later date, but a lot of things have already been available. If you look at the number of people who have been interested in the first days or went up to the various content-service public education sites, you can see that on one of the first days 190,000 teachers were registered by Crete, the public education IT system, which also has downloaded applications in many places, and recorded 2 million students' entry, so they started to deal with this very intensively. There is a longer methodological recommendation, not only what the congresswoman mentioned, this has been viewed 400,000 times in a few days, in the first days, the Sulinet, the Bookcatalog, the National Public Education Portal, or the Smart Portal contains countless material, with an average of 10 to 50 thousand visitors per day visiting these sites. Not only on digital platforms, but also in public media, everyone can find content that helps education. From 8 a.m. to 14.30 a.m., different broadcasts will follow thematically: from 8 to 11 a.m. for students from 5 to 8 a.m., with the title "Super" in biology, Hungarian literature, history, mathematics, arts and informatics; from 11 a.m. to 12 a.m., there will always be two English language lessons, then from 11.30 a.m. to 5 languages on Mondays, French, Wednesdays, Spanish, Fridays; from 12 a.m. to a.m. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Hungarian language and literature, mathematics, history and other subjects to continuously support home learning. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has a rejoinder. [[17.00]]
u2020-03-23-103	Thank you very much. Yes, a lot has happened. We ourselves have registered to several of these sites, as this helps to prepare the child. But what about families who live in worse conditions? I myself know a family with six children, from first to eighth grade, which is very difficult for them to solve, because there is a piece of computer, and it takes quite a lot of effort to get all the work done. My question is how, on this basis, you intend to solve the worrying problems in the areas that are falling down on this issue. So what I'm worried about is these kids having a hard time solving it. I know some people get it in the mail so they can send back the answers. Actually, the children's interest in the computer is very good luck, and they enjoy these tasks, which are so interactive. Thank you.
u2020-03-23-104	Thank you very much. Secretary of State's rejoinder.
u2020-03-23-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You know that, in recent years, many tens and hundreds of thousands of different digital devices have come into school, and most of them have obviously come to the most disadvantaged part of the country. So these digital devices were there, these, I think, can now be used to the full. The reason school principals have to go into schools every day is because, as you said, as many settlements, as many schools, as many families, as many students, as many situations. There are places where the situation really needs to be resolved by having to print out and take it out, or mail these tasks, and by collecting them back to students, there are other ways to do it. Obviously, we are in a sudden epidemic situation here, not a multi-annual preparatory phase, but a very quick decision has been made, so obviously there are many difficulties in the initial period. But the number of devices is higher than ever, we are well above the OECD average in the IT equipment supply of schools as a result of the purchase of recent years, and from Sulinet to the Smart Portal to the Electronic Library and Film Archives, many new surfaces have opened up for everyone. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, was entitled to respond to the Prime Minister's absence. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-03-23-107	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-03-23-108	With his eyes, his nodding indicates yes. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2020-03-23-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, As the title of the question shows, the question is not the need to introduce the basic income for crisis management, but when to introduce it. We know from various surveys that roughly two thirds of Hungarians have no substantial savings, they can cover their expenses for up to a month or two if their revenues disappear overnight, and now the government has acknowledged that within a few weeks, within a few months, hundreds of thousands of unemployed people have to be counted. Evaluating estimates predict up to one million new unemployed if we include those returning from abroad. So, as we have learned in the current emergency, the formula that the opposition is making proposals tells us what needs to be done, and after a few days or a few weeks of stalling and testing, the government finally gets on with it and does it. I'm pretty sure that's what's gonna happen right now. In order to call it the basic income of crisis management, or in some other way, it is actually irrelevant, the point is that every Hungarian citizen must at least make up for the Hungarian state's income for a hundred thousand forints. It is all right that the government has so far suspended credit repayments, tax executions or even announced tax and contribution reductions in many industries, but it is simply that some of the jobs will be lost, a significant part of the people's income will be lost. So the measures so far do not help anyone who has been employed, say, on a daily wage, in grey; they do not help the thousands of temporary workers who have already been fired, who can expect a minimum period of unemployment benefit; they do not help the widow retired woman who has been cleaning Airbnb apartments with a pension of 38,000, which is also a job that has ceased to exist, and I could mention it. So what does the government offer these people? When will the basic income for crisis management be introduced? Thank you for your reply.
u2020-03-23-110	Thank you, Congressman Tordai. I'll give the floor to the Minister in response.
u2020-03-23-111	Thank you very much. I believe that, as Mr President mentioned, Prime Minister has listed new points of action, a series of measures have been taken to help us get through this situation. Obviously, the government does not have to admit that the virus lasts longer than two weeks, because this will happen on its own, but rather the question of how we can find a solution that is dealing with these issues at the moment, and then in some way allows us to restart the economy faster. There are a number of solutions to this, and I will not say it again, as we have listed, which cases we have already introduced, but obviously keeping jobs is guaranteeing at some level that this Fire and Hire solution is not chosen to be fired, and then we will take it back. This is risky for everyone, as risky for the employer as for the employee, working with employers on solutions to avoid this situation. In 2008 there was a good solution to this, it was a slightly different crisis, but there were no other limits. We are also counting these matters, and we will have more proposals on this in the coming period. As far as basic income is concerned, I would protect ourselves from making structural decisions to deal with the crisis, but then it will have a long-term impact. We do not agree that basic income is a good solution, and we believe that job provision, job provision, is a good solution, and basic income takes attention away from it. So we disagree with the basic income. However, the need for the government to develop further measures in order to reduce the impact of a significant transition in the labour market, with employers participating in this, and we absolutely agree on that. We will make use of these proposals soon. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-112	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Torda has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-03-23-113	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that the government is open to such a proposal. The basic income for crisis management is precisely that it is not a real unconditional basic income, not the introduction of a completely new social institution system, but, in practice, based on the existing social benefit system, complementing it with an income replacement benefit. I'm just saying, we dialogueists call this a crisis management basic income, but you can call it something else. The point is that the economic downturn, which is certain to reach Hungary, is now 5 percent negative for the German research companies for Hungary, and this negative economic spiral should not get us very far. Because if demand disappears, not only will people starve specifically, but it will have a spill-over negative effect, through expectations the retail confidence indexes and business confidence indexes will fall completely into the bottom. So we will have to hold back very deeply from the end of the epidemic threat, so we propose to consider the introduction of some kind of income replacement, crisis management basic income. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-114	Thank you, Congressman. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Minister.
u2020-03-23-115	Thank you. We agree, so if we don't call this a basic income, and it doesn't mean that we want it later, then that's what the government is dealing with, and we're going to find solutions to that, we're going to call it a Kurzarbeit or a part-time job, or anything else, then we agree on that. There is a resistance to basic income from ministers coming from the economy that it is not a good solution because it takes a lot of incentives out of the system. So not the basic income, anyway, so that we can preserve jobs and provide support together with employers, but we agree on that. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-116	Thank you, Minister Palkovics. Dear Parliament, Sándor Hadházy, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: what is the outcome of the loan repayments regarding the economic downturn caused by the Crown Virus? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai granted the right to reply. I ask Congressman to accept the response.
u2020-03-23-117	Thanks, yeah.
u2020-03-23-118	Yeah. Then it is for Congressman Sándor Hadházy.
u2020-03-23-119	Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of the 2020s, Hungary, Europe and the whole world were faced with a major ordeal, as we have to deal with a global epidemic, which, in addition to the health threats caused by the virus, is expected to result in a large-scale decline in national economies. The economic and job-related effects of the emergency situation caused by the corona virus epidemic are being prevented by rapid measures by the Government of Hungary. As a result, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced last week that until the end of the year the capital and interest payment obligations of private individuals and businesses were suspended until 17 March 2020, as part of which short-term business loans will be extended until 30 June. [[17.10]] Of course, customers living with a moratorium may not be burdened with subsequent, re-starting payments, so the term is extended on the one hand and it is settled on the other hand depending on the type of contract. The total rate of credit for new consumer loans received from last Thursday, while the APR was maximized by an additional 5 percent of the central bank's base rate. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that, in order to reduce the expected economic downturn caused by the coronal virus epidemic, the decisions taken by the government so far can prove effective in suspending credit repayments, which are forward-looking for both individuals and businesses. In this connection, I ask: what can be expected from the loan repayments to the economic downturn caused by the Crown Virus? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-03-23-120	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary András Tállai will respond. [[Attila Gelencsér takes over his notary seat.]]
u2020-03-23-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Last year, retail lending increased by 17 percent, while corporate lending increased by 14.2 percent. It is also typical of the economy and the lives of families that they dared to retrace their loans, as they feel safe through their income. It is very important to note here that only 1 percent of these loans are foreign currency loans. We can't imagine what would happen to these families or businesses if the rate of foreign currency credit was higher. Yes, the government recognised the need to take action and decided to take a step that the Prime Minister announced last Wednesday, which, by the way, was not decided in any other country in Europe to include a moratorium on the entire private sector and on any loan from the entire business sector. This is very important, as 17 billion are loans in the banking sector, of which around 7,000 billion are loans to the general public. By allowing the moratorium not to pay until 31 December, the amount of the repayments for that period, including interest, can be estimated at HUF 2000-3000 billion. Of course, everyone will decide whether to pay or not; it is recommended that those whose income situation does not change or can continue to pay. In any case, from a spiritual and emotional point of view, this decision is a huge help for the whole of Hungary, for families, for businesses, because it gives us solace. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Even if they're in a difficult position, there's still one solution. [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-23-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Hadházy in return.
u2020-03-23-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Over the last ten years, we have been fighting in the first place to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary and create jobs. This programme has been successfully implemented, but it has taken an enormous amount of effort from both the state and businesses. It would be very good if we managed to keep these jobs. I therefore very much welcome and support all of the government's efforts of this kind, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are a lot of small and medium-sized and micro-enterprises in the Danube bend that are waiting for help, and many businesses have even called for me and asked for advice and assistance. Can we count on that? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-23-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2020-03-23-125	Thank you, Mr. President. 145 thousand businesses may be affected by this moratorium, some 380 thousand of its contracts. It includes micro-enterprises and self-sustaining enterprises, who have a lower loan repayment obligation, but which makes it very helpful and easier; this government decision may mean survival for businesses. However, this is also true for private individuals, as this applies to credit and leasing transactions created by all institutions and customers, i.e. classic housing loans, commodity loans, personal loans, project loans in companies, but also to other special loans, student loans, baby-waiting aid, lombard credit and interest-supported credit products. I think that the country has also made a unique and very remarkable decision in Europe with this help. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-23-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Harghitai, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:, What measures can the government use to protect the Hungarian economy? In response to the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai authorized the Secretary of State to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2020-03-23-127	Yeah.
u2020-03-23-128	Yeah. Mr János Harghitai has the floor.
u2020-03-23-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I wanted to ask you about the work of the economic defense action plan, and I wanted to address you. I will, but life always overrides our ideas in a crisis like this, where the country is now. Obviously, one consults with mayors, doctors, including the head of Mohács Hospital, and is interested in the supply of equipment. Talking to them, I know it's not an ideal situation. This has never been said, but it is also welcome that we have now been able to obtain tools from the East, China. I think we can agree with Prime Minister's reasoning today, in which it meant the delivery of these tools to the workers in the most vulnerable jobs in health care. I think that this is the most important way of dealing with this crisis. At the same time, I also hope that we will, of course, overcome these pressing problems, and that is why it is very important what the government can do, what directions it aims at in relation to the future functioning of the Hungarian economy. It is good that the Hungarian economy has been able to grow by up to 5 percent in recent years. When we planned the current budget, we weren't preparing for this situation. This emergency, which was created in connection with the attack on the corona virus, clearly implies a rethink of all our economic policy efforts. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what is the direction of the government's thinking on economic policy issues. What movement do you see in this year's budget to finance this difficult situation, and what direction will the government take in next year's budget? Thank you.
u2020-03-23-130	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary András Tállai will respond.
u2020-03-23-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, At today's parliamentary session, there has been a lot of talk about what kind of economic help families can have, especially, but you specifically asked about the economy and businesses. I think that, as I said, it is unique in Europe that a government has been able to make two sets of decisions in one week in order to save Hungarian businesses, to help those who already seem to be in a very difficult situation, because unfortunately, the consequences of the coronal virus are not yet seen from an economic point of view, what effect this will actually have on the country, the Hungarian economy. What the government has done so far with these two decisions is that, on the one hand, it gives a moratorium on taxation to sectors, businesses who are already in apparent trouble, including tourism, catering, services, cultural services and other services, the essence of which is that there is no need to pay social contribution tax, Hungarian contributions. This represents about 300,000 employees of 15,000 enterprises. But it is not necessary for 81,000 small businesses to pay the so-called kata tax as it stands, as they are probably too, because they are small and generally self-sustaining, they are in a very difficult situation, they can already be perceived, and that is why the government has decided to do so. [[17.20]] But the series of aids and packages will continue, which I think will be another help for the small business sector.
u2020-03-23-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2020-03-23-133	Mr Secretary, you are one of the Members who have been participating in the current budget debate for 20 years. I remind all of us that we have often received many criticisms because in recent years we have created huge budget reserves for what to do in difficult situations. Obviously, this has been authorised by the government in the implementation of the budget. Here life proves how justified that was, and even if we could have created more reserves, that would not have been enough. But these economic policy measures, which the government has just taken, are practically being abandoned by the government, can be done because we have managed rationally, not as the previous governments have done. I think that this should continue to be the case, and then we will create the conditions for further economic policy measures. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-134	Thank you, Congressman. Secretary of State's rejoinder.
u2020-03-23-135	In addition to the tax moratorium mentioned, the government intends to provide other assistance, thus suspending tax executions, so businesses who have already had tax debts should not have to pay their tax debt temporarily. This also applies to dictionaries, and their tax debt generated before 1 March will also be deferred. It is very important that it also applies to businesses, small businesses and large enterprises, which has already been mentioned, which is very helpful to the business sector, and will also help with the liquidity package of the Hungarian National Bank, which will provide an additional opportunity for the Hungarian economy and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to survive this difficult period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm looking for a betterman, Tamás Csányi. [[Tamás Csányi stands up.]] Got it. You want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: But about what?]] The answer will be answered by Bence Rétvári due to the Minister's absence. Do you accept your identity? [[For signal:]] Yeah. Mr Tamás Csányi has the floor.
u2020-03-23-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, First of all, we have had enough of the government's frivolousness to demand the immediate introduction of mandatory home quarantine, because you must finally acknowledge that tomorrow's victims will be infected yesterday and today. On 13 March, the Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, at the end of a series of political maneuvers embarrassing the wind cock, made the decision that we had demanded days earlier that Hungarian primary and secondary schools close their doors, as this is a very important, internationally used instrument for the control and slowing down of the coronal virus epidemic. Unfortunately, the decision will be made by Viktor Orbán, too! As a result of his attitude, it took place on Friday night, so the Prime Minister put schools and directors in a very difficult position. This is not the characteristic of a responsible Prime Minister. The weekend was thus filled with net brainstorming at the heads of the institutions and the maintenance staff, how the digital working order, which everyone wanted but which the government had not worked out, outside the classroom, will be implemented in practice. I would just like to ask you in parentheses: do you not have a government commissioner responsible for digital content development, who is here to help the educator society in such situations? Did you do it? On Monday, the faculty, the maintenance staff, the head of institutions gathered in the country, trying to figure out how to resolve this situation. The following government tools have been of great help to you: Google Classroom, Messenger, Skype, and I'm sure you could name it. On 17 March a 42-minute workshop on the possibilities of online learning within the system was published on the YouTube channel of a certain Crete system, which you are obliged to prescribe. But let's face it, though, we would expect much more from a software-enlarged system for 700 million and then 3.5 billion forints. One thing is certain: a new order, a world that never existed, came into education, and you abandoned the profession, released the hands of teachers who were already struggling with many problems. So the question is: what do you want to do to help teachers work? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-23-138	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-03-23-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have started, honourable Member, by saying that it is important to make rapid decisions during a virus epidemic. Then why wasn't it voted an hour and a half ago that we could decide more quickly that the government would be authorized? They didn't even vote to make a decision faster. I'm not asking why you don't support the proposal, but why you don't support it so that we can decide tomorrow and don't have to decide next week. You said speed mattered, and you voted against speed an hour and a half ago. How is that possible? Second, he says that a government needs to move fast. The Hungarian government decided on the closing of the school, i.e. the closing of the school as an educational venue, on the 12th day after the first registered case. Austria decided on the 21st day, Italy decided on the 34th day, Sweden only decided on the 47th day towards the universities; so on the 12th day, they decided on the 21st, 34th and 47th day. I think in order to prevent children from getting sick and children from getting sick, or to protect teachers from being caught by the infection, the virus epidemic, I think that we have taken action quite quickly compared to other countries that are richer than us, Austria, Italy or Sweden. I also think that we must acknowledge that the teachers really tried very quickly to change to this very sudden situation, because no one knew months ago that we would first try digital instruction in a virus epidemic like this in real life. On average, between 10 and 50,000 visitors visit the pages of Suline, the Bookcatalog and the Smart Portal, the National Public Education Portal every day. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , precisely to download these content. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give you a return answer.
u2020-03-23-141	Thank you very much for the floor, although you've been avoiding one of my questions, but I don't want yours. We support you in the decisions necessary for the health of Hungarian people, and beyond that, we are unable to support the government, especially when it comes to overpowering. I was happy to hear about the measures, but I didn't hear from you what was added as a government. I would like to congratulate the pedagogical society, who have passed an A in the last week, and have solved this difficult situation with practically handicrafts and countless unique ways, it was not up to you. On behalf of the pedagogical society and students, please do everything you can to ensure that this academic year is valid, that the 12th students can graduate and help with their work. I urge you to consider the immediate introduction of the mandatory home quarantine facility. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-23-142	Thank you very much. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2020-03-23-143	Thank you for your suggestions. All proposals will be considered by the operational tribe and the government. However, you did not tell the truth, honourable Member, you said that you would support the proposals that give power to the government in the field of health, and that the bill of which you have refused to negotiate quickly clearly stated that the government could exercise these powers in order to prevent, manage, eradicate and prevent or eliminate the harmful effects of the human epidemic. Only and only in relation to the possible decision on the virus, health conservation and its economic impact, there is any choice here, nothing more. So you said that you were going to vote for health protection, that's exactly what it was about, nothing else, nothing else. Where did the teachers come from, you asked, honourable Member. As I mentioned, in recent years, these contents have been added to the National Public Education Portal, free of charge for everyone. The difference was that others were asking for money for everything everywhere, and this has been charged free of charge in recent years, and Crete can be used for almost all families. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And it is especially good that new archives have been opened, the Archives of MTVA and others, from which also download content to help you learn. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-144	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How do you protect the population from the coronal virus?" It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, László Palkovics authorised the Minister for Innovation and Technology to respond. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[17 .30]]
u2020-03-23-145	I do not mean it as a personal insult, but I would rather ask the Prime Minister, so I do not accept the Minister.
u2020-03-23-146	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the immediate question to the Prime Minister is due to a deviation from the house rules... [[For signal:]] Then you'll be deemed revoked. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How do you intend to act against the tax collectors of human misery? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister László Palkovics has given the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-03-23-147	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-03-23-148	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-23-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that there is nothing more important than human life and human health, and that is why we must state that the parliamentary representatives of the Hungarian Movement have today given their vote in favour of the protection of the health and life of Hungarian people, not the possible abuse of power. And that is an inexorable and enormous responsibility of the governing parties to act properly, wisely and in proportion to this mandate. Allow me to make one more comment, ladies and gentlemen: I believe that one measure of political competence is that we are able to choose the place and time of party political battles correctly. Our Homeland Movement believes that there is no place for party political battles here, there is no right time and very little time. At the same time, we also need to see that the epidemic, the coronal virus, is not only attacking people's traditional immune system, but also the public's economic and financial immune system, and the problem is compounded by the fact that where there is a problem, there immediately appear those vultures and hyenas who are trying to gain unfairly extra benefit. Therefore, it is necessary to consider what Mi Hazank Movement asks and expects the government to set official prices for basic foods produced, produced and produced in Hungary or Hungary, the most important anti-pyretic and anti-inflammatory medicines, disinfectants, and to fix official prices. For what is untenable, honourable Members, is that for a liter of bleach, for a pound of chicken breasts, 2800 forints, for a kilogram of potatoes, up to 600 forints are required in Hungarian shops today, and there is only one possible method to do so: the introduction of official prices with immediate effect. Are you willing to do this, Minister? I ask for a straight and clear answer.
u2020-03-23-150	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister László Palkovics.
u2020-03-23-151	Thank you very much, Congressman, and thank you for your support. I think we can assure you that Fidesz would have made use of this opportunity and not abused it, but we will see that another time, but thank you for your wisdom. What is important in this case: yes, we do, and I think so too, since the Ministry is responsible for consumer protection and also for trade policy, that when the impact of the coronal virus in Hungary began, the Consumer Protection Authority will continue to monitor virtually all areas. I think we all remember when the market in Budapest in Lehel and Fővám Square suddenly went up the price of chicken meat, different cases appeared on the Internet, and after the inspection they returned to their normal level. So we keep doing these things, and they're going to be more extensive on the internet now, because going to the store is going to drop a little bit, but online shopping is going to increase, so we're going to keep following it there. In any case, where we see such a sign, we will definitely act. As far as your proposal is concerned, it is a question of the official price, and it seems to be a good idea for the first time, and that's what I came to realize, then, is that we are going to make certain products public priced. We have looked at the range of products needed to meet the basic needs, including food, various cleaning equipment and others, but when we analyzed this, we have seen the problem that if we fix the price at an official price at a level that is not certain, because at this moment there is not a supply market, but a demand market to achieve the right effect. So typically a mouth mask is such a question that we can fix the price, only until there are about 200 million mouth masks in the country, we will not be able to introduce an official price. We will therefore consider other options, which should have the same effect in principle. I would like to give you an example: we did not set an official price for the bank loan at the interest rate, but said that the base rate plus an appropriate amount, there is 5 per cent, this could be the maximum expected profit. So we're thinking about these solutions. By the way, we agree that something must be done with this, only the proper analysis of the market is necessary. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-152	I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2020-03-23-153	Dear Minister, There are further problems with implementation, as the range of government provisions on movable and real estate auctions is not sufficient, taking into account the direct bans on wages and the various incasswords. After all, we are in a situation where people, workers, businesses have been reduced in revenue, or their expenditures have disappeared directly, or they only have expenditure. This is why the MiHazák Movement proposes the suspension of enforcement procedures, enforcement procedures against entrepreneurs and individuals, of the above-mentioned enforcement acts by 31 December 2020 in order to ensure that fully bled and insecure workers and businesses do not suffer enormous extra costs as a result of the excesses of their executives. This can only be resolved by government means. I ask the honourable Minister if he agrees with these points.
u2020-03-23-154	Thank you, Congressman. The Minister is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2020-03-23-155	We have already taken a series of measures in this category, and we need to look at this and see what can be done with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-156	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Everything is all right in relation to the protection against the coronal virus?" It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister László Palkovics has given the right to reply. I ask Congressman Korózs if he will accept...
u2020-03-23-157	Yeah.
u2020-03-23-158	He'll take it. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2020-03-23-159	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Mr. Secretary. I've repeatedly said there's no need to panic, but there is concern. Worrying about it, and I myself began to worry about it when some government officials compared the coronal virus epidemic to a simple flu epidemic, and secondly, I began to worry about the scientific publication in which Chinese and American mathematicians modeled the spread of the virus. I would like to remind you that in January, mathematical models showed that the number of infected people is doubling every seven days, today in Europe about four days when the number of infected people is doubled. The third thing I was worried about is that the Prime Minister said that from tomorrow onwards, those in the front line who work in intensive departments will receive personal protective equipment. So every speech I've had in the last few weeks was appropriate because there were no protective equipment out there in hospitals and crisis centers. I think that the fight against the epidemic is only possible if we can define it, this is one thing and the other when we break the chain of further contamination. I think the experts have said that several times. From now on, we need tests, tests, and tests to determine this. The South Koreans have shown us: identification, testing and tracking. As a result, I ask the Minister first: why doesn't every health worker get protective equipment? Second of all, why don't you give us spatial data, age and gender? And third of all, why don't you do more tests? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2020-03-23-160	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Minister.
u2020-03-23-161	Thank you very much. The Member is asking questions that the whole world is dealing with, because there are several solutions, and there are many ways to deal with such an epidemic. If we look at European countries, there is a European country that has chosen to have a very rapid viral rundown, which means that otherwise the population will become infected and then the virus will stop itself. [[17.40]] If this is about 60-70 percent, the virus will no longer spread, so the reproductive index will fall below 1, and it will disappear. As a result, this was in England, and this is what Sweden is doing now, that neither country has tested me. In England, this caused serious social opposition, which also meant that people were above the health system's ability to provide, and this meant that they could not handle it. This is not the path that Hungary and a large part of the European countries have chosen, but rather the path that we have chosen, with operational measures which unfortunately do not yet include either the vaccine or the medicine, because they do not exist at this moment, we are trying to shift the effect of the virus, flatten it, until otherwise the spread reaches a level that is likely to come back. And then we want to keep this level under the power and capacity of the health care system. We have chosen this, we are following this path, and it seems to be working for the time being. Obviously, there are a number of things that are uncertain about this issue. We don't know exactly what the seasonal effect of the virus is, so if the heat comes, then the virus infection will decrease. That's usually the way it is with flu viruses, and I'm not sure that's how he's gonna behave. We don't know how the virus mutates, we don't know a lot of things, so it can complicate them, but this defense seems right at the moment. There are conditions to this. One condition is that we know what's happening. He mentioned American Chinese mathematicians. The Hungarian mathematicians are at least as good at this, or enough to work with, say, Mr Barabási, mathematicians of the University of Szeged, who, as I said, could absolutely predict the Ebola, the H1N1 virus with their excellent model. That's what's happening here. These models are used to ensure that all things that can be measured, even the ability of the health system [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's what we're gonna do. So I think there's so much to worry about right now. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-23-162	Thank you, Minister. I'll give you a return answer.
u2020-03-23-163	Thank you very much, Minister. You didn't respond to why all health workers were not given protective equipment. Obviously, there's not enough protective equipment. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: That's right!]] Now the Prime Minister has said that there are some 2500-2600 respirators. A few weeks ago, the chief of staff said there were only 1,600. Later, of course, they cut the number 2000 here, but I don't know who bought that 400 overnight and who won the 600 for the year 2000. Because if one of these breathing devices had been acquired in addition here, I think it would have been brought here on a white horse to Kossuth Square, or through Kossuth Square to Parliament, with a big cute spread. So, I'm sorry, Minister, I have doubts that you have enough breathing equipment. I have doubts that there are enough tests. I have doubts that there is sufficient personal equipment for health workers and social workers. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-164	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Minister in return.
u2020-03-23-165	Thank you very much. That's why it's not a good thing if we suddenly respond, we're suddenly asking questions about different cases, and we're not asking questions clearly. When we talk about the treatment of the effects of the coronal virus, we talk about a fundamentally invasive device, that is, the device that, after intubation, can act properly by moving the lungs. So that's what we talked about. There are 2560 of these devices in Hungary at the moment. The fact that we bring him in on a white horse: we like to bring him in on a plane from China, which is also happening right now. China is far away, they don't make it in Europe, but that's what happens. There's a plane coming in this morning. There's 67 tons of aircraft carrying this type of protective equipment coming in tomorrow morning. It's in the air. They bring those devices instead of white horses, whether it is a mask, protective clothing, goggles, protective helmet, or whether it is such equipment. What you asked me was that the Prime Minister was just saying that the doctor working in an intensive bed [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and caregivers are required to do so. That's how it's been before, and now we've recorded it once to make it so. [[The president's ringing again.]] We will also provide the others with the necessary level of protection. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-23-166	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:, We must protect jobs and small and medium-sized enterprises. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given him the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-03-23-167	Yeah, I'd love to. Thank you.
u2020-03-23-168	Then I'd be happy to give the floor to Laszlo Varju. [[Defiance.]]
u2020-03-23-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We have now come to the point that, due to government delays, not only the spread of infection, but also the economic crisis is spreading, and, by the way, we are moving towards a livelihood crisis. Looks like this is getting out of hand with the government. When it comes to doing the most, you always do too little and late, and in such a situation, it only adds up to trouble. A week ago, the Democratic Coalition asked for a number of very important things for businesses. I stress that a week ago, we asked for the following, when no one had ever been fired from their job. It should have been prohibited during the epidemic to release people from closed economic sectors or even more widely. In order to do this, an extraordinary job protection fund should have been set up to cover the costs of job protection for businesses. As a result, for example, we also see a job where the private kindergarten, which employs children with special education, is forced to close. For a week now, we demand that not only the time limits for VAT and for VAT payments are prolonged in the first round, not only for taxi drivers, but also more widely. No small Hungarian company in danger is missing the government in the worst trouble, without any company income, even demanding taxes. Plus, they're sending in labour inspectors. They were supposed to do this a week ago to protect all jobs, but you said no to that. They said no to protecting jobs; they said no to protecting Hungarian businesses; they said no to good governance and crisis management. I only have one question: why? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-03-23-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai.
u2020-03-23-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I see you've come into Parliament with a written speech and you haven't noticed what's going on today. In fact, his speech may have been written last week on Monday, because the Prime Minister announced the first package of economic measures on Wednesday, and today announced the second package of economic measures. To say that it is late: I am just telling you, for example, that in Germany, which has been observed as a model, for example, today the government is discussing the economic package for the whole country for the first time, and we are already at the point of announcing the second. Moreover, the European Union also took measures a few days ago to ensure that the rules and regulations on budget deficits do not apply to Member States. I would not like to repeat in detail what measures have been taken. In conclusion, there were two types of measures taken by companies. One, which covers all businesses, is the credit-refund moratorium, which applies not only to credit but also to all financial institutions' obligations. This applies to all businesses and also to the suspension of tax implementation announced today, which is also a very serious measure. The other package, also announced by the Prime Minister on two occasions, concerns sectors where problems are already visible and experienced. It is known that in tourism, catering and these services, there is no need to pay a social contribution tax, there is no need to pay a tax called kata for small businesses and no need to pay a tourist contribution, so it will be a so-called tax moratorium, but this applies only to those 15,000 small enterprises and the 300 thousand employees concerned for the time being. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-23-172	Thank you very much. Congressman has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-03-23-173	Thank you very much. Whose speech they wrote, we'll figure out how to check it out. Dear Secretary of State, Today you have performed a great co-production of what the government has done. Compared to this, four contributions from the Prime Minister and two fellow Members have shown that, in relation to the population and businesses, they believe that they will be able to pay them back up to HUF 3000 billion, and even the loan repayment will not have to be returned. I'm just asking quietly, and what does the government do? Because the fact that you're making people pay for this or giving other people the opportunity not to have this kind of income for the banks, I understand that you're willing to do this for charity. [[17.50]] I continue to ask when you will finally decide on establishing a OSH fund to avoid the impossible situation for small businesses so that as little jobs as possible are lost. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-174	Thank you very much. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Secretary of State, Deputy Minister.
u2020-03-23-175	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, If I were you, I wouldn't make too much noise, because when you tried to handle a crisis during your government, the Prime Minister of Ferenc Gyurcsány, you were sent away in 2010. You left 600,000 unemployed to the Fidesz-KDNP government, more than 12 percent unemployment, and GDP, let us not say where it was, what it was under its ass, and a country in ruins. I believe that Hungary's economy is strong and that the Hungarian government is strong. The Hungarian government now knows what to do, then it didn't know. You, if you like, have no political basis to take account of the actions of the current government, because yes, this government will prove that it will also be able to handle this crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. László Varju: When will they start?]]
u2020-03-23-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Péter Ungár, the representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Tállai has given Mr András Tállai the right to reply because of his absence. I ask Congressman Péter Ungár to accept the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Péter Ungár:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2020-03-23-177	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that the situation that the crisis caused by the corona virus represents, as appropriate, completely drastic changes in terms of the budget. This situation means that many things and now let us not go into the debate on how good or bad things that the government has made up as a major investment in recent years must be postponed or stopped in order to be some source of the partly economic protection plans that you have already announced and, in part, about those which, hopefully, will continue to be announced. Furthermore, the structure of the Hungarian economy is also explained by the impact that the crisis in other countries will have on us in this crisis. We know how much Hungary's economy depends on the performance of the German automotive industry, depending on the German economy as a whole. The latest prognosis of the German budgetary institute was that up to 5% of GDP could be reduced by the Crown Virus crisis. I would ask the Secretary of State how much more investment will be stopped or delayed because this force majeure event has taken place or how much they think that the Hungarian economy can become more resilient, making it a little less dependent on the other countries so that the economic crisis in other countries does not have a particularly great impact on Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-178	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Tallai.
u2020-03-23-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Your question is about stopping prestige investments and the need to devote the resources saved to the development of the economy. I'll tell you the truth, I consider this politics, not cooperation and help. We are in a crisis, say you, and the fight against the virus certainly shows that it will have very serious economic implications, but it does not name any prestige investment. What I can assure you, however, is that the restructuring of the budget, the diversion of the budget, is underway, the work has begun. It began with the financial task force created by the Prime Minister under the leadership of Mihály Varga. This will apply to the exploration of the reserves and other resources of the 2020 budget, as well as the financial guarantee of the fight against the virus, as well as to the management of the economic crisis that will be needed, the re-launching of the economy, and this also applies to the 2021 budget, which is still under design. I think you should not be afraid that this government will not be able to deal with the financial and budgetary issues, because this is what the last ten years have been about, especially the first few years: the removal from foreign currency credit, the solution to the reduction of debts, the start-up of the economy, the elimination of unemployment. I believe that the Government, the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance will find in the budget the resources needed to deal with the economic crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Péter Ungár's reply will follow.
u2020-03-23-181	Thank you for the floor. I didn't think you'd set that expectation in my direction, but I can say such investments. I'm sure you won't be shocked if I tell you that LMP's position is Paks II. Expansion is not the right way to spend money. I suppose that's how many rumbles Mr. Secretary of State has already conducted with Members of the LMP that this in itself doesn't mean novum. However, you did not answer the question, Mr Secretary of State, that in order to have unbroken confidence in the government on economic matters, what will the government do to protect the capacity to create internal capital as much as possible. Big business investments were planned to be supported by the government in the budget by around 15 billion, which is what the Ministry of Finance talked about. In our opinion, this 15 billion would simply be in a better place in Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, who suffer this crisis in the first place and the most. I would ask you to answer this part of the question. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-182	Thank you very much. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2020-03-23-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that, if ever Paks was needed, these developments should give thought to supporting this investment, because the country's energy security requires that the investment in Paks can be made. If I may, I would not yet like to talk about what the government will decide, but about what decisions it has made in basically in four days, in five days to save the Hungarian economy, to save the Hungarian families, to save the Hungarian businesses. I believe that in Europe, too, there is an unprecedented series of decisions that the Prime Minister has announced about a tax moratorium, a moratorium on credit repayment, and the help of families. I think that it can be exemplary for any European country that has happened in Hungary in recent days.
u2020-03-23-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. Because of his absence, Minister Tibor Pogácsás has given him the right to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[By car-Cake Olivio:]] It says yes. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2020-03-23-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This issue has been raised several times today, and we still do not understand why the regional breakdown of coronal viral infections is not being communicated. Trust is high in times of crisis, and the basis for trust is that people have the right information, be properly informed, so that there will be less false news and fewer panicking. Hungary is the only EU country that does not provide data on the regional distribution of diseases at regional level. Officer Muller Cecília justified this decision by violating the privacy of patients on the one hand and making people easy because where there is no infection, they would go there. The fact is that the Data Protection Authority has issued a resolution in which it states that there is no violation of any right of personality by the territorial or age breakdown of the infected, and that the identity of the patients is not known. [[18.00]] Another regrettable development is that we are no longer dealing with individual diseases, and we have moved to a period of group illness. Unfortunately, every county in the country is infected with diseases, so it probably wouldn't cause any frivolousness, or even more disciplined undersecretaries of state... people would be disciplined. Dear Secretary of State, Little information can easily lead to rumors, this has happened in the days, and in some cities it is common that there are so many and so many infected, this can be prevented by this measure. So I'm asking you, what's the reason why you can't communicate territorial data in this breakdown? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-186	Thank you. I give the floor to a disciplined Secretary of State, Tibor Pogácsás.
u2020-03-23-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The spread of the coronal virus can be divided into three stages, which has been said a lot in recent times: individual diseases, group diseases, and this can be followed by a series of mass diseases. The Hungarian government took the first step in Europe, created an operational tribe that controls the control of the coronal virus, and it is the operational tribe that basically determines what information and what communications it publishes. It's clear that there's a lot of news, rumors, bad news, false news going around different channels, the media, the Internet. Clearly, the goal is to keep these things from being born. The spread of the coronal virus is now nationwide, but it was clear that it was considered necessary to prevent large numbers of people from flowing to areas that are assumed to have not been detected there, as they may become the vector of the infection. The recent situation in the Balaton district is a good example of this and a good indication of the concern that this has caused for the people living there. We therefore ignore the communication of territorial distribution, but all information necessary for people to be informed will be made public at any press conference following the meeting of the operational tribe, or we will provide the necessary information on all channels, such as the sex, age of patients, and there is also a reference to the related or existing diseases that have caused their death. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-03-23-189	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. The Balaton example was wrong, because at that time people did not know where, in which county the number of infected people were, yet they went to other counties, went away, and did not behave responsibly, so I think it would be very good if this data were made public. We ask people to be conscious, asking them to be informed, asking them to be disciplined, so be responsible. This can be expected if we look at them as adults and give them the right information. As the Chief of Staff mentioned several times, as you mentioned, the disease has unfortunately appeared in all counties, so it would be worth publishing these data at least in county. Please consider helping people to be informed. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-190	Thank you, Congressman. You have a chance to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2020-03-23-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There is no chance of stopping or stopping the epidemic quickly, and we know that the only way to stop the epidemic is to stop it from being used safely and to prevent the overload of health care. I think and believe that, in order to control the spread of the epidemic, the government's measures use all the means and are sufficient, we do not consider it appropriate at the moment to disclose diseases with territorial breakdown. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What further measures are to be taken to help the economic sectors that are in trouble as a result of the economic downturn? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given him the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-03-23-193	Yeah.
u2020-03-23-194	It says yes. Congressman Attila Barcza has the floor.
u2020-03-23-195	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The corona virus epidemic has now grown into a global epidemic. The first and most important thing remains the protection of human life, for which the Government of Hungary, as it has already done, gives all the assistance to the operational tribe. Unfortunately, it can also be seen that both the Hungarian and the world economy are under enormous pressure from this epidemic, and therefore two of the action groups created as a result of the coronal virus, the task force responsible for re-launching the economy and the Finance Action Group, led by Minister Mihály Varga, are working to assess the damage caused by the economic downturn and develop plans as soon as possible in order to safeguard the economy. Specific measures have already been taken, as the government has suspended all private individuals and businesses' capital and interest on loans concluded by 17 March of this year, including baby shower loans and student loans, until the end of this year. It is an important step forward that, in sectors with serious problems and in these sectors, Sopron and the constituency are also particularly affected, such as tourism, catering, entertainment, sport, culture and services, as well as passenger transport, employers' contributions will be fully released until 30 June, and workers' contributions will be significantly reduced now and we have heard a number of measures announced today, which are very important for small businesses as well. Dear Secretary of State, As is well known, the European Commission is also planning an investment incentive measure, as part of which an advance of around EUR 8 billion not used in cohesion policy last year should not be repaid to the Member States, as well as the separation of a financial fund of EUR 37 billion. In this context, I am asking what further measures are expected as a result of the economic downturn in difficulty. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] to help economic sectors. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-03-23-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2020-03-23-197	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the European Union is making efforts to help Member States. The most important decision is perhaps to suspend strict rules on the general government deficit, which, although not specifically linked to its question, is a meaningful decision, I think, for the European Union, which can be a real help because the European Union has seen that the required budget deficit, the 3%s will not be able to be held by the countries in question, if they provide meaningful, real help to those who are disadvantaged in the economy, who now have to deal with income losses, difficulties and redundancies. The European Union offers a number of opportunities, including what you mentioned earlier, but that amount of EUR 37 billion at EU level does not represent additional resources for our country, since the Commission's initiative consists of non-refundable advances and potentially associated EU funds, the former EUR 8 and the latter EUR 29 billion. Unfortunately, none of this amount is a real help to our country, since the latter amount would be a real help if EU funds were not fully tied down. After Hungary has committed all of its available EU resources, unfortunately it will not mean real help or additional resources in any way to help overcome the economic crisis. So we stay on our own, we stay on our country's budget. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And that's how we're gonna be able to deal with this problem. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Barcza has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-03-23-199	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. If we look back over the past decade, then we can see that the Hungarian economy has come a long way, I do not wish, nor can we list these results in such a short period of time, but all this economic growth, as it is in Western Europe, or we can almost say that in most countries in the world, it is facing strong challenges in a few weeks. [[18.10]] I thank the government for its actions so far, and I ask the task force to examine those other areas, those sectors in the Hungarian economy, where there are also problems and difficulties so that those Hungarian companies and businesses can be helped by the government. It is of particular importance in this regard, as he said in his reply that the EU option does not provide additional resources, so we can rely on the results and resources of the Hungarian economy so far. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-200	Thank you, Congressman Barcza. Secretary of State's rejoinder?
u2020-03-23-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, let us speak of positive things rather than of what is truly helpful than this EU proposal, it does not mean for our country. In any case, it is positive that the country's economy is strong, the country, the economy, businesses have no foreign currency exposure, and the Hungarian economy no longer has structural problems. I think that together with the government, workers and employers will find a way to reduce unemployment in Hungary, and we will also find the tap where we can restart the economy and give people jobs again. There is certainly hope for this in a study that Hungary will best survive the economic crisis in Central Europe, including Poland, the Czech Republic and Romania. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-202	Thank you very much. Mr. Note says you're here, but I don't see Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I'm here!]] I do now. The representative of Jobbik wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What does Madam Minister think about this? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Pál Völner granted the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-03-23-203	Yeah.
u2020-03-23-204	Yeah. Then Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea should take the floor.
u2020-03-23-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today, our Prime Minister said we need to join forces today. There's one small problem, and he always thinks that the collaboration that Fidesz is saying is something that someone else is entitled to accept. Article 53 of the Fundamental Law clearly states that, in the event of an emergency, the Government's decree will remain in force for 15 days, unless the Government, under the authority of the Parliament, extends the scope of the decree. Now the Minister of Justice wants the House to extend the existing government decrees, a law which has been tabled instead of a parliamentary resolution, as provided for by the Fundamental Law. According to Article 54 (2) of the Fundamental Law, the application of the Fundamental Law in the special legal order cannot be suspended. The proposal proposed would in practice suspend the application of the Fundamental Law by the Minister of Justice. Both you and the Minister of Justice know, Mr Secretary of State, that every 15 days the government can declare the emergency situation again, because this is not prohibited by the Fundamental Law. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State: is it not a question of exploiting this pandemic and its difficulties in order to remove the role of the parliamentary opposition? Is it not, Mr Secretary of State, that you wish to put the opposition at a constitutional disadvantage in such a way that it is perceived by society that we are preventing decisions from being taken? I'm telling you, the Fidesz graphics are out on Facebook, and they're telling us that we've prevented the emergency from being extended. Secretary of State, if you're going to bring anything up against the Constitution, why does an opposition have to accept it? Why are they lying to society? I want an answer to that. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-206	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2020-03-23-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let us be clear at the outset that the epidemic threat was not caused by the government, so we have not caused any situation that has affected the current legislative process. The situation brought with it an emergency, which was announced by the government. The government has taken the necessary measures, has made the regulations, and if we follow your line of thought, it is just an opening to Parliament to bring this issue forward, which would bring it forward with 15 days of patchwork, when it is clear from the example of other countries that we need to think long weeks, months and even an annual perspective on how to resolve this situation. It can also be seen that, despite the fact that we are talking about such a long process, very urgent and operational measures are needed at the beginning. We have just asked the Parliament to cooperate with the opposition in order to deviate from the house rules by a four-fifth rule, so that you can become involved in this process and express the kind of attitude that they often say that people's lives are important to you, that the life of the Hungarian population is important to you, that the protection of jobs is important to you, that the protection of debtors is important to you, too. And when it is necessary to vote on such a small technical detail that Parliament can decide on this tomorrow, or now, following a different procedure, a week later, you have stood there not to give your name, give your support, and do not contribute to bringing this decision to Parliament as urgently as possible, where you would then have the right to vote, you would also have the right not to support it, to stay away. You are completely excluded from the fact that this situation is legally and legally settled. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has the right to a rejoinder.
u2020-03-23-209	Mr Secretary of State has not answered my question, and I will read it to you again, because, therefore, as Secretary of State, as a lawyer, you still do not interpret Article 53 of the Fundamental Law. The emergency may be extended for an unlimited period of time under the authority of the Parliament, but that is not what you are asking in the proposal submitted. That's not what they're asking for. They're writing a new law. A parliamentary decision could have been made on this. And, by the way, shame on the government's submission of this proposal in the last moments, which is why it uses the four-fifth claim to discredit the opposition, even though if it is submitted in time, we will discuss it in time, not the law that you have tabled here, but the parliamentary resolution. What I don't understand, Mr. Secretary, is why you're not telling society the truth. Why don't you admit that you're not following the provisions of the Fundamental Law that you've created, but that you're completely failing to do so, creating a new legal situation to try to discredit the opposition in front of society. You know damn well he's not telling the truth!
u2020-03-23-210	Thank you. Mr Pál Völner's rejoined reply.
u2020-03-23-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, here is the second part of my speech. No one has violated the Fundamental Law, no one will violate the Fundamental Law, the Government has submitted this bill to Parliament in accordance with the Fundamental Law. How you got here? You know as well as I do that last week there were seven pro-coordination sessions. If we hadn't had the negotiations, but presented this proposal immediately, then you would have had a problem with why the negotiations were delayed. Now, to claim that the consultations caused the delayed administration was too late, this is, to say the least, not elegant in this situation. Once again, the kind of solution is for Parliament to read the bill. You will be kept informed, if you can meet, at the plenary session, if not, by the President and the political groups, and Parliament will be able to meet at any time, and you will be able to terminate this kind of provision that gave the government this power if you cannot interpret it, and I cannot help it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. Security, predictability, calmness. Will there be a timetable for the measures? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, granted the right to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-03-23-213	Yeah.
u2020-03-23-214	Yeah. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2020-03-23-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The epidemiological emergency obviously has economic implications and negative economic effects. In two weeks, if you will, the world has turned around with us. [[18.20]] We first heard from Minister Mihály Varga that this year's performance is from minus 0.3 per cent to 2.9 per cent plus, and now analysts have even worse predictions. What you can see is that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, which are in the middle of the Hungarian economy, are now in great danger, not to mention those who work there. Small and medium-sized companies have faced the fact that either they do not have a customer, or they do not have a raw material, or they may have problems with both, and so unfortunately a lot of people have announced so far, and we are afraid that more people will announce that they cannot keep their workforce. However, we think that it is possible to start over with those who remain, and we will therefore propose that the government consider that there should be a wage guarantee fund. Let there be a wage guarantee fund for which we see international examples. We see this in Italy, France, the British introduced it just this week, where people can receive their income, retain their jobs, and the Hungarian economy can preserve small and medium-sized enterprises that will be very important when the economy needs to be restarted. But the other is that people have already lost their jobs. Small and medium-sized enterprises have already decommissioned, people have lost their jobs. Here I ask the government if it is planning, and if so, when it will increase the job search support from three to nine months. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-03-23-216	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-03-23-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, You can't get rid of your old thoughts. I think you're making cuts. We know there's a problem, and we know they're gonna be unemployed, but believe me, the statistics, the daily data, don't prove it. However, you do not mention government measures on the basis of the Wednesday and today's two economic packages, which affect virtually all Hungarian families, and concern all Hungarian businesses in such a way that they are given the opportunity, because there may be an undertaking that does not have to pay temporarily the repayment of capital and interest, it can keep people and will not be unemployed. You cannot accept that the current government, the Fidesz government, under the leadership of Viktor Orbán, thinks that it is not the unemployed that should be supported, but that workers and employers should be encouraged by government decisions, tools, resources and support to ensure that there is no loss of work, a temporary, difficult period, such as part-time work, but that there should be no separation from the company and no unemployment and no need for the wage guarantee fund you are talking about. For me, the wage guarantee fund means that those who are already unemployed will receive some kind of supplement or support from it. I think that it is essential to support employers in keeping their employees in a difficult, critical period. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-218	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It's a matter of speaking to Congressman Cook.
u2020-03-23-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I have set the example of the British, Italian and French, which was exactly what the Secretary of State was talking about. For example, the British pay up to £2,500, the British government pays 80 percent of its salary to those who would otherwise lose their jobs now in order not to lose their jobs in order to maintain this business and to be able to restart the economy. We're talking about the exact same thing, but you call it something else, and for some reason, you call it austerity. The important thing is to be calm, safe and predictable. If you see an appropriate timetable for doing so, businesses like workers and families, then I think we are doing a lot to make peace in these times of distress. That's why I'm asking the government, it's gonna be an action like this, it's gonna be a schedule like this. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-03-23-220	Thank you, Congressman Cook. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Tallai in return.
u2020-03-23-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, You are an MSZP congressman, and I must warn you, too, that you have been given the chance of a crisis management. If someone has dealt badly with the crisis and has put the country in even greater trouble, it is your government, perhaps you were a Member of Parliament, so thank you for your advice. But I'd like to say something to you three words. Yeah, it's safe. What does the government do now? He's defending himself. He wants to provide the safety of Hungarian people, and he will do everything in his power to protect the health of Hungarian people. Yeah, predictability. I think the predictability is that people trust the government, trust the government's actions. They can only rely on the actions of a government that can act calmly, wisely, and not panic. I believe that all three words are true of the current Hungarian government. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-23-222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató and Ágnes Vadai, representatives of DK, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister László Palkovics has given the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-03-23-223	Mr President, Dear House, We'd like to wait for Prime Minister to ask him about his thoughts.
u2020-03-23-224	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What about testing? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister László Palkovics has given the right to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-03-23-225	I'll take it.
u2020-03-23-226	Yeah. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2020-03-23-227	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, Here, too, in this House, we have discussed several times how the number of tests in the case of Crown Virus in Hungary is developing, what is the reason why in Hungary only 5,000 tests have been carried out in the latest numbers or the latest public figures we know, while the number of tests in the Czech Republic and Austria is already well over 15 thousand. These countries are countries with roughly the same population as us, so there is a fair comparison. Why is it that much less tests are being carried out in Hungary? As the Prime Minister said last time, I would like to indicate that the nature of the virus is such that we cannot filter it, so it is not possible to filter it. In one case, we have only certain knowledge of the infection if that particular antibody has already appeared in the body. For example, in Italy, it is said that the higher mortality rate is due to the fact that only patients are being tested, which is said by the Deputy Director-General of the WHO. This is important because you always refer to WHO protocols. But similarly, the WHO Director-General also says that we can't fight the virus without knowing where it is. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This means keeping an eye on him, isolate him, test him, and deal with each case separately in order to control the chain of further infection. This is exactly what was not done in Hungary, this year's testing, and of course not blindly and not without reason, but at least in the case of those who showed the symptoms from countries that have been infected to some extent, or in the case of those who have been in contact with people who have been infected with the coronal virus in this way. The Prime Minister said that we should ask Minister Kasler calmly on this issue, but he signed this answer to you, but I hope that we will get an answer this time that the government will change this practice. Thank you very much. [[18.30]]
u2020-03-23-228	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister László Palkovics.
u2020-03-23-229	Thank you very much. The question is what do you expect Congressman to do if we are to test more than the current dynamics. We did 5,500 tests by last night, and it grows every day. There are several approaches to reducing the spread of the virus. Some countries don't test at all. Slovenia has now reduced the number of tests, Sweden has not tested at all, England has also done relatively few tests. There are countries where much more is tested. We asked the WHO's opinion. The head of the WHO office in Hungary, Ledia Lazeri, said that at this moment in Hungary, in this state, the virus does not make sense to filter the entire population, because it will not have a greater meaning. It's worth doing in suspicious cases, in those who show symptoms or have encountered a coronal virus infection. So we're following the WHO's recommendation. If we look at whether the number of cases detected or the risk of infection in Hungary has been analysed, we have looked at all the surrounding countries, and they show the same pattern in virtually all the neighbouring countries. So if you look at the dynamics before or above the 100 cases you've achieved, you see practically the same dynamics. So, really, speeding up the tests is going to happen, because as we keep moving forward, we're going to test more and more. But the fact that these devices are not used for diagnostic purposes, but for screening, according to WHO, doesn't make any sense. So that's all there is to it. This does not otherwise affect measures taken against the virus. This is the goal, we have chosen this solution, unlike, say, England or Sweden, to try to delay the rate and run of the virus spread, so that the number of newly infected people, if possible, remains below the capacity of the supply system. The interesting thing is, what happens when we want to take these measures out, how we can control it afterwards. We've thought about it, we've simulated it, we've built a very serious simulation environment. You're really not going to depend substantially on that. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-23-230	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Gergely Arató is responsible for the rejoinder.
u2020-03-23-231	I'm an educator myself, so I know that a well asked question always guarantees the right answer. Of course, if you ask the WHO how to test everyone screened, WHO will answer that you don't have to. But this is not what the medical chamber or opposition parties have initiated here in Parliament, but rather to follow the WHO recommendation and test everyone who has symptoms, to test everyone who has come into contact with Crown Virus cases. You give the example of England. It is an example that should not be followed. They were the ones who let go of the plague, trusting in flock immunity. The result is that today the English are on the Italian track two weeks late. This is what we all want to avoid, but to do so, we need the government to change the practice of testing, not to save on testing, and not to hide what the real data is, but to test it in all justified cases. That's a lot more than today's case number.
u2020-03-23-232	Thank you very much. The Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2020-03-23-233	Thank you. Congressman, so far we agree, because we follow what the WHO says and what the Member has said. Where, by the way, he may have contacted the infected, we test where there are symptoms, we test. We'll do all these tests. There's a so-called relationship matrix for every country that forms the input of these calculations. There is also Hungary, which was done before the virus. Yesterday, this research group of the University of Szeged sent out a questionnaire in which we would like to see this contact matrix after the measures introduced. For example, this is much more important in terms of how, for example, we can predict different cases. So we're continuing with WHO's proposals, we don't want to save on tests, the tests are coming from China, which we've just talked about, a significant amount of tests are coming from China, and we're doing them, and we just don't want to test them unnecessarily if it doesn't have any added value. Again, it was the WHO's suggestion. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-23-234	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Péter Ungár, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Will the government urgently strengthen the social security system? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári asked for a reply. Do you accept the identity of the responder? [[Peter Ungár: Yes.]] He'll take it. Then it is up to Congressman Peter Ungár.
u2020-03-23-235	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I think it is appropriate to start by thanking, as appropriate, the work of social workers who are now doing heroic and unbroken work during the epidemic situation and cannot stay at home as they otherwise expect of those whose work permits it. The fact is that I have already sent a question from several social workers and social workers' organisations to the Ministry of Human Resources. In the spirit of constructivity, I did not do this in the form of a written question, but in the form of a plain letter in order not to have a specific deadline to answer. So, I hope that the answer will not be my usual correspondence with the EMMI Parliamentary Department. At the same time, there are two details that I would like to ask you, which is perhaps the most urgent. One is that with the safety and safety of the people, the social workers who work in the daytime institutions, which, in a completely understandable way, the government has closed because of the epidemic situation, what the government is planning to do. These people are generally qualified, so they can be used either in another way of protecting against the epidemic, but it is very important that they are able to work in some way or at least not to live in uncertainty. The other thing I would like to ask you quickly is that a lot of social workers are concerned that their children cannot be placed if they have to work. There are many who are single, in most cases single mothers. Obviously, this makes it even more difficult for a local government not to run kindergartens with full capacity to do so. So in this case, do you have any extra licenses that apply to them? Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-03-23-237	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, we thank all of us at this time for ensuring that those who are in a difficult situation, whether in health or in the social sphere, are given greater attention. Obviously, one of the most important things is to protect residential nursing homes from getting the epidemic there, so we have taken very radical measures, and very radical regulations have also been laid down by the Chief of Staff. Indeed, he sent about 33 questions last week, which are mixed, that this will facilitate or distract workers in this field from their work, but the first question he said, so we talked about it not only in relation to your question, but also in connection with this, will require the work of these people in various ways. Obviously this also depends on the area, the institution concerned, the locality concerned. The first and most important is the care of the people who have been taken care of, but, obviously, in a day institution, the meeting of these people should now be avoided in an extraordinary way. But these people need some care. So the reverse task is possible in part for these people, so it's perfectly natural that they need their work, they don't have to be afraid that this work will go away, but obviously less often than on common occasions, but they can reach out to the elderly and help them in their own homes. There may be a need for someone in a boarding school, so it changes from place to place, but there are different ways and opportunities. The custody of children, as you said, is a very important issue, and it has already been found here in Parliament today that there is no work in schools, but the government has made a decision in groups of up to five, precisely so that children do not infect each other, of course, the custody of children is assured. The municipality has the same task of social catering as it did three weeks ago. So this must continue to be organised. If kindergartens or nursery schools close somewhere, however, where there is a demand, the municipality is also responsible for organising the day-to-day babysitting, so these children should also be kept under supervision during the day. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-23-238	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Ungár.
u2020-03-23-239	Thank you very much for the answer, especially with regard to daytime institutions. I'm sure that's an answer that's gonna calm a lot of people who's been afraid to live in a state of insecurity. I would also like you to answer briefly that this cannot happen, because we have received such feedback, and we do not want to cause alarms, so I ask in the form of a question that someone is being medically required to be quarantined at home because, let's say, he is in contact with an infected person in an elderly home, and then his time in the home quarantine comes out of leave or sick money. That's not gonna happen, is it? I hope you understand, Mr Secretary, why this would be terribly outrageous in this situation. [[18.40]] We have not received a specific answer as to what is the exact procedure in such a case; neither the union has received an answer, nor the county manager, who has objected to this. So, in this case, if you could calm the social workers down and calm them down, I think it would be very important. Thank you.
u2020-03-23-240	Thank you, Congressman Ungar. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-23-241	Thank you very much. The decree of quarantine at home is not made because the state makes arbitrary decisions for some reason, but because it is obviously in the interests of all of us; it is in the interests of the individual, his relatives, his friends, his loved ones, his neighbors, the people on the street, the people in common, that is the interest of everyone to submit to this measure. It's an obligation in the public interest, so everyone has to admit that they have to do it. I have seen at least one of these issues in the last few weeks, perhaps several, and there it may be precisely according to the legislation in force that it is not for you, but for one of your fellow Members; it may be that DK was actually the questioner; it may not have been you, honourable Member, in writing I have given precise information on who is subject to social security, labour law and other rules in this case. Everyone, therefore, not only in the social sphere, but everyone, who is required to be quarantined, is subject to the same rules. So, on the one hand, we ask everyone to comply with this very important thing, and the police are also checking it, unfortunately in a number of dozens of cases, there have been about 60 cases of violations, so it is important to comply with it, and the general legislation also applies to workers in the social sphere. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-242	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:, How does the government help Hungarians stranded abroad to return home? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Vargha granted the right to reply. Do you accept the identity of the responder? [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: Yes, thank you.]] It says yes. Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán has the floor.
u2020-03-23-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, While we are struggling to slow down the spread of the coronal virus at home, we should also consider our stranded countrymen abroad. They may be the ones who are in the most desperate situation right now, who need all the help of the Hungarian government. It has already been heard that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has a strong interest in the fate of Hungarian citizens who have been quarantined abroad, whether in Japan, Brazil, the Canary Islands or Germany. Last Wednesday, our Panamanian consular office rescued 11 Hungarian citizens from a quarantined music festival. On Thursday, the news was that on a special plane we managed to bring home the Hungarian people who were stuck in Morocco because of the closure of the airspace. In addition to 108 Hungarian citizens, this machine also supplied 34 of our neighbors. This means that, along with 38 Hungarian citizens on Austrian Airlines' one day earlier flight, all 146 Hungarians were safely returned home in Morocco because of the closure of airspace. More and more countries are announcing total airspace and border closures, making the passenger traffic completely impossible. There may be thousands of Hungarian citizens who wish to return home, but in this situation it seems almost impossible. From my constituency, such as Pilisszentiván, a scholarship student was stranded in Indonesia or Budakeszi in two young Lima. What can they do? How can the Ministry help Hungarians who are stranded and want to return home abroad? [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-03-23-244	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary.
u2020-03-23-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much, Congressman, for your question. Indeed, in addition to Hungarians stranded in Morocco, nearly 1,500 Hungarian citizens left the country they had previously been in during the weekend. By noon today, this number has expanded by hundreds more, and so we can say that in the last three days, thousands of our countrymen have left from different parts of the world, and most of them are already home, but we also know that there are many others, almost the same number of them are still abroad. Of course, this number varies from hour to hour, depending on your check-in at the embassy, the consulate, but fortunately, it is decreasing, and, as Congressman mentioned, the possibility of commercial flight is shrinking around the world due to the airspace lock, closing air spaces and airports. This is what happened in Cyprus, where we brought home Hungarians stranded there with the provision of a small Hungarian air bridge if that does not sound pompous with a separate aircraft. Commercial flights no longer work in South America, many surprisingly in Peru, the Philippines, India. The Hungarians in Israel will be brought home this week with the help of EMIH, the Unified Israeli Community of Hungary. There are many even in Thailand and Indonesia, but there are still commercial flights. In America there are many, almost thousands, in many countries across North America, we help them to gather together, and then we bring them home, as we did with the help of our Polish friends in Poland, and we can help them home from Warsaw by air, because via Slovakia we can no longer have a car. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-246	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman.
u2020-03-23-247	Secretary of State, I'd like to thank the State Department and all your staff for the work they're doing. I must add that the aforementioned Indonesian university lady, although unable to make it home, is giving her all the help she needs, so I would also like to thank Ambassador Judit Németh-Pach for her help. The two young people in Lima even indicated that they were quite hostile to them, and I think that is the case in South America, but many places in Africa, so it would be important to help them. At the same time, I would also like to thank those who work in the neighbouring country, for example, for crossing the borders towards Slovakia, and who have been able to cross the bridge in Komárom since Friday. Once again, I wish you good work. Thank you.
u2020-03-23-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This item is closed. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Secretary of State?]] and moving to the next item on the agenda. The Commission's report on the declaration of Káptalandomb as a national memorial in Győr is now under discussion. The government referral is T/9475. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. Secretary Soltes? [[Miklós Soltész: Mr President, we will conclude.]] At the end. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Representatives' speeches will follow in the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask if anyone has anything to say. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, I will close this part of the debate and give the floor to the rapporteur, who obviously wants to give his thoughts on the item on the agenda. Mr. Miklós Soltész is the secretary of state. [[Miklós Soltés' microphone doesn't work.]] Secretary of State Miklós Soltész wants either a microphone or a voice. He does have a voice, but he doesn't have a voice. [[They put a portable microphone in front of Miklós Soltés.]] Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The bill proposed and proposed that one of the most historic parts of Győr, the Káptalandom, be declared a national memorial place. To this end, the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. It is necessary to amend Annex 2 to the Act. It is worth knowing about the national memorial place that sites of significant importance in the history of the nation, which, by virtue of their nature, are of outstanding importance in the self-image of the nation, which can be the sites of national commemoration. [[18.50]] The bill therefore declares the Káptalandomb as a national memorial place, where the following buildings are located: the Győr Basilica, the Bishop's Castle, the Saint László Visitor Centre, the Győr Diocese Treasury and Library, the College of Faith Sciences and the Hotel Conference, on which I would like to make a short detour. The church monuments of Győr are the monuments of the thousand-year-old Christianity, such as the image of the bleeding, tearing Virgin Mary in the Basilica, and the herma of St. László, which is the most important sacral monument of Hungary next to the Holy Crown and the Holy Right. The Bishop's Castle of Győr includes four castles. At the foot of the tower was established the memorial place of the martyrdom of Vilmos Happy Apor, and it is also worth knowing that it actually unites 1,700 years: so the episcopal seat, the memorial place of the martyrdom of Bishop Vilmos Happy Apor, and the sacral and military architecture of Győr in the fourth century. From the century to today. The diocese's library also holds very important written material. The corvina of King Matthias stands out, and in the Hotel Conference, partly in the building, is included in the former III. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The walls and watchtowers of the Roman fortress of the century. The College of Faith Sciences, the bridge-like main entrance of the building, borders the western entrance of Káptalandomb, and in front of the southern wall of the building of St. László Visitor Center, there is an IV. The wall of the Roman fortress of the century. After this brief look, it is important to stress that the proposal to amend the bill has not been tabled, and the Cultural Committee has not expressed any intention to amend further, which is why this proposal makes a major contribution to strengthening Hungarian national integration and identity by extending the scope of national memorial sites. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/9475 on the declaration of the Káptalandom in Győr as a national memorial place. Please support bill number 1. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-23-250	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, asked for a speech with a title on the subject of the fight against the virus. I give the floor to the congressman in a five-minute time frame.
u2020-03-23-251	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, For just ten days in the morning's radio interview, the Prime Minister has strongly stated that there is no reason to close schools for now, and that he is threatening teachers who demand this under one smoke, that they would be sent on unpaid leave if this were to happen. The only reason universities are shutting down is because there's a lot of foreigners there, and they're probably spreading the virus, which, let's face it, is a completely mind-numbing nonsense. Of course, the infection could have been introduced by a foreign student arriving here as well as a Hungarian doctor or politician returning from skiing in Italy, we do not know that, but it is quite clear that if the virus is already in here, it can spread any other way. The footage media will present experts in a long, crowded line that day, and these experts will explain that the closure of schools will mean national death and destruction, which can only be demanded by soros and Gyurcsány, the pro-Migré liberal communists working to destroy Hungarians. Well, hooray! The Prime Minister, on the other hand, is quite surprisingly announcing that the schools will be closed. Remember? In the morning he'll say, "If you need it." Did anything happen that day that made it necessary? Nothing, as far as we know. Perhaps a quick phone poll was made in the Fidesz witches' kitchens, which showed that today the larger half of the population would like the schools not to be open, or perhaps the Fidesz representatives gently indicated on the faction that two thirds of the parents would keep the children at home even if the government turned upside down. And similar miscellaneous measures will occur if we observe it. Cultural and sporting events are banned, but casinos can work, of course; I suppose, so that the income of kissers can not be reduced by a penny. Some of the restaurants and shops close, but only after three o'clock in the afternoon, as if the virus weren't infected in the morning, only in the afternoon. Of course, the Traficans can be open for as long as they're not interesting, they're full-blown business. And what did we hear from Viktor Orbán today? He sent out raiders and scouts to the four directions. Well, please, the Czechs didn't use stupid sentences, the Czech government simply picked up the phone, or sent two e-mails, and ordered masks and quick tests for millions from China, and then brought it home in a government plane. Our non-governmental aircraft are resting on the concrete, perhaps waiting for the good time and another football match to be flown to Viktor Orbán. In Slovakia, TV announcers read the news in masks, and invited politicians wear masks, but also leaders of the new Slovak government. They'll charge 800 forints back home for a no-good mouth mask, if they do, because most of the time they don't. Today's news and case in Debrecen: 28 doctors in the Debrecen emergency department write 9 masks and say: 9 masks are shared, and healthcare workers receive two single-use green masks per week. Please, this is the general situation here. We know, we all know, in case of a big problem, there's almost one help in the case of viral infection from the ventilator. The Democratic Coalition hasn't moved a thousand of its sticks in the last few days, in weeks, until now, when the house is on fire, please, they've just started rushing, and now they're trying to buy it for the government. The government's ears are coming from under the grass, from China, from the EU, but they're even looking for dentists in this case. Please, such a machine is about 5 million forints. What are we hearing the other day? The government allocates HUF 2 billion to HUF 770 million in an urgent manner for church investment purposes. 554 of these would go for a machine like this. Everything else shows that the key to stopping this epidemic is the number of viral tests. In other countries, you know that very well, every day you are slowly doing as many tests as we have done so far. The Prime Minister referred to Austria today, so allow me to set an Austrian example: 23,500 tests were carried out in Austria until the morning of this day, in our country, and this was just mentioned here from the Secretary of State's mouth, only 5,500. Therefore, and perhaps that is why 167 infections have been isolated or detected so far. The fact that otherwise, how many people have been infected in the country, how many people may not know, the people will not know, and the government will keep quiet about it. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Dear House, It is difficult to conclude from this that the government would be least interested in controlling the epidemic. I believe, if nothing else, that's something he should at least think about. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski applauds.]]
u2020-03-23-252	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Representative László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Why are there not enough masks and hand sanitizers? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-23-253	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you very much. The Orbán government has a lot of failings to deal with the problems caused by the coronal virus, but one of the most important is the lack of protective equipment, specifically masks and hand sanitizers. For weeks, the news has been all over the press that even health workers who work tirelessly in the front line don't get protective equipment. It would have been necessary for all Hungarians to have access to the so-called FFP2 or FFP3 masks of the highest quality, offering the highest protection, such as the one I'm wearing here. One such mask, by the way, lasts about four hours, so even dozens of them would not be excessive. It is possible to argue whether the government should have provided this free of charge for everyone, or whether it would have been enough to abolish the VAT on products to make it cheaper and affordable, as DK suggested. [[19.00]] But the problem isn't really here, it's that anyone who wants to pay for it can't buy masks, can't get them in the pharmacy, can't get them in the drugstores. Let me tell you that last Friday, the director of a rural hospital came to us, DK, asking us for help to see if we can get him masks, because there's no other way for him to get them from the government. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen. If there is a mask, it's measured at a gold price. What you're looking at here was bought for 5,000 forints a week ago. But I was lucky to find some more pieces. There are two reasons for this situation: either the government could not arrange in time to have enough masks in the country, or it did not spend enough money on it, and it did not seek to obtain them from abroad. Whichever case we're dealing with here, both cases show the government's grave incompetence. I can hear the voice of the pro-government at this time, when they are said and rated that, well, today, the Prime Minister announced that there are 1.5 million masks in the country, the aircraft that brought 82 thousand pieces in today has landed. So that means we have 1.6 million masks in the country. In a country of 10 million, congratulations on that. I also hear that the Prime Minister announced that they would be able to make 25,000 surgical masks a week, but then the production capacity will go up to 80,000 masks a week. And this was about the surgical mask, so even the weakest, least effective mask can only be made from a small town a week in this country. While we were sitting here this afternoon arguing about this issue, the news came that the Rescue Service on Facebook asked the public to give him masks and started collecting because there was no mask so much. It was also recent news, Viktor Orbán said that from tomorrow, the individual hospital workers will receive such or some kind of mask, right, special masks for those working near intensive beds, and the others will receive a smooth mask. Doesn't that mean they get it from tomorrow, so he admitted that they didn't get it or didn't get enough? There's no better situation in hand sanitizers. The press also wrote about it this weekend several drugstores received hand sanitizer packages, but this was rushed in a few minutes, even if a customer could buy a maximum of two. As an alternative, what did the government say? That the pharmacies would make their own hand sanitizer out of pharmacy alcohol, but the pharmacies indicated that there was a shortage of this too, that there was a shortage of pharmacy alcohol, so we didn't get hand sanitizer here. A word like a hundred, it's still not too late, even after today's news. DK asks the government to be sufficiently antiseptic and the best quality mask, for everyone and for weeks in advance. In addition to today's announcement and new purchases, it won't be enough, buy it, get it! If the Slovaks, the Czechs and the governments of many other countries were able to solve it, then perhaps you can do it. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-23-254	Thank you, Congressman. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting speech. What is the situation? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-23-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I am the last speaker, and I thought I would summarize what really happened here today. Just because it appeared on the Fidesz pages that the opposition prevented the government from prolonging the emergency. We all know that's not true. I'd like to tell you now what really happened here. On January 7th, the WHO said that a virus that has not yet been identified is spreading around the world, that there is no vaccine against it, that they cannot determine its treatment yet, what can be overcome, and that it asks the governments of all countries to take this seriously and start preparing for it. Compared to this, our government announced the emergency only on 11 March, even though it could have done so before, precisely to take the measures in advance. What are you gonna do? He knows that on March 26, the 15 days of emergency, which are due to the government, are stalling, and he will only submit it to Parliament on the weekends of 21-22 March, not the bill or proposal for a resolution laid down in Article 53 of the Fundamental Law, but a whole new law that would tell the Prime Minister when the emergency will end. Everyone should know that Article 53 of the Fundamental Law is about the 15 days of the emergency declared by the Government, which the Parliament may extend. So we were here today in Parliament, we could have made the extension of the emergency with the parliamentary resolution, but the government did not do this, but tabled a new law, in which there is no deadline for Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to tell the end of the emergency. Today, we have decided not on this law, but also on the basis of Mr Orbán's urgent, exceptional procedure, so that there is at least one vote in which he can say that the opposition does not support the resolution of the emergency. This took a certain four-fifths majority, so that Parliament would not make the decision in eight days, but tomorrow. But what would Parliament decide otherwise? We would not be making decisions under the Fundamental Law, but we would have to vote for a new law, which is completely contrary to the spirit of the Fundamental Law. What, then, is the conclusion? Fidesz is also violating its own Fundamental Law in order to capitalise political capital against the opposition itself from the emergency, the difficulties of the coronal virus epidemic. What happened in the House today? The Prime Minister said that he can make all the decisions without the opposition. If Prime Minister Viktor Orbán can make all the decisions without the opposition, then why did all the Fidesz pages appear during the meeting that the opposition prevented him from prolonging the emergency? Then, of course, he also said why we would say against this illegal law when Parliament could decide how long the emergency would last. Of course, there was a great deal of information in the opposition, because the two-thirds Fidesz Parliament could decide when the emergency would end. Whose proposal? Mr Orbán's presentation. So the circle is closed. But there was something else going on here today. How much the Prime Minister is deceiving society: one of the speakers here in this House today thanked all those who are in the first row and help our country's population overcome this huge problem. The opposition stood up applauding, and the Fidesz remained seated and did not applaud. It has been said several times today that there has been a migration crisis and how well the government has handled it and has been given the authority. Yes, please, the migration crisis continues to exist today with fewer migrants wanting to enter Hungary than before 2014. All exemptions from public procurement are requested for the migration crisis, and Fidesz is practically using that crisis every day. Why would we think in this House, even a single opposition, that with this anti-law law that you brought to the House on the weekend, you would not abuse it and would not want to maintain its unlimited power? This is what happened in this House today.
u2020-03-23-256	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed.
