u2016-09-26-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 5th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz faction leader, Mr Lajos Kósa, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title of the bombing bombing in Hungary. The congressman has the floor.
u2016-09-26-1	Mr. President. Dear House, A shocking event took place on Saturday evening in our capital city, the Grand Boulevard. A John Doe patrolling the Grand Boulevard attempted to execute two police officers in plain sight. On the basis of the information currently available, this wording fully reflects reality, and I must say that deep shock and compassion have taken over everyone. I'd like to begin by expressing my condolences on the victims and wishing them a recovery. One of the officers was injured, the officer was injured by life-threatening injuries, but she was stable; the officer was injured by serious and dangerous injuries, and her condition was a little better. What has happened is shocking, unprecedented, and I think the most important thing is to give the police, the Detective Attorney General and the organizations involved as soon as possible all the help they need to find the unsub. Today, all you can say is that every version and the opposite of it has come to light in the press, but none can be confirmed or refuted. As a matter of fact, the police were attacked, not just by that patrol party, but by the police as a body. A body whose vocation is to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people, from border control to public surveillance to law enforcement, and if this body is under attack, it is an attack on the security of the Hungarian people, the security of the Hungarian people. So it is in our elemental interest to stand with the police in the strongest possible way, to say that the case is unprecedented, that it cannot take place again; the unsub must be caught with all his might, a manhunt must be launched after him, and it must be made clear that this is intolerable in Hungary, in the Hungarian rule of law, in Hungarian democracy. Speculations and conspiracy theories about the bombing must be rejected, because we cannot say anything about the motive of the unsub, what his motivation was, what the nature of the attack was. No assumption should be accepted or rejected. Dear Parliament, This morning, the House's National Security Committee and the National Defence and Police Committee attended a joint meeting with the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the national police commissioner and the relevant services, the head of the TEK, and we can say what we know today. So the assumptions, the speculations, the conspiracy theories are more specific than the case. As for the case, I think there's only one thing to say: we stand by the police, and we will do everything we can to help them catch the culprit. All questions can be asked only after, because if the unsub or the unsub turns up, then you can ask them what the motivation was, what the motive was, what the purpose was. Today's condolences and shocks are primarily the word, and secondly, the full stand for the police; every democratic force cannot have any other task in the present situation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-2	On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, First of all, I would like to thank the police for their support for the Hungarian people, for expressing that this attack, which took place on the Teresa Boulevard on Saturday night, was directed against the safety of the police, the police and the Hungarian people. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to wish the members of the police patrols, whose recovery the doctors are doing their best, and I would also like to stress that the police, the Ministry of Interior and the government are giving all their help to the seriously injured police officers in order to heal them, and we are waiting for them to return to duty. Thank you, Mr. Group Leader, for your support. [[13.10]] So far, according to the investigation, it's clear that the targets of the attack were the police. This was not only an attack on the police, but also an attack on the Hungarian people. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the police are constantly working with enormous force to investigate the crime. So far, 145 surveillance footage has been seized by the police, the evaluation of the footage has been carried out continuously with the help of the National Bureau of Investigation and the Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre. During the course of the procedure, an extended field visit, a peer review, witness research, data collection and the involvement of experts were carried out. The police are working closely with the Counter-Terrorism Center, the civilian intelligence services, the National Defence Service, and the investigation of this case - once again - is being carried out by the police with enormous force. The investigation can be greatly helped by the fact that a street camera footage shows the unsub. The police will publish this footage on its website later today, this afternoon, asking the Hungarian people to help the unsub get to hand as soon as possible. I believe that this is in the interests of Hungary, and it is in the interests of all Hungarians. That is why I ask the Hungarian people to give me their help. Dear Parliament, I would not like to say more about the further details of the case now, given the interests of the investigation. Once again, I would like to point out that the police are doing everything in their power to apprehend the perpetrator. And I would like to thank all those who have helped this investigation in any way. I would like to stress that the police received a lot of help at the scene in the moments after the crime was committed. People helped us, gave us information, cooperated with the police, because they felt that this serious attack was not only affecting police patrols who were killed and seriously injured, but also endangering all of us and threatening all of us. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I would also like to inform you and the Honourable Parliament that the police are determined and will do everything in their power to bring the perpetrator to justice as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government and LMP benches.]]
u2016-09-26-4	In whose interests does the government serve? Mr Bernadett Szél also spoke before the agenda.
u2016-09-26-5	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, First of all, allow me to wish the police victims a recovery, and at the same time express my hope that the authorities will be able to deal with this terrible matter as soon as possible. After our meeting this morning on the committee, I can say that my hope is well established, because both in depth and in width - to express myself in this way - the competent ones are doing their job. At the same time, it is very important to cooperate with the public in this case, so I would like everyone to do the same: whatever they know about this, help our police officers work. I gave my agenda the title of whose interests the Hungarian government is in the service of. Let me begin with this speech with a fundamental truth that I should not normally say. This obvious truth is that if you govern Hungary, you cannot take away the work of Hungarian people. Why should I stress this fundamental truth in this way? Because the government has been exposed, and it turns out that they are planning to relocate foreign migrant workers to Hungary in a mass and organized manner. You can see that Fidesz is also uncomfortable in this situation. It is clear that after Mihály Varga's coming out in July, János Lázár, though blushingly said on the government's info, said that although he is respectful of Mihály Varga's claim, the government does not plan such a thing, but last week or two weeks the Parliamentary Secretary denied even that Mihály Varga would have talked about foreign migrant workers. The truth, on the other hand, is so prosaic that, even in May, the Parliament did not give its consent to this, under a migration salad law, that companies who have entered into strategic agreements with the government or are engaged in high-priority national investment can bring in foreign migrant workers in this country in bulk and organised, even outside the trade in shortages. This law has been in force since July. According to our calculations, about two months before the procedure passes, the effect of this law is expected to be activated soon. I would like to highlight two things in this regard. On the one hand, billions were consumed by the campaign - as you, my fellow members of the Government, have turned to the campaign - one of the main slogans of which was that if you come to Hungary, you cannot take the work of Hungarians. Well, they're not gonna take it, because the government is giving it to these people, and they're doing it under the circumstances that the Hungarian people who are at home and work are largely unable to make a proper living from the wages they receive at home, or there is such emigration in this country that full trades will cease, there will be shortages, and complete generations will disappear from some rural cities. I think - and this is the other thing I would like to highlight - that the government has now - and the Fidesz-KDNP - made clear the fact that it has sided with large companies with sufficient lobbying power in relation to workers, and this migration salad law is a living admission. Who are the government? The strategic partners. Who are the government? Investors in priority investments. In fact, when it comes to missing trades, there is no need for a simplified procedure even for a professional licence, and from some countries outside the EU, workers can come in. The thing is, there are two things that you need to see. We said who should be a strategic partner in this country: let's say, bakers, say, nurses, teachers, all professions whose reputation in Hungary is now very low when it comes to wages, for example. SMEs and small and medium-sized enterprises have been cut by Fidesz-KDNP at least three times so far. On the one hand, they are not the strategic partners, the big multis are the strategic partners. On the other hand, if you look at how much an SME receives for a job, what we say it creates, at best, 1-3 million forints. On the other hand, we know of a multinational who received HUF 30 million for a job created. This law, which you have passed in Parliament, is about supporting these companies from tax forints, receiving terrible subsidies for jobs, and then you don't expect these companies to hire Hungarians. Because from now on, these companies can say that even the wages that the workers have to pay in Hungary are expensive. They bring in workers from foreign countries, from countries with lower wage standards, who do it for as much as a Hungarian doesn't do it anymore, they go to London, Germany, Austria, but not because they want to live so well, but because they want to live. And that's a very big difference. In addition, SMEs have been badly affected because they are also affected by labour shortages. The multinationals have already smoked it from them, and now they will, because they are not included in this salad law as a priority target group. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, The labour shortage in Hungary was not created yesterday, and the wage crisis that this country is in was not created the day before yesterday. Emigration from the country has been increasing since 2011. In 2013, I myself heard companies call for help. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That there's a shortage of workers, there's nothing they can do. We do not accept this solution, we do not accept the introduction of foreign migrant workers! What do you intend to do?
u2016-09-26-6	I give the floor to Secretary Peter Cseresnyés. [[13.20]]
u2016-09-26-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't know how many times you've tried to explore these questions, which you've raised, with quite a few slippages, constantly mixing up a lot of things in a five-minute comment on labour shortages, foreign workers, employment policies, SMEs, multinational companies. But in order to answer your original question, I would like to share some thoughts with you. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, following the economic turn of events, labour demand in the competitive sector has, by definition, increased and temporarily even labour shortages have occurred in some places. In the second quarter of 2016, almost 40 thousand empty positions were offered by companies with at least five employees. The recovery in demand, as I have said, is not, however, equal to a labour shortage, a permanent shortage can only be said if companies do not find suitable professionals for a given job for a long time. So far, thank God, it is not entirely possible, there is no such problem in Hungary today. It should be noted that I will tell you what I have said many times, disproved what you have said here, that the number of employees has increased by nearly 660,000 in the last six years, i.e. since the change of government in 2010. This means that unemployment has fallen at least in this proportion. That's down by 250,000, which means it's down to 5 percent. I would also like to stress that one of the main problems with employment now is that the competence, the qualifications that the entrants or those who wish to enter do not necessarily meet what employers expect of them, so they must be trained for a longer or shorter period. Among other things, we are transforming our vocational training system because we are trying to meet labour market needs, modern skills and expectations there. The two processes mentioned above have resulted in regional imbalances between supply and demand, on the one hand, and on the other, in the structure of the profession, and, as I said, however, we cannot talk about a total shortage of labour. The government's strong position from the outset is that the job vacancies in Hungary must primarily be filled with Hungarian citizens. I have said this to you on several occasions, within the walls of Parliament. Not on one occasion, but on several occasions. This means that workers from outside the EU are only entitled to work in Hungary if we cannot fill vacancies with Hungarian workers temporarily, for shorter or longer periods. Residence permit, which also gives rise to employment, can only be granted to workers from third countries for a fixed period of time in Hungary in the event of a shortage of labour. If you do not believe, Congresswoman, because you are constantly shaking your head, please look into what the legislation that regulates this is about. We should check it out. The strict condition of issuing permits is that neither Hungarian nor EU citizens can be recruited by the National Employment Service for a given job position. It should be stressed that the employment of foreigners in Hungary is not unlimited, either in time or in terms of job or other conditions. I would also like to emphasise this. Let me give you a number: In 2004, around 65 thousand work permits were issued to third-country nationals of Hungary. So 65,000 work permits were issued. This was 5 thousand last year, and this year around this number is about the amount of work permits that we have issued, despite the quota number that could be issued, has been set for years: 49 thousand. That's why I'm saying you don't have to slide, because those numbers and those ominous predictions that you keep making here, almost week after week in Parliament, they didn't come in, and they won't come in for regulation. Therefore, no one in Hungary has to worry about losing their job because of the employment of any third-country professional. In fact, we also look forward to seeing those who have tried their luck abroad. I report that their return is increasing, and more and more of those who temporarily took up work elsewhere are coming back to work in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-8	Now it is up to the representative of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr László Szászfalvi, to address the issue of the referendum. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The KDNP faction was also shocked to learn about the bombing in Budapest. We express our condolences to the victims and wish them a speedy recovery. We stand by the Hungarian police and wish to find the perpetrators of this crime as soon as possible. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Only the blind cannot see that, as a result of the mistakes made by Brussels bureaucrats and some European politicians, Europe, the European Union, is facing unprecedented challenges. These challenges are becoming an everyday reality in the form of serial acts of terrorism, atrocities against women and children and aggressive manifestations. The next step in this process is the institutionalisation of forced introduction without any upper limit. The irresponsible leaders and bureaucrats of the European Union want to push a new mechanism down the throats of nation states and European citizens, which they have no authority to do, and which push Europe, including European citizens, to the brink of a gap. It is incomprehensible and incomprehensible what motivates these intentions. But their cunning intentions, the consequences of their proposals, are very understandable that Europe is being weakened, delivered and given up completely, covered in empty ideological robes. Would Europe have been so burned out that you would acknowledge all this with your arms wide open? Dear House, Unfortunately, in the meantime, the Hungarian left is not looking after the interests of the country on this issue, but rather blowing a stone with irresponsible European leaders, just for small-scale political gain. MSZP called the migrant situation a fake problem a long time ago [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: False People's Choice!]] There were left-wing leaders who saw a peaceful crowd in them. In the meantime, in many parts of the country, including my constituency, Inner Somogy, we experienced last year that it was not a fake problem at all. As an example, Zakány settlement, where more than 10,000 people marched through in one night, and in one month there will be about 150,000. Their number did not get bigger because the government took the necessary measures, and the police and soldiers defended the Hungarian people, for which we owe them great thanks here and now. In addition to protection, humanitarian care was also at a very high level. Mr. Miklós Soltész, the President of the Charity Council, has repeatedly confirmed this on the ground. In two years, the government supported the work of these organizations by HUF 450 million. The migrants often rejected them, humiliated them, but still stood up to them. Let's thank them for their sacrifice. Now, after a year, the Hungarian Left encourages people, for completely incomprehensible reasons, not to give an opinion on the most important issue concerning the future of our country. They are talking about a fake problem with forced resettlement, even though it goes far beyond party politics. This country is a fundamental issue for a long time which we have a shared responsibility to answer. Ladies and gentlemen, The stake of these days, the Sunday referendum, is whether we will accept the weakening of Europe and our country, whether we will let the bureaucrats in Brussels steal our sovereignty or stand on our heels. It's that simple and clear. There is no left or right, there is no believer or atheist, there is no Hungarian, Gypsy, Croatian or German; we are a nation, a society, a community. In this historic situation there is no left-wing or right-wing woman, child, granddaughter; there are only European Hungarian people, women, women, girls, boys, grandchildren, communities, landscapes, houses and homes. Perhaps the idea of Prince Gábor Bethlen is now really current: . Let us act to remain: in Hungarian, in the language and religion of our ancestors, in the light of our children and in the attachment to the homeland. The time will come on October 2nd, the time for joint action. The KDNP parliamentary group asks all voters to go to the referendum and give their opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] 13.30)
u2016-09-26-10	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-09-26-11	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You spoke about Somogy County experiences. I consider this important because it highlights one of the underestimated risks of the Brussels quota package, that the main burden of the resettlement programme is ultimately borne by the municipalities, the villages and the cities. In many countries of Europe, there is already a resettlement programme, there are quotas now, so we are familiar with the experience. On this basis, it is clear that resettlement programmes should not be conceived as living in a large camp for immigrants deployed in individual countries, but by dividing them between provinces, counties, cities and villages. This leads to serious local conflicts, as each province tries to push subquotas down the throats of the settlements. We therefore ask all municipalities and all local government leaders to consider the consequences of introducing a quota system for their own place of residence. Honourable Congressman, The Brussels quota package, we have talked about it a lot, there are many risks. The most important thing is the security risk. Because terrorists are using uncontrolled immigration in a well-organized way to blend in with immigrants. Although the vast majority of immigrants are victims, they are victims of many things, of their governments, of smugglers and of failed policies in Brussels, but we cannot ignore security risks. No one can force Hungarian people to endure all the security risks of uncontrolled immigration. Dear House, Crowds have come to Europe in recent months through Hungary. They came from many places and went to many places. But one of them was a terrorist named Salah Abdellam, who recruited his own associates at the Eastern Railway Station, and shortly thereafter, Salah Abdellam was involved in terrorist attacks that resulted in dozens of innocent people losing their lives. We also know that the ax bomber from Würzburg escaped from the Fotian Institute. So among the inbound masses are those who would kill in cold blood instead of integration. We can't ignore this security risk. Anyone who removes the security risks of the Brussels quota package is recommended to analyse the case of the three Hungarian girls who have been raped by immigrants or to interview the truck driver who was brutally beaten at Calais. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I suggest you do the same. If we do not listen enough, if we do not act now, those serious incidents, the serious attacks that have taken place in Western Europe, can happen to us. The referendum on 2 October does not fit into our usual domestic political struggles, it is a national matter, because it is about the future of Hungary, about Hungary's security. For us Hungarians, safety was too expensive to take into account all the risks. Hungary's safety is worth a walk to the polling booth. That is why we are asking everyone to exercise their democratic right, to participate in the referendum and to vote no. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-26-12	Mr Tóth Bertalan is next, head of the MSZP Group, who will give his statement on responsibility and security before the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about responsibility and security, we can't just walk away from two things. One is the Saturday night bombing, the other is the hysteria, the hysteria that the government and Fidesz have been doing for months in Hungary and abroad. This is confirmed by the speeches I have made before me. First of all, on behalf of the MSZP Group, we want the injured police to recover as soon as possible, and we also expect the investigating authority to find out the details of the case as soon as possible and to catch the perpetrator. After all, the government has received everything in recent years to protect the safety of Hungarian people. We therefore consider it a serious mistake that the investigative bodies did not provide official information for 20 hours after such an event, thereby facilitating the hysteria, the uncertainty the government has been pursuing for months. Before the referendum, at the time of the European terrorist threat, the Hungarian population was much more sensitive, which is why rapid information would have been important. Especially in view of the fact that, once again, the government had everything it needed to protect the safety of the Hungarian people, it had everything it needed to carry out its duties. We have TEK, we have Tibet, we have passed various laws in Parliament and we have provided billions from the country's budget. It's no wonder that all this feeds on the different conspiracy theories. But, fellow Members, my question is where the Prime Minister is at this time. Where's the Home Secretary at this hour? Because when you have to defend your own interests here in Parliament, you have to say your own saying, here you are. But now, in order to give information, to reassure people, to answer the questions that have been raised, he's not here. 'Cause we should tell them how to protect ordinary people if that's what happens to our cops. However, the uncertainty and hysteria resulting from the lack of information are irresponsible, it does not increase security, it does not solve anything. It serves only the Prime Minister's party policy objectives. The referendum of 2 October is not about anything else. This referendum is pointless, because this cannot solve the refugee crisis. It is unnecessary, because whatever the outcome, it does not bind Hungary or the Union to anything. Liar, a bluff, because there is and will not be a mandatory resettlement quota on this issue. It is expensive, because more than 11 billion forints have been spent in public money towards the Habony-Vajna-Matolcsy-media, while there is no money to increase the number of paramedics. And it's cynical because they're inciting me against Syrians, Afghans and other refugees fleeing war. Meanwhile, with the intervention of offshore companies, the government has provided settlements for a small town of Russian, Syrian, Afghan and other national economic immigrants in Hungary, and it promotes in Africa how good it is to live in Hungary, for a lot of money that fills the pockets of your friends. Ladies and gentlemen, You know perfectly well that the referendum is not about refugees, but about Viktor Orbán. Its aim is to draw attention to the real problems of this country, to the fact that hospitals are not working, to the inability to put schools and education systems in order. Why is that? Why can't Hungarian children get useful knowledge in schools? And why did more than half a million Hungarian citizens leave? While Orbán's buddies, Butchers, Voldemorts, Matolcsyk, Rogans take everything they can. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP is responsible and rejects hatred and fear raising as a party for the safety of Hungarian people. It therefore proposes a responsible opposition alternative to Fidesz' populist, corrupt and anti-Hungarian policy. Therefore, we call on all Hungarians: if you are sick of the corrupt and anti-Hungarian policy of the Orbán government, then stay home and do not participate in the referendum on 2 October. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-09-26-14	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go. Please, Csaba Dömötör... [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] I'd like the members of the MSZP faction to remain calm, and I'd like the support staff to turn on the Secretary of State's microphone. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much.
u2016-09-26-15	Thank you for the floor. As far as the bombing the day before yesterday is concerned, it is a ignominious and cowardly crime committed against two law enforcement officers. We think, and we ask all the actors to show their responsibilities and restraint, to help the police with their work. We regret that the left also uses this case for party policy purposes. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] This is also the case with regard to the issue of the referendum. I think you already know that the referendum is the most important event of these months, but it may be that of these years. Their party president knows that, as he interviewed one of the national newspapers on this subject the other day. That's why I'm asking you this, because we're a little disappointed. We thought that the MSZP could put aside raw party political considerations and that it was finally able to look at the country's interests in the matter of the referendum. Instead, however, all I could do was talk nonsense. I can't even say that they actually said that immigration was a fake problem. The southern border closure was hit hard, but on 31 August the MSZP said in a communication that we should not pretend there is a Brussels quota because there is no such quota, and then the president of the MSZP stood up the next day and said that he was in favour of the government in the fight against quota. Then a few days passed, an MSZP representative spoke, who said that he was opposed to the resettlement of migrants. We do not know what the Presidency of the MSZP threatened with, but one Commissioner, Eszter Móricz, had to withdraw his words and issue a completely opposite statement. That's how it works in a party that, in principle, considers freedom of opinion important. [[13.40]] Dear Members of the MSZP, Your party president, and perhaps you said so, Mr. Group Leader, said that there is no good answer to the question put in the referendum. If you think so, if you think so, then let me ask you why your MEPs voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution a few days ago. It is about the resolution that has ratified the quota package, speeding up the resettlement programmes, extending it to new countries; it provides a financial penalty for those countries who do not want to participate. You have voted in favour of this resolution, and you are talking to the Hungarians all over the country. It's been a long time since we've seen such a cynical attitude. [[Intercoms.]] You know very well that the European Commission has also made it clear on several occasions that it is not in its right mind to withdraw the quota package. This has three particularly dangerous elements: compulsory distribution of immigrants, financial penalties and facilitating family reunification. It's a risk enough to say no loudly. Dear Chief of Staff, His speech was called, if I remember correctly, responsibility and security. Nothing in these days is more about responsibility and security than the Sunday referendum. There's still a few more days before the reference. This is enough for you to realise that this is not a party policy, but a national matter: it is about the security of Hungary, the security of Hungarian people, regardless of party political views. We are well aware that the Brussels quota package presents serious cultural, economic and security risks that we cannot and should not take on. By the way, your voters know that very well; we do not understand why at least they are not represented. One thing is certain, the remaining few days are enough time to forget all this misconception and to finally clarify that they are voting yes or no on October 2nd. A country awaits you with the honest word and the straight answer. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Kács: Write this on the back of the buses. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-16	Mr János Volner, the leader of the Jobbik faction, is now coming, Mr.János Volner:, Why does the Government of Viktor Orbán finance the media near Fidesz, which has been proven by several court judgments, trying to discredit opposition politicians? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, at the beginning of my speech before the agenda, I would like to say that we wish recovery as soon as possible for those police officers injured in a bomb attack whose health the doctors are currently fighting for. My condolences and my pain are also justified by the fact that I, too, have protected public order in the streets of the district where these patrolmen were injured for years. So believe me, I feel this whole situation almost on my own. But moving on to the subject of my speech before the agenda, in the spring I was at a meeting with Speaker László Kövér once, when I suggested to the Speaker that we do everything possible, with politicians of parties working together against the sinking of Hungarian political life to become personal, character killer, filthy. I proposed to Mr Speaker that we establish a code of ethics in order to avoid this and to agree with the government on issues that no opposition party is targeting because these issues are important for national affairs. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer from Fidesz, but shortly thereafter, I became the target of a character-murder attack involving me, a secret surveillance case. For 26 years, ladies and gentlemen, in Hungarian politics, there was no such thing as ordering secret surveillance against someone, and then trying to embarrass these politicians through their private lives in pro-government media pumped with taxpayers' money. To this despicableness, this nonsense, neither the SZDSZ nor the Socialists have fought until the Fidesz did so. All reasonable people in Hungary realize that in Hungarian political public life there are no agreements for the benefit of the country which fall into a well because politicians are busy using the press to try to undermine and destroy each other's privacy. In my case, the pro-government media has constantly brought down a multitude of lies - each of the pro-government media has joined this line - and I have been on the second largest commercial channel in the country five times, and Viktor Orbán's prime minister owns this channel, and then a relationship consultant has analysed my private life without knowing it, since we have not even seen each other. Recently, Gábor Vona, who also had Italian paparazzi busted, discovered that he was being followed by paparazzi. And what is it that connects the people who were followed by paparazzi? Spédert, Juhász, Vona, Volnert: we are all afraid of the government side, we are all in the way of Viktor Orbán, and at the moment it can also be said that Gábor Vona and János Volner are the two politicians in Parliament who are stabbing Viktor Orbán's eyes most, and from whom the Prime Minister is most afraid. [[János Halász: Modestness! Moore, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is also important to see that monitoring Members of Parliament is an illegal transaction, an lawlessness that the Parliament has passed legislation to prevent Members from having the potential to be blackmailed by orders with secret service tools. It is also important to see that in this case the authorities have covered up the case, and have done absolutely nothing to find out who is responsible for this, has not been prosecuted, and nothing has happened in this case. It is important to see that Fidesz orders and the Fidesz press executes these surveillance with secret service tools, where, by the way, taxpayers' money is currently being filled with 11 billion forints of tabloids publishing pornographic content, and with this public money, of course, the government side cannot account for it. Last but not least, because I see that Minister of State Csaba Dömötör is preparing for his reply, I will say this only to inform the public: not a week ago I met Mr. Secretary of State's lawyer in court, where he was condemned by the court and punished for lying about better politicians. The sequel is yours, Mr. Secretary. [[Defiance from the opposition side.]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-18	With your permission, Mr. Secretary, I'll give you the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As far as your suggestion is concerned, there is a serious debate in Hungary on where the borders of freedom of the press are and where the protection of politicians' privacy should be taken into account. I didn't see this tough right-wing stand when the Prime Minister's family members were targeted at articles that were embarrassing, just as it did for other pro-government politicians. Regardless of the fact that you didn't stand up, I think that every politician should be protected by privacy, especially if it's not family members. This is true of everyone, regardless of party affiliation. In your speech, I quote, you spoke of pro-government media. To be honest, I was a little surprised, surprised by your speech, the strangest thing is that you did this speech. Why am I saying this? Allow me to start with what you have to say. You told Karcagon earlier that it is very important for me to create the media background of Jobbik on behalf of Gábor Vona. Now I'm working on a commercial channel for Jobbik. My summer months are gonna be full of this. That's what you said in Karcagon in 2014, and then you speak up and talk about media near the government. [[György Szilágyi: Where is the contradiction?]] As far as funding is concerned, if you feel compelled to act, you should, above all, start with your own party. Jobbik's party foundation finances a portal, and there were months when this portal had to make four requests for correction. But Jobbik also has a weekly paper; Jobbik's weekly paper is because the decisive part of the revenue of the company that issues the weekly paper in question comes from Jobbik's party foundation. In the newspaper used as the mouthpiece of the party, your party president was a former owner, but even his wife and sister-in-law - after that, you talk about psychics near politics. [[13.50]] It is very interesting that Jobbik is now concerned about the protection of privacy, which, through its advertisements, has camped for a long time on Kuruc.info - you may know this. This page showed itself with its unpredictable style and unsatisfying views from other sides and, among other things, with [[György Szilágyi: 888.hu, Árpád Habony. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] that he has published private phone numbers for public figures. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-09-26-20	Congressman Szilágyi! You need to discipline yourself, please.
u2016-09-26-21	Dear Chief of Staff, Did he indicate his reservations to this page when, for example, he gave them an interview? Was he sensitive to the style of this site? Putting all this aside, it is clear from today's speech that you are talking about everything but the referendum. The country is holding a referendum this week, deciding whether we can reject a dangerous quota package in Brussels [[Noise in the lines of Jobbik and MSZP.]] You, like the MSZP, are only concerned with party politics. [[Dóra Dúró: Shame on you! Shame on you. Moore in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Typically, your party president on ATV said he didn't even appoint a campaign manager. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Because he said they were focused on the period after 2 October. In order to approach it from another point of view, in recent days we have learned that the president of Jobbik considers his upper body to be acceptable, he also imagined that he was sitting on the back of a turtle in the Galapagos Islands. [[There's a constant murmur in the opposition benches.]] The press didn't find that out. He said it himself in a tabloid magazine. We have all learned this, but we have not learned what Jobbik is really doing for the success of the referendum. This is the future of Hungary, which is why it is strange for a party that considers itself national. I'm sure you have good reason to pursue such a policy as you know... [[Noise in opposition benches. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You don't believe that yourself, because you laugh at it! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-09-26-22	I see that my fellow opposition Members have lost their patience by the end of the speeches before the agenda, but they have already had a few seconds to endure. Be quiet, please. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-26-23	If you give us the respect of being watched, we would say that we do not know what Jobbik is really doing for the success of the referendum, it is strange for a party claiming to be national. I'm sure you have good reason to pursue such a policy, and I'm sure you know who asked you to do it. Thank you for your attention. [[György Szilágyi: Long live Csaba! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-24	Dear Parliament, We have apparently reached the end of the speeches before the agenda, but later you will see that this is not quite so, provided that you vote in favour of the departure from the house rule. In any case, I would like to ask Mr Dezső Szigély to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-09-26-25	Dear Parliament, He applied for the speech after today's agenda: Tamás Turgyán, an Armenian ethnic advocate; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; László Varju, independent; Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Ikotity, István LMP.The following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Tamás Sneider, Jobbik; László Földi, KDNP; István Tukacs, MSZP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Dénes Galambos, Fidesz. He applied for a speech after the agenda tomorrow: Sallai R. Benedek, LMP; Tamás Pintér, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2016-09-26-26	Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament a transcript of the termination of the office of State Secretary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2016-09-26-27	Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 54. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I have concluded that Dr. Barna Berke, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, will cease to be authorised with effect from 23 September 2016. Budapest, 22 September 2016 Sincerely, János Áder.
u2016-09-26-28	Dear House, Now, as I have indicated, we are deciding on proposals for derogations from house rules. The House Committee initiates that, on this day of Parliament's meeting, it should be able to depart from the house rules in such a way that, before deciding on the agenda proposal, the Ukrainian ethnic spokesperson Hartyányi Yaroslava may speak for a maximum period of five minutes on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of Ukraine's declaration of independence, so that no further comments can be made. A derogation from the house rules was proposed by H/12211. can also be found on the website. I am now asking the House whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has unanimously adopted a derogation from the house rules by 162 votes in favour. The House Committee also takes the initiative to depart from the House Rules on this day of Parliament so that, before deciding on the agenda proposal, Imre Ritter is able to speak for a maximum period of five minutes on the presentation of the German Federal Ministry of the Interior's directive on Hungarian citizens of German nationality, so that no further comments can be made. This proposal for a derogation from house rules was made by H/12210. can also be found on the website. I ask this House whether they will contribute to the departure from house rules. [[Vote.]] I note that the House has unanimously contributed 163 votes in favour to this derogation from the house rules. Dear Parliament, The House Committee initiates the National Assembly H/9425 on the Day of Hungarian-Bulgarian Friendship. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of the decision-making proposal, it shall depart from the rules of the House so that the final vote can take place on Tuesday's sitting. This proposal is addressed to H/9425/3. You can know it on the website. I ask the House whether it will contribute to the departure from house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has contributed by 163 votes in favour, with two abstentions, to a derogation from the house rules. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted for 14 hours and 57 minutes today. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place on today's sitting, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Dear House, In accordance with the decision of the Parliament, Mr Yaroslava Hartyányi is speaking before the Ukrainian minority agenda for a five-minute period on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of Ukraine's declaration of independence. Allow me to pay tribute to his Excellency Mrs Nepop Ljubov, Ukraine's extraordinary and authorized ambassador in Hungary. I give the floor to Mrs Yaroslava Hartyányi. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-29	Шановний пане Голово! ШановнΓ ДержавнΓ збори! МаȚ велику честь висловити щирΡ слова подяки угорському народу та Державним зборам Угорщиниза 25-ричну соледарнисть та допомогу незалежний Укра Mr President, Dear House, It is a great honor for me to have the opportunity to thank the Parliament, the people of Hungary, with all my heart, for solidarity and for the support that has been given for 25 years in the process of gaining the independence of Ukraine. The most eloquent example of this is the unanimous decision of the Hungarian Parliament of 24 November 2003, in which the great famine in Ukraine in 1932-1933 and holodomor was declared genocide by the Stalin regime against the Ukrainians. Ukraine's European choice of road is no longer an issue for debate. The idea of returning to a common Europe has become a strong force and continues to be an agenda for the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian community in Hungary and the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia. We know that the only way to do this is through good relations with countries neighbouring Ukraine. Hungary has played a prominent role in this. It is not by accident that he first signed with Ukraine a declaration on the guarantee of the rights of national minorities, and then a convention on good neighbourly and cooperative funds, which resulted in the establishment of the Hungarian-Ukrainian Joint Committee on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities. [[14.00]] Thanks to the work of this committee, Hungarians living in Transcarpathia and Ukrainian ethnicities in Hungary have promoted the political and cultural development of their communities, strengthening their national identity. These two communities are thus building a symbolic bridge between the two countries. At the Ukrainian local elections in 2015, Ukrainian citizens of Ukrainian nationality joined the Transcarpathian Hungarians to join forces, with their votes contributing to the successful entry of Hungarians into the county and district councils. Since 1989 Ukrainian independence efforts have been closely monitored in Hungary. The official visit of the President of the Ukrainian Supreme Council, Leonid Kravcsuk in Hungary in May 1991, was a breakthrough in bilateral relations, since Hungary's independence was de facto recognised by the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Ukrainian-Hungarian Basic Treaty and the documents on the consular agreement. Immediately after the referendum on Ukraine's independence, Prime Minister József Antall's visit in December 1991 included official diplomatic relations between the two countries. On 24 August 1991, the Ukrainians declared independence, thus the centuries-old efforts of the almost forgotten people in Europe - Terra incognita - came true, crucifying the existence of the great Soviet empire, which has also made the lives of so many peoples, including the Hungarians, miserable. Hungary supported Ukraine's European integration efforts from the beginning of Ukraine's declaration of independence, took an active role and gave Ukraine all its assistance at the time of its accession to the Council of Europe, and contributed to the cooperation of the Visegrád Four with Ukraine in 4 plus 1 form. In the memorandum signed in Budapest in 1994, Ukraine received a guarantee from the major powers to ensure the integrity of its territorial unit against the decommissioning of nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, the guarantees have proved to be limited. Ukraine was forced - and is still valid today - to defend its territorial unity with arms, even though the Ukrainian people desire peace. At these times - and to this day - we feel again the support of the neighbouring Hungarian people, which manifests itself in the care of wounded soldiers, in the rehabilitation camping of nearly two thousand orphan children, in the sending of humanitarian aid supplies, in the reception of the pastor in the Ukrainian language of the Ukrainian community. In my opinion, any attempt to resurrect the aforementioned empire is doomed to failure. I believe and confess that only a united Europe, the strong national states that respect each other [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and support each other for better or for worse, only they can survive the ordeal that is now pouring into the world, but mainly on Europe. I would like compassion and mutual respect between our peoples to become even stronger. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Thank you very much for your attention. God bless Ukraine and Hungary!
u2016-09-26-30	Thank you for your speech. Imre Ritter's speech before the national minority spokesperson will now take place in a five-minute period:. The German Federal Ministry of the Interior will also present a directive on Hungarian citizens of German nationality. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, who, like Mrs Yaroslava, describes the first sentences in her native language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-31	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzender, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Zuerst möchte ich mich für die Gelegenheit bedanken, dass ich bei einem so wichtigen und empfindlichen Thema, wie Malenkij Robot das Haus, die ungarischen Bürger und die betroffenen Ungarndeutschen über einige aktuellen Fragen informieren kann. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to inform this House, Hungarian citizens, including the German nationality concerned, on some of the current issues on an important and sensitive subject such as the Malenkaj robot. The Bundestag, which was adopted by the Parliament of the Federal Republic of Germany, published on 7 July 2016, entered into force on 1 August 2016 in AM1-21005/2211. Directive No 7 imposed a one-off allowance of EUR 2500 - some HUF 750 thousand - for former German forced labourers. The aim of this one-off allowance is to recognise the difficult fate of German citizens and German nationalities who, as civilians, were obliged to do forced work for foreign power during and after World War II. This one-time allowance thus affects forced labour, commonly known as the Málenki robot, people of German nationality in Hungary who have been taken away as civilians. Unfortunately, there have been press reports about the directive that, even at home, tens of thousands of people can receive compensation from the German state, which has been received and published by several news portals without control, which have deceived and misled the Hungarian population and their relatives who have suffered forced labour. These false press reports have ignored the conditions of eligibility clearly laid down in the Regulation, in particular the fact that the allowance is granted only by the surviving forced labour force and by the spouse or one child of the deceased after 27 November 2015. Thus, relatives and descendants whose close relatives have already died before 27 November 2015 are not entitled to this one-off allowance, and 98-99 percent of those who have suffered forced labour have unfortunately died before 27 November 2015. Based on the data of our surveys - not yet final - the number of people entitled to a one-time allowance of EUR 2500 will be between 400 and 500 people in Hungary instead of tens of thousands published in press reports. I would also like to apologize to all those who have been deceived by this article, for the media that publish misleading information, even though they are not entitled to a one-time allowance. I hereby inform you that, in recent weeks, the Federal Office of the German Ministry of the Interior - what dem Bundesverwaltungsamt - has been in complete agreement with the application criteria and we have drawn up a complete information document. From 1 October 2016, the National Government of the Germans of Hungary will send the information material to all holders through the German regional offices in the county, the associations of the German local governments in Hungary and the German Speaker's Cabinet, and we will give you all the assistance you need to make sure that the German Ministry of Interior does not reject any legitimate claim due to formal or substantive deficiencies. The final deadline for submitting claims is 31 December 2017. Finally, I would like to inform the House and the members of the government present that, as a German parliamentary advocate, I will take the initiative that the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Government, will also examine the possibility of taking a step similar to the decision of the Bundestag in the case of German citizens still living among us who are forced to work as civilians, as well as Hungarian citizens of Hungarian and other nationalities. I think that this would be a worthy conclusion to the two-year commemoration of the Raspberry Robot. I respectfully ask you to support this initiative both in the Hungarian Parliament and in the Government. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2016-09-26-32	Thank you, Mr Spokesman, for your speech. It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, The Government has initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/12250 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of illegal gambling. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments by the third hour following the decision on the exceptional procedure on this day, the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[14.10]] Dear House, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, namely one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/12250 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, namely one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/12250 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. (Vote.) I find that the House has adopted the motion by 115 votes in favour, 27 against and no abstentions. In accordance with our adopted decision, amendments can be submitted at 5 p.m. today, the consolidated debate of the bill will be decided on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear House, The Fidesz Group has proposed that H/9425 on the Hungarian-Bulgarian Friendship Day LXXV 2015 on the free municipal ownership of certain state-owned assets for the purpose of fulfilling the tasks of county libraries and county-wide urban museums. T/12066. Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the T/11900 on Civil Procedure. The general debate and conclusion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall take place as the last item on the agenda of today's sitting. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that the date of the meeting be changed to 8 a.m. on Tuesday's meeting and that decisions be taken no earlier than 11 a.m. Anyone who agrees with that should also vote with a raise of hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group proposed that on Tuesday's meeting, T/12067 amending Act I of 2010 on the Registration Procedure. H/12180 on the position on the signing of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part. Following a general debate on the proposal for a decision. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please also indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. There is a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Turkmenistan on the publication of the Convention between the Government of Hungary on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income and property taxes, T/1123. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask this House whether it accepts T/1123. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has adopted the bill unanimously by 163 votes in favour. Following the process of publishing the T/11102 Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Kuwait Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/11102. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the proposal was unanimously adopted by the House with 165 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal is now being made. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Széchenyi Dezső to present the S/12242 tabled by the President. The content of the personal proposal.
u2016-09-26-33	32/2014 on the election of officials and members of the ad hoc committee to appoint members of the Constitutional Court Point 1 of the parliamentary decision of 8 July 2006 is hereby amended as follows. The National Assembly elects Mr András Schiffer, LMP, as a member of the Constitutional Court, Mr Benedek, LMP, as a member of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2016-09-26-34	Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Parliament whether it accepts S/12242. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the personal proposal by 142 votes in favour, no votes against, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:17 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungarian Prime Minister László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:.The Hungarian Prime Minister really has Hungary's national interests in mind? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister László Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation. The congressman has the floor.
u2016-09-26-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You are enthusiastically proclaiming in combat rhetoric that we are in a fight, and we are not alone in this fight. After the last informal EU summit in Bratislava, Hungary was found to be left alone and not in the fight that it thought it would be, because this Hungarian government is fighting against what is not, and what no one has ever wanted, this is the mandatory resettlement quota. After the summit in Bratislava, government communications still say by force that Visegrád's cooperation has never been so deep. Compared to this, it was only the Hungarian Prime Minister who said that this summit in Bratislava had failed, that it had not achieved its goal, but that each other took this meeting as a success and a forward-looking one. Both Czech Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico said that the quota issue is no longer on the agenda. But how do you feel about cooperation in Visegrád? How do we lose our closest allies when government propaganda says day by day if we have to make Visegrád cooperation deeper and more united than ever? Even this morning, I heard the Prime Minister say that we would become a defense and defiance alliance with the Visegrád States. Compared to this, it is in the background of the Prime Minister's Office that Bratislava does not want to accept or reluctantly accept many Hungarian or Visegrád initiatives. Poland and I have almost no common ground where we can agree on the Russian issue, for example. There are no positions on a thank-you basis. The conclusion can be drawn from this, Mr Secretary of State, that you are left alone in a fight that is not about refugee policy, nor about cohesion of the European Union, but about the destruction of the European Union. That is why they are talking in the European Union about the fact that only Hungary and Viktor Orbán actually have a close relationship with Vladimir Putin. Russia is working with every means to dissipate this community, which we call the European Union, and there is a rumor that Viktor Orbán has become an instrument in this, serving these Russian interests by flaunting the flag of the sovereignty of the nations. [[14.20]] And in the public talk we hear that Hungarian politics and the Hungarian economy are Moscow-oriented, Moscow-friendly, if we are talking about Paks II, Metro 3 or just that Viktor Orbán was the only one who did not condemn the intervention of European leaders in Ukraine, the aggression in Russia, but he was the first to speak out in order to lift the sanctions on Russia. That's an understanding of the attitude. I would like to ask, Mr State Secretary, who gave the Hungarian Prime Minister the authority to do so. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Bravo! Applause in the same place.]]
u2016-09-26-36	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-37	[[Without sound:]] Honourable Congressman, Dear House,
u2016-09-26-38	Please turn on the Secretary of State's microphone.
u2016-09-26-39	[[Without sound:]] Honourable Congressman, Dear House, [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Microphone!]]
u2016-09-26-40	Hold on a second, please. Here you go, Secretary. Your mic's on.
u2016-09-26-41	[[For portable microphones:]] Thank you very much.
u2016-09-26-42	Now there's two. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-43	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am a little disappointed with the question, because I feel that the person who asks such questions is uninformed, and I feel that he does not refer to the facts, but to the Disney Channel, he constantly talks about rumors and rumors, and draws completely inconsistent conclusions from them. A few days before the referendum, it was once again revealed that the left was clearly pro-immigration, supporting compulsory forced resettlement. He raises a Russian question in a way that doesn't really define what a Russian question is. We know very well that the Hungarian government represents the interests of Hungary, the Hungarian people. We have a pragmatic relationship with Russia. I would like to continue to remind the Member that it is very important for our energy security to remain in touch with Russia. Of course, we are doing everything we can to diversify the energy supply in Hungary. However, it is incomprehensible that you still question the fact of the compulsory resettlement quota, but the European Commission and even the Commission spokesperson regularly confirm that this category exists and that Brussels is still in favour of resettlement quotas. It's very clear, so it's only possible to misinterpret it on purpose. Who the Hungarian people want to live with is clearly the right of the Hungarian people to decide, and that is what the referendum of 2 October is about. The boycott call of the MSZP is undemocratic and only shows that the left is afraid of people's opinions. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] We ask everyone to leave on 2 October and vote no, because Hungary's future must not be risked, illegal immigration and forced resettlement must be rejected. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-44	I give the floor once again to the rejoinder representative.
u2016-09-26-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I could also say that you didn't watch Czech 2 when you said so. Nor did he look in the facts that the President of the European Commission said in his opening political speech: there is no compulsory resettlement, no compulsory quota [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among other things, he didn't say that!]] There's a voluntary quota. All you want to hear is what promotes your political goals. [[Intruder from Fidesz: No, it's not true! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The pragmatic relationship with Russia is a rather interesting pragmatic relationship, so what is pleasant to them is what we endure, what is unpleasant to us, and what we are forced to endure. It's not pragmatism, it's submission. If the 1989 Viktor Orbán met the 2016 Viktor Orbán, I don't know if they could look each other in the eye. I don't accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Bravo! Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-09-26-46	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 112 votes to 37, with no abstentions. László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title of daily health corruption. Mr György Lukács has the floor.
u2016-09-26-47	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, He's in an unworthy position. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] today's health care, called modern health care, because a phenomenon called gratuity money devours the trust relations between patients and health workers and poisons their everyday function. Thanks money is so part of today's supply system that there are journalists who are testing how to survive an operation without a hospital stay. But there are forums where patients are looking for an answer to which doctor in which hospital it is appropriate or mandatory to give, because unfortunately, it is mandatory, even expected, as a tariff. In fact, there have also been serious business lines for gratuity money, when some doctors do not go to work, perform surgeries, and give birth just to receive their own gratuity money after the intervention or in advance. In my view - and this must be said - the gratitude money has nothing to do with the gratitude it has in return for help, but rather with the wages of fear. The current legislation considers thanksgiving to be legal if the head of the institution permits and requests this not in advance, but after the intervention. Of course, this regulation not only legitimizes part of the gratuity money, but also opens the way with loopholes for illegal gratuity money, which is used as a tariff. However, when the state authorizes gratuity money, it just forgets to keep records of legal places that accept gratuity. To my deepest surprise, when I approached the State Health Services Center, my written question was said not to be taken into account, to turn directly to the institutions. The response received and the fact that the state maintainer has no idea what is happening in hospitals clearly shows that the system is currently completely opaque. If the state does not have any information on where they are being given, they will accept gratuity money legally, then it may also be assumed that it does not have any information about where it is given illegally. That is, either he doesn't care, or he consciously overlooks everyday health-care corruption, approving violations of the law. Mr State Secretary, it is safe to say that the current government has not only institutionalised but also strengthened Hungarian health care based on gratitude money, forcing patients and their relatives to put themselves in an unworthy and financially burdensome position for their recovery. At the moment, we are saying that gratitude money is a special feature of Hungarian health. Dear Secretary of State, I think it's time to put the fear tariff known as gratitude money on the waste heap of history and put an end to the daily health corruption that both the patient and the worker are burdened with. In view of all this, I look forward to the reply of the honourable Secretary of State on the following issues. Why doesn't the government act more forcefully to eliminate the gratuity money? Why doesn't the state institutionkeeper know where gratuity money can be given and where not the hallway to corruption? And when are you gonna hold back on cases where you're illegally asking for a tariff, thank-you money, even if you don't have an employment relationship at that hospital? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-48	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I trust that you are not so keenly interested in which hospital there is gratuity money, and in which hospital you are not interested in your former Kft., Doctors A Broad Kft. And what may still work in your family now knows better where to take doctors abroad and where they have less chance. That's what you've been interested in from this point of view. From this point of view, you are a bit like SZDSZ politicians, who wanted to make a good living from health care, while at the same time detracting and detracting the healing capacity of health care and human resources. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] You've earned a living from taking up to 62 doctors to Ireland in six months, and then here in Parliament, you're concerned about the state of health, and you're interested in gratitude money in hospitals, who gives and doesn't give. I really hope you don't want to pass this on to your former family company as information. At the same time, we believe that gratitude money has been a huge problem in Hungarian health care for a very long time, which causes and causes a lot of other problems, which is why we have to act against it. But it hasn't been ten years, Congressman, for the first time in Hungarian law history or in Hungarian history. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Was it Fidesz?]] In 1957 the expression "thank you" was said at an official forum, the Communist Party had a convention, there they talked about the spread of the system of gratuity money in recent years, and we have been moaning about this pregnant heritage since at least 1957. We believe that one of the most important, not the only, but one of the most important tools we can fight gratuity money is precisely the increase in doctors' wages. [[14.30]] Therefore, as early as 2012-2013, when we imposed the public health product tax, more commonly known as the potato tax, we turned back the total amount of it into a health wage increase, both for doctors and nurses. This meant an increase of around 24-27 percent at the time, and we were able to convert more than HUF 90 billion of public health product tax, chips tax, into medical wages. But now, when the performance of the economy is allowed to make greater progress, we are making significant increases in salaries for doctors and nurses. Part of it was, since from 1 September this year, doctors' wages have increased by HUF 107 thousand, and from 1 November next year they will rise by another HUF 100 thousand, and this means an overall increase in wages of HUF 207 thousand, so it is already noticeable. We hope that this is an important set of steps to reduce the amount of gratuity. Similarly, it is important that there were 26,5 percent wage increases for nurses and 12, 8 and 8 percent wage increases this year on 1 September and next in the coming years. Overall, this doubles the pay of nurses between 2012 and 2019. It is also very important that we have tried to squeeze out the gratuity money in the previous years, as 3,500 young graduates have already entered the residency program, they will receive 100, 150 and 200,000 HUF depending on the specialty they choose in health care and how they work in a public health institution; they have also undertaken not to accept the gratuity money in exchange for this scholarship. The other reason, which is obviously, in many cases, despite medical work, is bad circumstances. We managed to remedy this with a HUF 500 billion grant from the European Union and Hungary, as this is how we renovated the hospital's equipment park, the hospital buildings, so that they could be more worthy of doctors as well. And the fact that, in the next year's budget law, which you do not support, there is a HUF 171 billion more on the health line than it was in the course of this year, shows that these additional resources can actually move forward. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] By taking doctors abroad, he does nothing to stop the gratitude money and even increase the negatives of the situation, but we try to do something about it with the extra resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-50	I will give the floor to the Member once again for a return answer. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-51	Thank you very much. You know, Mr. Secretary, I didn't know why you'd be so lucky to have me so far ahead. I'll tell you why: because now I can see you trying, lying, struggling to avoid answering on a subject. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Glasses really help!]] In this case, even in the case of gratuity money, he avoided these answers, and we never hear the government say that gratuity money has to be eliminated. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's how they say "money"!]] We never have to hear the government say that everyday corruption in health care has to stop. Your fellow State Secretary, Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, said he'd wear himself out of the system someday. But I'm telling you that if you're so interested in what it's like to see doctors leave Hungary, you could look into the reasons why they're leaving. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're a professional at this, we know that!]] One of the reasons is the gratuity money, and with the gratuity money, we'll get the doctors to leave... you're very free to calculate and look into it. It's not anyone's fault that you created this emigration-based future in the country, that the gratuity money has been regularized...
u2016-09-26-52	Congressman, do you accept the answer or not?
u2016-09-26-53	...that for all... [[The president's gonna turn off his mic.]]
u2016-09-26-54	Congressman, your minute's up. Do you accept the answer or do you not accept the answer?
u2016-09-26-55	I don't accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-56	Thank you. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 109 votes to 34, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, leader of the LMP Group, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office with the title of the Asphalt scandal - the boundaries and alternatives of the corruption model. It's for the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, it turned out that the European Union was holding back hundreds of billions of forints from the previous cycle because of the so-called asphalt mixing, at least 220 billion forints are at risk. The reason for this is that the government uses hundreds of tricks in road construction to provide its own current oligarchs with incredibly overpriced orders in procedures called public procurement. In this case, rules for the transport of asphalt, disguised as environmental, have been applied selectively, but this is transparent: the transport of gravel, sand and other building materials, which also cause harmful emissions, has not been taken into account. It is therefore not an environmental aspect; it is an oligarch protection aspect. Thus, against the 10.4 billion-dollar road construction offer, the 14.8 billion-dollar wins with 42.3% overpriced. This is how twice a single lane can be built for 3 billion a kilometer, which is expensive even for motorways. The section of the M4 motorway between Berettyóújfalu and the border would be built by the disgraced oligarch at HUF 25 billion cheaper than the current one; a corruption premium of 43%, a reward for the moonyard of HUF 25 billion. So the Hungarian government, continuing the similar activities of the MSZP-SZDSZ government, simply considers road constructions to be a cash pump, they do not even care if what is finally built can be used for something. Now this corruption model has failed in Brussels, the model where some of the selected friends get the business, and then not doing any meaningful work, but by taking down the great pale, it will be outsourced to subcontractors, and those who do the real work will get only a hunger fee at the end of the line. On the other hand, there is another model, Mr Secretary of State, where the motorway is built not for 83 billion, but at 50 percent cheaper, and there is real competition for the work, so that most roads can be renewed from that amount. Today, most of the lower roads in Hungary are in a terrible state, even though they determine the life opportunities of the countryside. Therefore, it is a sin to steal the money that could be used to renovate thousands of kilometres of county roads, and several small road constructions would mean more commission for real Hungarian small businesses, more jobs and higher wages for the workers. Mr. Secretary. When will they switch to the second model for the benefit of the country and the workers, and when will those responsible for the obvious theft be accounted for? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-09-26-58	I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-59	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You know, I didn't think in Parliament's walls that once in the LMP, in politicians who chained themselves to the Public Machine a few years ago, I could respect lobbyists of the Public Machine. I wonder if we will also see visible signs of this in the party political statements of the coming years, which concern their financial situation. And, you know, only for the superficial political observer, it seems that the LMP really does have a consistent position and tries to take a pragmatic approach to all political issues or professional issues, because we see that this is always changing day by day. Sometimes the only reason for this is what the government represents; on the other hand, you represent your own position and sometimes you represent a visible economic interest. You are the party that says that small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary should be supported. Shortly before, Mr Bernadett Szél, your fellow Member, stood up and said that the government was making a strategic mistake when it concluded a strategic agreement with large companies, and today you are asking that in the new public procurement law the possibility of accessing small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary is much more extensive. Today, when we talk about public procurement and road construction, you say that road construction is more expensive because of perceived corruption cases. And when we are sitting here in the public procurement debate and arguing against each other, they say that it should be taken into account that, in the case of public procurement, not only the bid price but also the maintenance period, the total life-cycle cost should be taken into account in order to ensure that there are as few cases in Hungary as possible such as the investment of Metro 4 where the planned costs and the final execution and maintenance costs are not in a thank-you relationship. And, you know, Congresswoman, you are the party that regularly talks about how Brussels abuses and withdraws rights from different Member States of the European Community. We agree on this, but at a time when Brussels is committing a specific infringement of not paying the money due to Hungary after a last year's agreement, you do not bother to travel to Brussels and to the European Commission to protect it, but you see only this opportunity to try to find a catch on the government. Congresswoman! If you want to improve your statistics, you will definitely succeed, but allow me to correct it on that issue. I don't think what you're saying is that you can't steal road construction money, because in Hungary there are a lot of roads to be renovated, I'm saying that no money can be stolen in Hungary and no political reason can be found legitimate. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, my God!]] , which is in the hands of the opposition that it is not in the interests of the Hungarian people, but in the interests of political gain; even if you are sitting here on behalf of the Public Machine, and even when your criticism is not done where you should be, and in the Hungarian Parliament you are only improving your statistics. [[14.40]] Talk to each other, Congresswoman. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Secretary of State!]] What the LMP has been empowered to do with its own voters. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-60	I'll ask Mrs. Group Leader if she'll accept the answer.
u2016-09-26-61	Secretary of State, your answer is completely unacceptable. The LMP is lobbying to use EU funds for the benefit of the public and people. He is lobbying so that most of the EU money will not be stolen by you. He is lobbying to ensure that EU projects are not priced or raised to a very high level, which is basically taken into private pockets. It is lobbying so that EU funds do not increase private wealth. You don't want to acknowledge this, but that's what's happening. You are forgetting that EU funds should be closely monitored. When we look at the institutional system of EU grants, there is not only a problem with evaluations, it is not only that applications have been evaluated for weeks, months, but the problem is that checks on applications are extremely weak. It is a shame that the European Union should notice where the frauds take place. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's time for you to do it.
u2016-09-26-62	Congresswoman didn't accept the answer. Please vote in favour of this House. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 25, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Alpár Gyopáros, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister with the title of the referendum on 2 October. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-09-26-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary is preparing for a quota vote this week. The referendum is necessary because the Brussels Commission wants to impose on Member States an automatic migrant distribution mechanism without an upper limit, according to which the EU institutions decide to disperse immigrants on the basis of a mathematical formula. The Hungarian people are preparing to say no and clearly state that they are the only ones who can decide who they want to live with, and no one can say that for them. There will be a referendum not only in Hungary on Sunday. Allex is a picturesque, 2,500 enthusiastic peaceful little settlement in the south of France, but it is feared that it will not be for long. The French Government has announced that it intends to relocate 12,000 immigrants from a migrant tent camp in Calais called the Jungle, 50 of them to Allex. And the people of Allex don't want them to set up a migrant colony, and they have every reason to do so. Immigration has serious security risks. In France, 238 have lost their lives in terrorist attacks committed by first-generation or second-generation immigrants in the last year and a half. The French Minister for the Interior stated that there is almost no day for security forces to stop another assassination. Allex defends himself: his mayor initiated the announcement of the referendum the moment the central government's plan came to light. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There should be no illusions: in every country where a large number of migrants have arrived, they have been scattered. The danglers of the referendum knew this very well, but they listened about it, who wanted to let migrants in, because they also want to disperse them: dispersal is a direct consequence of admission. On the basis of a statement by Martin Schulz, left-wing cities can prepare to install migrants in secret with Brussels, by deceiving citizens. [[Why are you lying again? How can Brussels make a deal?!]] Fortunately, this will not be decided by the left-wing city leaders, but by the citizens, who can say no to forced resettlement in the referendum this Sunday. Dear Secretary of State, Help us figure out where the left wants to disperse the migrants. [[Interview from the ranks of Fidesz: Szeged.]] And what are the risks of forced resettlement in individual settlements? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-64	I give Mr. Csaba Dömötör the opportunity to answer.
u2016-09-26-65	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Where exactly the left would like immigrants to be relocated, you have to ask them about it. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Where are the bondsmen going?]] But a certain number of left-wing politicians took a stand for resettlement quotas prior to this misrepresentation. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the bondsmen?]] I would also like to draw your attention to the words of Csaba Horváth, a socialist leader in Budapest, who said earlier: "Please send a message to all immigrants who live here, you must not be afraid, Budapest will take you in. It is characteristic that not so long ago even two left-wing parties collected signatures along with quotas. In its interpellation, you were also talking about the regional impact of the quota package. This is justified because international experience shows that the feet of resettlement programmes reach settlements, in this sense the referendum of 2 October will hold its place as 3200 local referendums. International examples show that if Brussels leaders do not take into account citizens' concerns, they are politicalising against their will, sooner or later referendums will take place at local and national level. Honourable Congressman, As we have seen from the speeches before today's opposition agenda, many people are still taking the fact of the Brussels quota package away. They do so despite the fact that many decisions have been made to establish a mandatory procedure for the distribution of immigrants, and if someone does not wish to participate, there will be fines and even family reunifications would be easier. On this basis, thousands of immigrants would also be deployed in Hungary. And it is very typical, it is very talkative that when they asked the European Commission spokesperson if the European Commission would withdraw the quota package, it was with great simplicity that they had no idea. I think it is now up to the Member States to reject this failed quota package. I'd say it's our turn. That is why the government initiated a referendum. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] If millions of people take part in this referendum, there will certainly be political consequences. If enough people leave, the result will be binding not only on the current government but also on the next governments, because we believe that only the Hungarian people can decide who they want to live with, and we want all future governments to respect this principle, if not for other reasons, because it is the future of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-66	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. You have a rejoinder from the congressman, I give you the floor.
u2016-09-26-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent times, wherever I have been in my constituency, I have found that people living in settlements are aware that if we have to accept the countless illegal immigrants who Brussels is forcing us to do so, it will also affect their settlements. Therefore, many people stopped and indicated that they did not ask for their own settlements from these immigrants. In fact, mayors, many mayors have contacted me recently, indicating that they do not want a refugee camp, a second Calais from their own town or even their own village, because they are aware that this poses a serious terrorist risk and a security risk to their settlement. I hope that on 2 October we will be able to say no to Brussels' crazy plans as one person, and if we do, our settlements will not become migrant camps. Of course, I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: his employees' vulnerability and increasing domestic problems in the labour market. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2016-09-26-69	Mr. President, thank you very much. Secretary of State, it is worth looking at the processes that have taken place since 2012. On 1 January 2012, the date on which the new Labour Code was implemented was introduced. Technically, we can talk about disbanding or loosening the protection of workers' rights. Of course, at the time of the creation of the law, you talked about flexibility and safety together. There is flexibility, because employers have been given a chance, a chance to pull another skin off workers, but the issue of security is trapped; rather than strengthening and increasing security, workers have become more vulnerable. There are interesting examples within Europe, now it doesn't matter whether we are making relations between France and Hungary or comparing them with other countries. It is virtually visible and it can be concluded that while the average employment burden and the time interval in other countries are smaller, in Hungary it is almost double that, as in other countries, the issue of ordering extraordinary work has also been re-regulated, obviously not in the interests of workers. [[14.50]] To the disadvantage of workers, they also provided virtually negative opportunities for discrimination, or even the resignations, in a worse word, from your point of view, made it easier to fire, and created a situation on the Hungarian labour market that people have been suffering for five years, and it is not by accident that 600 thousand people who have been working abroad, or more work, have left this country in six years. With regard to labour inspections and safety at work, it can be seen that the detection of irregularities in the case of the workers under investigation is around 70%, and they cannot even comply with the system of relaxed rules, as many of them have also been kicked out of this system, the labour supply system. Look, in Western Europe, employers' and employees' representatives have a place and weight, and you are trying to make this process impossible in Hungary. Rather, what I am asking is when labour market problems and existing problems will be solved. How, how do you think about strengthening the driver's license system of employee representatives? And last but not least, what do you want to do for workers, not to leave this country, but to work at home? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-09-26-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-26-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I would like to remind you that, since the change of regime, employment has never been as high and unemployment in Hungary is as low as it is now. With these data, or with this sentence, I can deny all that you have described earlier in your interpellation as disadvantages, because if they had worked as a disadvantage, employment or other employment-related areas would have suffered a disadvantage, or even their indicators would have deteriorated. Between 2010 and 2016, the economic activity of the 16-64-year-old population increased at the fastest pace in Hungary, but we are also among the first four countries in terms of employment growth, while the number of people employed has decreased in nine Member States since 2010. In Hungary, as you know, the unemployment rate is 5%, the fifth lowest in the European Union. When establishing the Labour Code, the government's main objective was to increase employment by creating flexibility and, I stress, a proper balance of security. These latter aspects are duly enforced by the law by laying down binding legal provisions to protect the interests of workers, which must not be derogated from. Secondly, I would like to mention that, in line with international labour law standards and European Union law, it allows for derogations in agreement or collective agreement between the parties, i.e. within the framework of an agreement. Also in the subject of the Member, such as working time and rest periods, there are largely cogent provisions. The main provisions applicable to the organisation of working time may not be derogated from or only for the benefit of the worker. Labour law has not reduced corporate wages either, on the contrary, the sector has increased gross wages by 3-4 percent on average in 2013-2015 and by 5-6 percent this year. As a result of zero-close inflation and tax reductions, real wages also gradually and continuously increase significantly in the competitive sector. The increasing demand for skilled labour is forecasting, as it is already showing, that wage growth will continue in the future. On the issue of infringements of the functioning of interest organisations, I would like to point out that, as of 1 January 2012, they were removed from the scope of labour control, given that disputes between employers and interest representatives can, in my opinion, be resolved more effectively in the labour court than in the official organisation system. I would also like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that there are regular consultations within the framework of the competitive sphere and the permanent consultation forum of the Government. The government accordingly consults the social partners on current labour market issues on labour law. This trial is continuing right now. There's a meeting next week. On this basis, it can be said that the amendment of the Labour Code to strengthen the interests of workers and the rights of interest representatives is not justified at the moment. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-72	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-73	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. It is necessary not only to consult, but also to adopt proposals. The principle of tripartiteism must not only be spoken but also practiced. In terms of employment, unemployment, people need to be fooled with unmanaged statistics. Look, in this country, 2.2 million people are earning a minimum living, almost one and a half million people earn a minimum wage. National Tax and Customs, do a little research. What are you talking about? There is almost no skilled labour in this country because they are leaving the country. It's a shame what they did to the labor code in 2012. I'll only give you two numbers in terms of labour checks, and then think about it. The number of fatal accidents in 2012 was 52 and in 2015 was 84. That's a 64 percent increase. Nothing is precious to you, not even people's lives. It's a shame what you're doing. They destroy systems, and they don't give people the opportunity to earn decent, living money. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-09-26-74	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 27 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Ms Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy with a title on the increase in wages of local government officials. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister for the Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation on behalf of Mr Tibor Pogácsás. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-09-26-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr State Secretary, I would like to begin by quoting a letter from a mayor who summarises his thoughts on the situation of our settlements below. The government is implementing a metropolitan reorganization concept for local governments and 3 thousand settlements are raging. It should be achieved - continues - that the government terminates the subordination of the management of municipalities under the Treasury and the total emptying of small settlements by linking the limitation of the number of self-government offices to the number of 5 000 inhabitants instead of 2 thousand. The equality and career model of all public servants should be a constitutional issue. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We know that, in the case of so-called state officials, the wage increase has already been partially made, but unfortunately it has affected only a thin layer of public service workers. Tens of thousands of people are still waiting for the government to finally hear their complaint and finally correct the frozen salary fund and the wage bill. In fact, over the last eight years, public servants' wages have lost 30 percent of their real value, so it can be said that both the MSZP-SZDSZ and the Fidesz government have servedfully implemented IMF dictatorships, i.e. significantly reducing public service workers' wages. At present, after 33 years of work, an officer with a secondary education earns a guaranteed minimum wage. Now, in September, MKSZ has been on strike for the second time for the wage increase that we have demanded. Their request is entirely justified, and it is not unrealistic or unfulfilled. In the 2016 budget law, but also in the 2017 budget law, there is a reserve, a transferable amount from which this problem could be dealt with immediately. I am convinced that, without consulting trade unions, the government, as laid down in the Finance Act, will grant the municipalities from January 2017 the right to decide on the basis of remuneration, only a supplementary act. It's a beauty patch for a scar that's about to get old. Larger economically stronger settlements could have used their right to pay some of their officials away from the pay table. Thus, the above-mentioned government favor is in no way a real solution. At the same time, the government's intention to dismantle and empty small settlements is an effective service, since it is slowly impossible to find a co-worker in the common offices of the villages, who is willing to slavide for food wages. I'm asking you, when are you finally willing to pay the local government civil servants? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.00]]
u2016-09-26-76	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-09-26-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There have been several discussions here between you and the government, or between us, on whether or not there is a change in the budgetary freedom of the municipalities. In the first part of the interpellation we have just heard, you repeat the allegations that the government would limit the budgetary freedom of the municipalities in any way. I must repeat what I have said many times, the Government has no intention of restricting the budgetary freedom of the municipalities in any form. The Treasury does not interfere in any form with the local government, the government's budget regulation. How a settlement manages, what form the settlement chooses for the development of the settlement and what tasks it performs depends on the decisions of the body of representatives. I do not want to repeat the measures by which we have improved the management possibilities of municipalities. Here, I think it is the most important, and I think it is clear that the acceptance of the municipal debt and the annual support to the non-indebted municipalities, the programme that ends this year, will be completed. However, we clearly agree that, due to a completely wrong fiscal and economic policy direction, the country was forced to freeze the wages of those working in the public sector and in the public sector by 2008. The country is in a very difficult situation. However, the turn of economic policy following the change in government in 2010 has taken its toll, and it can be seen that our room for manoeuvre is also increasing with the growth of the economy. Since 2012, both gross and net earnings can continue to grow in the public sector. The development of net earnings was also influenced in a positive direction by the fall in personal income tax and by tax incentives for family members. But in 2014 and in the current period, the introduction of public service career models and the continuation of programmes that have already started, which create a sense of security for both workers and employers, will enable the future of the worker to be predictable in the coming years. It is indisputable that public service career models were first introduced or introduced by the government in the sectors where the employer's competence, employer's responsibility is directly linked to the government and where the government has implemented the necessary reforms and reforms in the sector. In the local government sphere, the government defined the number of employees at the time of the adoption of the task funding in 25,000 people and provided the staff and the material conditions for this. In order to improve the wage situation of employees in the local government sector, we decided, when adopting the 2017 budget, that municipalities could raise the wage base that has been in force so far and determine wages on this basis. But it also includes that municipalities have had the opportunity to hijack workers' wages and establish personal wages in the light of benchmarking. However, we agree that further steps are needed to improve the wage situation of those working in the fiscal sphere. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-26-78	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2016-09-26-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, we agree on many things, as you have said, which is why I cannot accept your answer. And indeed, it is an old debate between us that it would be good to settle the fate and wages of these 37,000 people. You just announced that out of this 37,000, you're probably counting on $25,000. I think they couldn't have gotten worse today, that's for sure. Unfortunately, it is also a fact that the IMF pact, which has been concluded by the MSZP-SZDSZ government, remains in force to this day, and although the current government has said good-bye and we have already put in the gate after the IMF, we are still slavishly implementing all the dictators to this day. So, unfortunately, I can't accept that answer. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-80	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 21 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Defence:. What is the significance of the activation of the Element integrating NATO Forces in Hungary? It's an address. It is for Congressman Mátyás Firtl.
u2016-09-26-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The main topic of the NATO Summit in Wales in September 2014 was the search for effective responses to the challenges of a changed European security environment. In the declaration to close the meeting, the nations confirmed their determination to guarantee the territorial integrity of the Alliance and the security of the Member States. As part of the contingency action plan and the contingency action plan, the NATO Force Integration Units, which were set up in the first wave in Bulgaria, Estonia, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania and Romania, were created to coordinate and support the tasks of this period. At the meeting of NATO Defence Ministers in February 2015, the Minister of Defence of Hungary and the Slovak Minister of Defence announced that they were asking for the establishment of the NFIU in the two countries. On 17 February 2015, the Permanent Representatives to the North Atlantic Council confirmed the motion to set up the NFIU by a joint letter. At the meeting of NATO Defence Ministers in October 2015, the Defense Ministers of the Association decided that, like the small NATO headquarters already established in the Baltic Republic, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria, a forward-looking management element of some 40 persons would be created in Hungary and Slovakia. In November 2015, the primary tasks needed to set up the NFIU were defined. On 15 January 2016, the commander of the NFIU was appointed and, following preliminary selections, the uploading of the NFIU with the staff started on 1 February 2016. In Székesfehérvár, the main dates for the establishment of the NATO headquarters in Alba Regia barracks are: 1 July 2016 to achieve national readiness, 1 September 2016 to activate the NFIU, 1 January 2017 to reach NATO initial readiness, 1 July 2017 to achieve full readiness. Dear Secretary of State, In connection with the above, I ask the Secretary of State whether the NFIU was activated on 1 September and what the first experiences were. Can later deadlines be kept, and what is the significance of Hungary's accession to the NFIU? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.10]]
u2016-09-26-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-26-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as Mr President said, the NFIU integration element set up as part of the contingency action plan was activated in Székesfehérvár on 1 September 2016 according to the timetable. This means that, from this day forward, this organisation will no longer function as a national element, but as an international military headquarters in a changed legal status, so as of 1 September, it will carry out its tasks of ensuring the collective protection of NATO under the direct direction of NATO senior agencies. The importance of activation as an act is that this organisation is subject to the European High Command of NATO. Operations management shall be carried out by the commander of the North-East Multi-national Corps Command. In the second wave, this organizational element was activated by the family of elements that integrate NATO forces, thus becoming complete with the Hungarian and Slovak NFIU, and thus they operate in 8 countries, whose primary purpose is to guarantee the territorial integrity and security of the alliance. During this short period of time, during the short operation of the NFIU, we cannot yet talk about operational experience, but we can say that the Hungarian Defence Forces carried out and performed the tasks related to the preparation at an appropriate pace and in the required quality. The experience gained so far will be processed, evaluated and a validation, evaluation NATO exercise will take place next spring, where it will be officially assessed whether the organisation is fully prepared to perform the tasks. If you look at the experience so far, the quality of professional work, the preparedness and dedication of the staff can be assessed as extremely high, and this also applies to soldiers from both the Hungarian and the other NATO countries. As regards the deadlines, on 1 January 2017, the organisation will reach NATO initial standby and NATO full standby as of 1 July 2017. The fact that Hungary, in agreement with the NATO contingency action plans, can play an active role and actively contribute to the successful completion of the alliance's tasks by setting up and operating an NFIU, while not threatening anyone, but also playing a strengthening and connecting role, I believe that it is in the interests of all of us, Hungary and its allies. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-84	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-09-26-85	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. It also shows how important the government considers federal policy, the task of federal policy that NATO's obligation places on us. But allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to thank the Hungarian Defence Forces for what they have done in the past for Hungary's security on behalf of my group. Similarly, it is very important to remember that within or beyond the NATO obligation, when our soldiers carry out mission tasks in different countries, we can also stress here that we should thank them for the fact that they are really trying to guarantee the safety of their people in areas such as Hungary. Therefore, I can say once again in Parliament, I think I should say, on behalf of all of us, thank you for the missionary activity that the Hungarian Defence Forces are undertaking and doing. Thank you for your answer, I accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why don't they fix the flaws of poor experimental textbooks for free? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-87	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Two years ago, a major student experiment was launched. With the participation of more than 1,500 schools and more than 100,000 students, OFI, the Institute for Education and Development, developed experimental textbooks at a cost of billions. From the beginning, when this started, the LMP indicated that there would probably be problems with such a student experiment, and unfortunately we were right. Based on the feedback from the schools, there are very serious problems with these textbooks. On the one hand, these publications are largely confusing and tangled, and on the other hand they are teeming with errors and inaccuracies. You can see they've been developed at a seizure rate. The LMP also found that OFI books did not undergo any authorisation procedure or certification process. The government bypassed the mandatory procedure for previous textbooks and forced these poor books on schools. Thirdly, OFI's own research revealed that four fifths of teachers are reluctant to teach from these books. Recently, it has also been discovered that OFI will have these poor quality experimental textbooks corrected from HUF 800 million, which means that the repair costs millions of HUF per textbook. According to the LMP, this is nonsense and absolutely outrageous. If someone sells a defective product, the minimum is to fix the errors for free. Where is consumer protection at a time like this? Do we have to use something, pay billions for it, and then we pay for the mistakes? The least that OFI can do is make poor textbooks and fix mistakes free of charge. But the best thing would be for the government to stop this entire student experiment at last, the experiment failed, the failed textbooks had to be removed from circulation, and the best solution seems to be to bring back the previously proven favorite textbooks. It would also be time to name the person responsible for this process, which contains a lot of professional errors and wasted billions, which should obviously be responsible. Or do you think it's okay to keep throwing billions of dollars out the window for completely useless improvements? Dear Secretary of State, Does the government finally realize that this major student experiment has failed? Will they finally take out the wasted experimental textbooks? Are textbooks previously well-established and everyone's favorite textbooks put back on the textbook list? Also, if someone has put on the market a lot of publications that are full of mistakes, why are they paying him another 800 million to correct the mistakes? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2016-09-26-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-26-89	Thank you very much. I do not want to stop the applause surrounding the speech by saying: [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But, honourable Member, I would also say that this fight will be the end, and you will now use everything on the opposition side. We can expect that the issues that are critical of the new textbook system will be closed, as business players who have previously made a very good profit-based study bookmaking, this year, this academic year is the last opportunity to return, because their previous permits will run out nicely and slowly over the year, and they can either put pressure on the government through opposition parties to let them and their profits back into the textbook market or not. As we have talked about this many times before, in the previous system, when there was no state presence in textbook publishing, the greatest profit could not be recorded by the publisher, not by the company who published most of the books, but by the person who gave up only 6 percent of the total textbook publishing opportunity, but the most profitable 6 percent of the profits he had, because with the least invested energy, the largest number of copies, he could achieve the greatest profit, and his marketing strategy also sought to do so. If we put the mosaic cubes together in this area, we can see that the opposition parties have indeed become hallmarks of this old system. You said at the beginning of your speech - you said more things that did not correspond to reality. One of them was that they didn't like it, they didn't want to order these textbooks by teachers. In 2014, 1.1 million, 2.8 million such textbooks were ordered in schools, but this is what they teach. Obviously, who wants to bring back the old profit-based system, when serious billions could be pulled out of the textbook system every year, he certainly says such things, but on the one hand, we are making textbooks free for more and more years each year, and on the other hand, we managed to reduce the cost of textbooks by about 40 percent. If your proposal, which is not only a proposal from you, but also a proposal from all the opposition parties - they are very strangely coincidental at times; if your proposal were to be accepted by the government, it would lead to an immediate textbook explosion, as the 40 percent drop in prices that occurred in previous years would surely come back. [[15.20]] And obviously, since the profits of these companies have been down in the last few years, they would put even more on it, so I'm sure there would be more than 40 percent of the immediate textbook price explosion that would happen in the case of your proposal. Now, in 176 cases, there are so-called experimental textbooks. You do know that, honourable Member, you did not want to say in your speech that such a new generation textbook will not be created in a year, but a textbook will be created within a year that will go through the entire authorisation procedure. The same is the case with the Education Office, there are also external investigators, so it goes completely through the procedure it has to go through, so it is not true for you to claim that there was no authorisation procedure here. Here, of course, we had it, otherwise it wouldn't have gotten in the hands of the students, but this plus textbook development is followed by a three-year period, until hundreds of teachers report back from the experience of thousands of students what parts are the strengths of the textbook, which are the parts that need to be changed, and thus the full finalization of the textbook is delayed for three years. But not because textbook authors couldn't complete the textbook for the first time, and not because they wouldn't go through the entire licensing procedure, but because we really want to create a new generation, modern, more advanced book, which is not only written by two or three people, but also the opinion of students, which is why it takes three years. The surplus, the money you referred to, is about half, almost half, of which will go to the wages of teachers, the extra wages of teachers who use these books, and they will tell textbook authors what needs to be changed. Grades 1, 5 and 9 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This was done in 2016 for 35 publications, which will continue in the years to come. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2016-09-26-90	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-09-26-91	Mr President, The speech by the honourable Secretary of State deserved iron applause in the '50s, too, at a time when profits and similar terms seemed to be something to be persecuted and condemned during the strongest periods of communism. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you know that the purpose of the state and I don't think the government is to pursue any kind of profit. Obviously, there should be some kind of balance between private publishers and public regulations. Instead of looking for this, instead, they publish books that are of inadequate quality. [[It's constant noise.]] Mr President, I asked Mr. Secretary of State three questions about the publication of the books, about why they paid HUF 800 million to develop these bad books instead of developing them for free. Mr Secretary of State has not answered these questions, I cannot accept the answer. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You'd take the teachers' salary.]]
u2016-09-26-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: Hungary was re-qualified. What does this mean for the country's economy? It's an address. Mr Mihály Witzmann has the floor.
u2016-09-26-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Six years ago, Hungary's Government launched its financial stability and economic growth programmes to restore Hungary. Accordingly, the country's finances have been restored. We have repaid the huge amount of IMF credit taken up by socialist governments, and the economic recovery has finally taken place. After all this, we are now at a point where all the prestigious international credit rating agencies have a positive view of our country's economic performance. A few days ago, on 16 September exactly, the Standard & Poor - s credit rating agency, with a long-awaited and completely legitimate decision, classified the Hungarian government bonds into the investment category. The positive assessment clearly indicates that the performance of the Hungarian economy is already recognised by the strictest rating agencies. This historic step is also of particular importance because, at the end of 2011, it was precisely the Standard & Poor and the second credit rating agency that classified Hungary as the so-called "bóvli" category. With this decision, it started a major problem, as it cut off the Hungarian sovereign debt market from investors whose business policy did not allow or allow investment in this type of sovereign debt. Of course, we are very happy about the upgrading, but the truth is that the favourable growth-enhancing trends of the Hungarian economy have been on the market for years. It is also clear that the auctions of Hungarian government bonds are carried out with extremely high demand and low returns. In addition to making a decision on ratings, the credit rating agency also stressed in its report that Hungary's GDP could increase on average by around 2.5 per cent over the period 2016-2019 instead of the previous 2 per cent. In their published report, they acknowledged, among other things, that the positive balance of payments had significantly reduced the vulnerability of both the country and the domestic financial sector through a strong reduction in the foreign exchange ratio of the public debt and the self-financing programme. According to their expectations, in addition to current developments, the debt-to-GDP ratio may decrease to below 70% by 2019, in line with the expectations of the national economy. Dear Secretary of State, The qualification clearly demonstrates and confirms that Hungary is on the right track, and, in view of the country's financial stability and growth indicators, both the European Union and international financial institutions are confident about the further development of our country's financial and economic situation. In the light of these facts, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what it means to qualify for the country's economy. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-26-94	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-26-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, in addition to the Standard & Poor, Fitch Ratings also rated Hungary in May and classified it as a recommended investment category, which reflects the growing image of our country's market analysts and demonstrates the positive performance of the Hungarian economy over the past years. As an important benefit, with the two ratings now in place, public finances can be sourced from a much wider institutional circle and under more favourable conditions. In other words, the yield reduction effect of additional demand not only reduces interest expenditure on the budget but also improves the stability of debt financing. In addition, the two ratings further strengthen not only financial investors but also real economic investors in the fact that Hungary is worthy of investment, new investments, development and expansion of the site, so they will consider these issues in their decision. The inclusion in the investment category has been timely for several years. There is practically no macro-management indicator in recent years in which we have not achieved a trendy improvement. As mentioned above, the balance of payments generates a persistently significant surplus, a balanced economic growth rate, including Standard & Poor, has improved its outlook from 2 per cent to 2.5 per cent, which is very rare. Disciplinary public finances; for years there has been a budget deficit below 3 per cent, and more than that, it is expected to be able to go below 2 per cent now. Government debt has fallen into a downward trend. The GDP rate decreased from 80 per cent to 75 per cent and a further decrease is expected. The unemployment rate in Hungary is low, since it decreased from almost 12 percent to about 5 percent. The rating surprised the market to a certain extent. Not just now, it was expected, a little later, but interestingly, the market has already priced this category of investment, so many foreign investors are expected to purchase sovereign debt after the downgrade, since returns are significantly reduced. This is much more easy for the public budget and significantly reduces interest expenditure. But in addition to spending the budget, it is also very important that it shows a credible economic policy towards the international world, towards investors. Economic policy can be calculated in Hungary, with the economic environment, low deficits, low interest rates and falling taxes. [[15.30]] I think that not only will it bring a direct reduction in expenditure to the budget and thus an additional resource to the country, but also by increasing investment, increasing the number of jobs, thus also making our qualification a major part of strengthening the economy. The aim is to enable the government to maintain this in the long term, not only to maintain it, but also to make further improvements in economic growth and strengthening the economy. That's the government's goal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-96	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-09-26-97	Thank you very much. Of course, I accept Mr State Secretary's reply, because in fact, as I have just mentioned, a new economic policy has indeed emerged in Hungary since 2010, which has had many critics and many negative criticisms both within and outside our borders. However, I find that by walking through the settlements of the Somogy County 4 district, which I represent, for example, the statistics of Siófok and Tabi district areas, there are tangible signs of this new economic policy, which shows clear progress from the macro-economic point of view, in the countryside as well. The number of construction projects is increasing, the number of investments, people are able to put aside a little bit, put a little more aside, whether for holidays or other investments, and what is very happy is that significant progress has been made in employment as well. I ask Mr State Secretary or through Minister of State, the Government of Hungary to continue this type of economic policy in the future in order to further improve the living conditions of Hungarian people effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Why are they deliberately destroying the Hungarian countryside? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2016-09-26-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I wrote it down as the last question, because it has to be said in advance, that you are not running away from answering, are you, Minister? Well, he ran away again, so I'm gonna have to ask you a thing or two. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: How many times have you answered for Graf?]] Of course, there are some things in this that I obviously wanted more from him, but maybe he asked him to answer. I asked several written questions about Hortobágy, Kishantos, including how it exists after the Curia has decided that the state and Mezővidék Bt. The applicant is Kishantosi Nonprofit Közhasznú Kft. There was a time when they still didn't do anything. Instead of giving me a normal answer, I was taught, Mr. Secretary. I don't need to be taught, I think that sometimes the ministry needs education, because I simply have no idea on what basis these decisions are being held back. Moreover, there is no meaningful explanation for how they could lease to a construction contractor an area that had been under organic farming for 20 years. If you're trying to give me an intelligent answer, I'd appreciate it, but beyond the fact that the contract is over, I'd like to expect a more serious answer. How, for example, could the land lease in Hortobágy happen that a merchant who had never been a farmer had received hundreds of hectares of land, who had gone so far as to bring anthrax into the catering? Then it wasn't enough, they hadn't taken the land away from him yet, just the second time, when anthrax was introduced not only to the settlement, but also to the settlement. Secretary of State, according to the locals, they didn't take it because he was funding the Fidesz campaign. There will be some answers to that: do you really think that everyone can do anything and know what to do with this profession? We should also think about the fact that there are tens and hundreds of millions of forints, EU support for friends, that there is no trailer behind the coffin, Mr. Secretary of State. So it's unnecessary to put resources into people who already have one, and it should not be taken from people who do not have one, including Hortobágy, where the police have now stated that there has been a crime, because very many people have obtained serious land with fictitious addresses, and then have obtained serious state aid with these land. It would be nice if they took the Kehi report seriously now, made it public, everyone could see it, it's an indictment, Mr. Secretary. They don't care, they explain the certificate. What I'm wondering is how long this condition will last. When will Kishantos be compensated, when will the real control of the use of rented land begin? They haven't checked anything on Hortobágy in three years. When will the Kehi report be implemented, and when will the government land be taken back from unsuitable buddies? I would like a firm answer to that, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-26-100	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bitay Márton Örs responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-26-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He mentioned a number of topics, and we generally do not agree on land matters. I'll try to answer your questions. First of all, I would like to make it clear that, either in the land lease application or in the land sale program, we sent the Hungarian farmers to the ground and did not take anything from anyone. [[Zoltán Pride: Nana!]] In the lease applications, the maximum case could be that the fixed-term contract of the previous applicant has expired, so a new tender has been launched. The same was the case with Fejér County Ltd., mentioned by you, whose contract expired, we didn't take anything from him, so I don't understand his idea of compensation, because if I have a fixed-term contract that simply reaches the final date, then I'm not entitled to any compensation. In connection with Hortobágy National Park, he mentioned a specific tenant who was opposed to why we had not taken action. I would like to mention, honourable Member, with respect, that this tenant no longer has a lease with the national park. There were problems, we ordered a check on the problems, and the audit found that there were real problems, so about 250 tenants with whom we had a new contract were terminated in this case. As you mentioned, for example, at Kishantosi Kft. in Fejér County, we also took action at the deposit company where the final court ruling stated that, in the case where he otherwise won 27 hectares, it was not a construction contractor, but a new deposit company, and there was a problem with one of his statements, and in the end, the court said that he could not have won this tender. But the court didn't say that the tender procedure was wrong, the court didn't say in its judgment that the state had taken anything from anyone, but said that in one of the ten new estates, on this particular 27 hectares, there was a statement from the applicant that it didn't actually fill out. Accordingly, after his responsibility, after it came to light, we terminated the contract with him. But I would like to mention, since we are talking about leases, that in 2010, there were about 600 tenants of state land, and you obviously know that as State Secretary. He now owns over 7,500 tenants. In the land sale program we are slowly reaching the number of 30,000, 30,000 Hungarian farmers could buy state land, compared to the fact that there are 100,000 farmers, it is a very serious result that one third of farmers were able to buy. I would also like to quote what you have already mentioned, that you have not responded to your written question, but you have mentioned your referendum initiative, which is dead. [[Zoltán Gógös: It is not dead, it is here in front of Parliament.]] I would also like to quote this to you, that it may be worth considering that a total of 200,000 valid signatures could not be collected nationwide as a result of the joint work of several parties in order to have a decisive referendum on land affairs. Dear Congressman, The fact is that you are arguing with the Hungarian farmers, not with us, because the Hungarian farmers are supporting the government's efforts with regard to the land sale programme or the Land for the farmers' programme. If you didn't support it, it would be an obvious sign that you easily collected 200,000 signatures and, if necessary, there would already be a referendum. But this was not the case, but the question of whether the signatory was even real for tens of thousands of signatures, because the data were not correct. In the last few days, at least watching their announcements, they progressed very quickly in the signatures, and we congratulated you on this, but unfortunately, the situation was that even the 200,000 valid signatures did not work out. Congressman, we wanted to support the Hungarian farmers with a programme for the farmers, as well as the land sale programme. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And we believe that the government and the farmers will work together in this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-102	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-09-26-103	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, if there were a university to explain in Hungary, you would be head of the department. [[Defiance.]] 'Cause again, he didn't answer anything other than pick up where he started the other day, and then he lied because he said that we had sheets that were photocopied. [[15.40]] You should have looked at that paper properly, because it says it's true that there's a line in the statistics, but the Election Office just wrote that it's zero. So I'd like you to clarify that, because it's a pretty serious accusation that anyone was working with photocopied arches. But that's not the point, Mr. Secretary. If you're so bold, call me at Hortobágy, I'll tell you where, in which area, a farmer's meeting, and discuss it with the people from whom the land was taken mass, they took the pastures used 30-50 years ago. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: They didn't have land, they just rented it.]] so that friends from Budapest, Nyíregyháza, Debrecen can get fictitious addresses. Mr. Secretary, that should be settled now, and that should be the answer to those people there, because there are thousands of animals with no pasture, and there are tenants with zero animals.
u2016-09-26-104	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-09-26-105	I don't accept the answer.
u2016-09-26-106	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 104 yes, 32 votes against, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Hungarian Zoltán and Gergely Farkas, representatives of Jobbik, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2016-09-26-107	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Every year, the untenable situation of domestic vineyards is a recurring problem both nationally and especially in a constituency that is mine, where agriculture plays an increased role. The buying-in prices, which do not cover the cost of grape production, often lose between HUF 30-40 per kilogram. In addition, this year, there is a serious shortage of workers, just like other fruit sectors. While the government talks about the recurring success of Hungarian wine, those who produce the wine's raw material with a year's hard work are struggling for their livelihood. Jobbik, together with, of course, welcoming every wine success achieved at domestic and international level, also draws attention to the outrageous situation of vineyards. The often unknown origin of the poor Italian wine and the wine forgery make the situation worse, as it significantly depresses buying-in prices. Even though the vineyards have protested on several occasions, despite the warning voice of the profession, you do not want or can not help them. But not only did the promised series of government steps fail in the vineyard sector. Every year we hear the legitimate complaints of the producers of apples, sour cherries, raspberry, melon, or many other fruits. Buyers operating as a mafia network and the inhumane business policies of the multi-chain have already destroyed many Hungarian families. And the often VAT-tricky import dumpling in the sector could not be contained. No wonder, then, that fewer and fewer people are engaged in fruit production. Returning to the situation in the vineyard, the National Council of Mountains also feels the problem. It is no coincidence that they tried to draw a national average buying-in price level between HUF 91-97. This, by the way, is still below last year's purchase price by 3 forints. However, it's better than what's going on in practice, which currently means 60-70 forints - that's how much they buy up the weight of the grapes. Producers have long demanded higher NAV and Nébih controls on the quality and sales tax of imported products. After all, no one is to say that any fruit produced abroad can be marketed at a price that is so much lower, together with transportation in Hungary, that it is well below the price level of domestic products! Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I am asking what changes are expected in the protection of domestic fruit producers. Do you accept the proposals of the National Council of Mountains in order to prevent thousands of decently working vineyards from being destroyed? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-108	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary István Nagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-26-109	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Allow me to strongly reject the fact that we do not want to help vineyards, we do not want to help fruit growers. The issue of wine products imported into Hungary for further processing or presentation has been continuously monitored by the Ministry of Agriculture since 2010. In this connection, I would like to draw my fellow Member's attention to the last amendment to our wine law, which has created the appropriate legal background for a stricter control of wine products from non-Hungary. Thanks to the consistent application of the legislation by the authorities, wine imports decreased by more than 50 percent by 2015. This positive trend continues this year, and I think that the 50 percent is a sufficient achievement that should be appreciated. Checks on imported wine products are ongoing. This year, the wine authority carried out 188 administrative checks and in 44 cases rejected an application for insufficient organoleptic characteristics. The estimated production in 2016 is around 2.7 million hectolitres. The Ministry, together with the National Council of Mountains, continuously monitors the development of vine prices. At a buying-in price lower than the average price of HUF 72-110, newly planted grape varieties may be purchased mainly in recent years. However, it should be added that new vine varieties can be grown at lower production costs and have a higher yield. The vine prices mentioned by my fellow Member are therefore not general at all. For years, the Ministry of Agriculture has been working with the National Council of Mountains, the National Agricultural Chamber, professional organisations and retailers to improve the market situation of gardening products such as fruits. We are negotiating with producers and several food trading companies on the possibilities of solving sales problems, and we are using Community agricultural marketing tools to promote domestic products. I think you saw more of these times this summer when the Ministry used these tools. The most effective tool to reduce the vulnerability of producers and increase their market bargaining positions is to strengthen producer cooperation. Therefore, the government considers its promotion as a priority objective. To this end, support for fruit and vegetables producer groups and producer organisations has been ongoing over the past year. Producers can obtain funds through two forms of support - planting and production-related support - which will allow for the creation of conditions for competitive production. As part of the installation aid, it is also possible to renovate unconventional non-economic plantations. Next year, the Ministry plans to transform production-related support, which will further encourage the support of intensive farmers. This will enable producers to produce with lower unit costs, greater efficiency, safer incomes, and the harmfully dominant role of industrial apples in relation to eating apples. The European Union indirectly supports producers through producer organisations. For producer organisations recognised in the fruit and vegetable sector, the Ministry of Agriculture provided a budget of HUF 150 million last year for the implementation of product marketing activities, which is still available to producer organisations in the coming years. I therefore ask the Member to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-110	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will ask Mr Zoltán Magyar to accept the State Secretary's reply. You have the floor.
u2016-09-26-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Very few of what we've heard here have been talking about various product marketings, which we've achieved so far in recent years, to promote the products of groups of companies that are close to you and the government around the world. That's all he's ever told me. You're talking about negotiations, and then you're going to make suggestions, and you're looking for tools - there's no time for that, Mr. Secretary of State. If we had heard this answer in 2010, we might have been able to accept it. Six years have passed, every year we hear the same pranks. Meanwhile, with 30-40 forints below the cost price, the producers get the extra pounds of the grapes, and 4-5 companies bring in this poor quality Italian wine, which is the most depressing of the prices, of which 2-3 are known in vineyards that they are related to Fidesz, the main problem here, Mr. Secretary of State. Therefore, they cannot and do not want to resolve this situation, and I cannot, of course, accept the answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if they will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply 105 yes, 28 no against, with 2 abstentions. [[15.50]] Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Where have the EU billions paid for the announcement by the Ministry of National Economy been? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor.
u2016-09-26-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In December 2015, the Ministry of National Economy paid HUF 837 million from EU funds to a logistics centre in Bátonyterenye, a railway station. With HUF 837 million, the investment that created little jobs was supported, and four jobs were already undertaken by this company, so they wanted to support it by HUF 200 million. The Ministry accepted the performance and this was officially implemented in May 2016. In the meantime, the design firm contracted with the successful tenderer made an announcement because the company Ökogroup did not pay them, and according to the designer, several circumstances indicated that it did not want to. At the end of last year, he also drew the Ministry's attention to the fact that in the area in question there was nothing in the world, but nothing is being built. Yet the Ministry conducted an irregularity procedure, but everything was in order. In 2014, during the parliamentary election campaign in Bicské, it was announced that a food factory, a microbiological laboratory, would be built to create new jobs between 400 and 600. The application was won by the company named Q Pharma, and soon it was handed over to Ökogroup Kft. This project received HUF 496 million of EU funds, the last instalment was paid by the Ministry of National Economy in May of this year, according to which the tender was implemented smoothly again this time. Regardless of each other, I've received several public signals that nothing has happened in these places in the burning world. I didn't want to believe it. I went down in person. Bicske's here for half an hour. It was easier. I don't know why anyone in the ministry didn't bother to get tired or say anything, Comrade Kovács, see if there's anything we can pay half a million forints. How did the payment happen here? We have a letter written by Minister Lazarus and he wrote that it is only possible to pay for anything, only for an investment that has been made by 31 December 2015 that has not been carried out, it cannot be paid if there is nothing there, there is no invoice, it cannot be paid. How is it possible, however, that even without laying a single brick, so much money was paid for non-existent investments? Has there been an internal investigation into this case? If so, who do you think is responsible for this confusion, where more than a billion forints flew to nothing? Have you been held accountable and filed charges, as I have already done?
u2016-09-26-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Rákossy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-26-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Ökogroup Zrt. under the operational programme for economic development for the 2007-2013 development period, has received EU funding for two projects. One of the investments, as you quoted the aid, is the predecessor of the company, Ökoenergy Kft. he has successfully applied and won it. Following the support decision following the peer review of the project proposal, the grant agreement was concluded in the summer of 2014. It is committed to establishing an intermodal logistics centre In the area of Bátony he was entitled to HUF 1.6 billion, to which he was entitled to 50 percent, i.e. HUF 837 million. In the other case, Ökoenergy Kft. Then, in spring 2015, Q Pharma Kft., with a grant contract, took over its planned logistics investment in Bicske of HUF 1.3 billion, to which he could use HUF 496 million. In order to ensure the full absorption of Union funds, i.e. the best possible use of them, it is common practice, which is allowed by both the European Union and domestic legislation, to take over the projects already granted but not otherwise operating for market conditions or other reasons, if the undertaking applying for the takeover meets the original tender conditions and meets the common will of the transferring parties and declares on this. I would like to provide the following information on the two investments and the background of the payments linked to them: in the 2007-2013 development period, beneficiaries had to submit to the institutional system accounts for the items paid up by 31 December 2015 so that they could be paid by the managing authority by the end of May of this year. The beneficiary is Ökogroup Zrt. Although it submitted its final accounts, this means only financial performance, which does not always correspond to the actual physical completion of the investment, the physical implementation of the investment, which will otherwise be possible by the EU rules no later than spring 2017. The payments indicated for the contested projects are part of a regulated process related to the closure of the 2007-2013 period for the maximum drawdown of Union funds. In order to draw as much funds from Brussels as possible, the managing authority has made payments to beneficiaries by mid-May 2016 to account for the closure schedule of the GOP to the European Commission. The domestic and EU rules allow us to pay the accounts that are in there and to monitor the implementation of the projects ex post using legal maintenance. According to the foregoing, this does not mean that we would consider these tendering processes to be completed, nor does it mean that the performance was accepted by the Ministry of National Economy or by the managing authority, only that the projects will be checked after the accounts are paid in, and the final on-the-spot check will be carried out. If the ex post audit shows that the projects have not or have not been carried out as required by the call for proposals, we will, of course, use the possibility provided by the legislation to carry out investigations in all cases, so-called irregularities procedures, and, where appropriate, recover the funds unduly used. On the basis of the findings of the audit of the accounts, such irregularities have been initiated in relation to the investments in question, which are currently underway. Once again, I would stress that the government has zero tolerance for misuse of subsidies. We will continue to look at the progress of the projects, and for which there is only suspicion of abuse, we will investigate the cases with all available means, and we will take action to recover funds unduly used, without voluntary repayment by means of civil law enforcement, and if there is suspicion of abuse, the IH will also take the necessary steps to prosecute the perpetrators. In Hungary, no public money, budget or EU can be used illegally, only for the benefit of the public good and the people, in full compliance with the legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In view of the importance of the subject, I allowed it to go on for 25 seconds. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-09-26-117	Thank you very much, Mr President, of course I cannot accept it; we have not been given any explanation as to how this could have happened. Forints 1.3 billion were paid for nothing. There's holes and the area's straightened out. How could that be? What bill was paid, what bill was accepted? - he won't tell me. They looked into it before, because I have it, and I have the report in my hand that was closed in December about an irregularity investigation, and they said that everything was all right. How did you think that in a completely empty area in a few months some angel would strike with his magic wand, and you would make this investment? I don't know. He didn't say who was responsible for this. I can't accept it, of course.
u2016-09-26-118	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Fidesz friends can sell Hungarian citizenship for money? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2016-09-26-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. The Hungarian residency bond programme has already been advertised by some intermediary companies in such a way that the purchase of the bond will soon enable them to acquire Hungarian citizenship. In these films, they describe very long the advantages that bond buyers will soon receive in terms of obtaining citizenship. Among other things, they will not have to take an exam in Hungarian. While you base your entire policy on fear and hatred, the circles linked to Fidesz break up billions from the deployment of rich migrants in Hungary. [[16.00]] In addition, in the end, the Hungarian people will pay the immigrants, because the person who buys the bond will lend a loan to Viktor Orbán's government, and he will immediately receive a residence permit for life in Hungary, and five years later he will receive his money back with interest, plus the interest paid from the Hungarian people's money is much higher than the market returns. And the billion-dollar profit linked to the distribution of bonds moves to fidesz buddies through offshore companies installed in the sale of settlement bonds. With this construction, 16,000 people, or a small town, including, unfortunately, criminals, have been brought to Hungary today. [[Intruders from Fidesz: No, it's not true! You have to name names.]] Their greed, it seems, knows no bounds. We can see that they are now planning to sell out Hungarian citizenship. There will certainly be a volunteer in Fidesz's ranks, as the last time Antal Rogán was not ashamed to represent the establishment business. Secretary of State, the Ministry of Interior is responsible for the development of laws governing immigration and citizenship. It will also be your responsibility if the right of establishment clinkers can sell Hungarian citizenship tomorrow. Since the Ministry of Interior did not do so, MSZP submitted a bill on the liquidation of the settlement business, a bill on the repayment of the extra profit received by the buddies' offshore companies. So I ask the Secretary of State: as well as the settlement bond business, the sale of citizenship will be done by assisting the Ministry of the Interior, or will the government be willing to stop the Fidesz buddies this time and support the MSZP proposal to terminate the settlement business? I continue to ask how much of this bond business Viktor Orbán receives. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-09-26-120	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-09-26-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I strongly reject Mrs. Congresswoman's unfounded accusations. The news you repeatedly refer to is a lie without foundation. We've already provided all the information from the Ministry of Interior. Last week, I gave an exhaustive answer to the same question, and we also sent an information document. Here is the answer to your specific questions. The conditions for obtaining citizenship are not intended to be facilitated by the government. There is no such proposal, there is no such agenda before the government. Hungary does not provide citizenship, but residence for investors buying the settlement policy. Applicants shall undergo a four-fold security filter, the national security investigation shall be carried out by the police, the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the Constitutional Protection Office, and shall cooperate with the Office for Immigration and Nationality. The settlement policy complies with EU rules, international practice. I ask the honourable Member to listen to the government and not to videotapes. About the seriousness of the commercial, allow me a thought. The congresswoman looked at the list of undertakings approved by the Parliament's Economic Commission, which are entitled to register a settlement policy. The company on the video is not one of them. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I also strongly reject your unfounded accusations about the Prime Minister. Madam Member, if you are interested in Hungary's security, the protection of the Hungarian people, the protection of the country, then take part in the referendum on 2 October and vote no. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, among them: Oh! Intercoms from Fidesz, among them: Good!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-26-122	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-09-26-123	I don't accept it. I think I'm discovering incoherence. [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks.]] These companies act as credible representatives of the Hungarian state - this, let us say, would be worth thinking about. I would like to point out that the 2012 Law [[Noise from the pro-government lines. Miklós Soltész: Yes or no?]] - which, by the way, has created this residency bond business - its justification still includes the possibility of citizenship. So I think you need to look for the problem. I would like to quote Viktor Orbán: " Europe has left the doors and windows wide open, and has even sent invitations to immigrants. Well, then I'd like to show you this. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] Otherwise, on 444 everyone can see [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, including, "Woe! The authentic 444!]] This invitation for immigrants, with the cooperation of the Hungarian government, is how offshore companies lure people into Hungary, with the following words:. Get a permanent residence for you and your family in the European Union! , enumerating all the discounts [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] how anyone can have visa-free access to the Schengen area. [[Miklós Soltész: Yes or no?]] This invitation was sent by the Orbán government. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The invitation is now for 16,000 people...
u2016-09-26-124	Congresswoman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-09-26-125	Among them, unfortunately, we're talking about criminals, while they're doing it for more than 12 billion. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] anti-immigration campaign. [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks. Dr. Répássy Róbert: Racist, xenophobic!]] Congratulations.
u2016-09-26-126	Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 29 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. It's an address. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor.
u2016-09-26-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The average man now knows the case as a fidesz corruption in Balmasújváros, one of the main characters of which was István Tiba, who was appointed Minister's Commissioner last summer by János Lázár, who, according to the news, was involved in this bribery. As you know, as a Balmazújváros metropolitan notary, Margit Veres took 5 million HUF in cash in private from an entrepreneur whose company received 180 million from the local government on the same day. The notary met with István Tiba, the mayor of that time, and gave him the money, which means the bribe ended up with the Minister's man. In addition, Margit Veres received a car as a gift from the said contractor. The case has been in court for a long time, whose suspect has promoted Margit Veres to mayor. As a Witness, István Tiba also confessed to the case, who defended himself with the fact that the money was only borrowed by a friend. By the way, this loan is not included in the 2012 declaration of assets; it was only replaced when I initiated a declaration of assets proceeding against it, more than three years after the declaration of assets was given. I note only in parentheses that, despite the numerous scandals in the declaration of assets, the main characters of which are fidesz politicians, you are unwilling to change the system of declaration of assets. Last time, Jobbik's proposal was swept off the table during the spring session, which would have sanctioned property declarations with incomplete or false data. They seem to like to fish in the mud in this area. Returning to the Tiba-Veres case, your mayor, Margit Veres, has been sitting on the defendant's bench for a long time in the middle of the summer. At this trial, the letter of John Lazarus, written to the court in question, was read. That's what he's trying to save the unsaveable in order to give your mayor a lighter sentence. Dear Secretary of State, To sum up: Using János Lázár's ministerial authority and relations, he intervenes in an ongoing court case and tries to save the mayor of corruption so that, in addition to bribery and abuse of office, the accusation of deception does not stop Veres. The minister intervenes. Do you think that's appropriate? You don't even want to keep an appearance of separation of powers? Wouldn't it be fair for you to get rid of your political criminals before it's too late and the voters judge you? I look forward to your full response. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-128	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-26-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Honestly, I'm embarrassed for a number of reasons. On the one hand, for the fourth time, he asked a question that, despite the fact that he could not take more than one and a half pages on his paper, he failed to say in his own words. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including, "Woe! Dr. Wind Bernadett: If you say it like that, then that's the problem.]] On the other hand, I am embarrassed because either I have to assume that there is a problem with his understanding of the text, because he has received four answers to this question, or I have to assume that the question itself is malicious, and he did have time during the summer break to draw a legal textbook and find the difference between the suspect and the witness. As much as the Member tries to repeat the name of Mr István Tiba, no one in Hungary has been accused of having wished or dreamed of doing so many times. In particular, Mr President, you do nothing but lie when you say that the Minister has had any influence on court proceedings. What exactly happened? A letter, a lawyer's request to the Minister, has been received and replied to a letter, Minister, like any citizen's request. You may have experienced this, either as a citizen or as a Member of Parliament, when you received an answer and gave you a brief fact about the case you are referring to. You're trying, Congressman, to paint the cases you're supposed to have with different markers, dark night hours and the like. I suggest that you update your knowledge of the environment, for example, the evening hours are not always dark during summer periods, since it will be dark much later, and you may also consider this if you want to colour up what you have to say. [[16.10]] When a man's integrity is questioned, Congressman, it is not only worth paying attention to what is being asked, but also to who is asking. On the basis of the news you've been made public, I don't think we need to give us a more serious answer in this regard. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-26-130	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-09-26-131	Of course, I cannot accept this cynical answer. I'm no longer surprised to hear from the Secretary of State with such cynicism. [[István Szilárd Németh: Do you talk about cynicism?]] You're not listening to me right now. That's not surprising. We've gotten used to it all these years. The suspect is your mayor, Margit Veres, good morning. Your mayor. [[In response to an intervention:]] Independent? Yeah, the mayor started with MSZP and Fidesz support, which is interesting. That's right, he's the suspect, he's your man. István Tiba's man is the suspect in this case. [[István Szilárd Németh: Again!]] And the money that the D.A. says your D.A. said was bribe money ended up with István Tiba. That's all we need. People aren't stupid. Don't make them look stupid, Mr. Secretary of State. Your government will drown in corruption. Voldemort, Flórian Farkas, we were talking about István Tiba. Please, Mr. Secretary, think about this and your own corruption...
u2016-09-26-132	Congressman, your answer...
u2016-09-26-133	... get rid of your affected politicians.
u2016-09-26-134	I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-09-26-135	I don't accept the answer. [[Crying from the benches of Jobbik: He said at the beginning! It's a lot of noise. A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-26-136	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 107 yes, 31 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Will unorthodox economic policy help this problem? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-09-26-137	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, We can say that Hungary is suffering from a record shortage of workers today. The number of sectors where there are serious difficulties is increasing, there are not enough professionals. Social care system, health care, professions requiring technical qualifications, trade, catering, and the number of these areas is increasing. One of the main causes of emigration and labour shortages is the low wage level. The government sees the public work programme as the biggest solution to the creation of a labour-based society, but this does not mean that young people will remain in Hungary, because - numbers are stubborn things - they cannot make a living from their current salary. Let's look at an example of the average rural start-up expenses who would like to come to Budapest to work! If you want to move to a studio alone, you will have to pay 110-130 thousand forints with rent. If you move to a two and a half-bedroom with your friends, you can get away with about 75,000 forints in rent. Let's watch the three-time meal. Eighty thousand forints, only 2500 forints a day. Phone bill with mobile internet is an average of HUF 8000, a BKV pass of 9500. With home internet cable, about 8,000 forints a month. You also need to save money for the purchase of chemicals and cosmetics, which is calculated at HUF 10 000. And then you just put a little clothes aside, 10 thousand forints a month to buy shoes, and we're right there that if you want to live alone in an apartment, it costs 255 thousand forints net. Two hundred and fifty thousand forints net! If, say, he lives with someone, it's 205,000 forints net. You know, these payments are just dreams for a lot of young people today. And then we didn't even talk about how if he had to pay for student loans, if he had a car, or if he had a hobby, he could do something to have a little fun, and he couldn't even go home to his parents because he couldn't make that much money. My question is that after six years of government, they don't think it's a shame that for a young young person to move to Budapest, the only solution is to either starve or leave this country. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-09-26-138	Thank you, Congresswoman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-26-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't want to answer you in the style and tone that you've finished your interpellation here. I find it interesting, however, that a woman from the countryside is exemplary with Budapest, as if there were only jobs in Budapest, or that every job seeker would like to be in Budapest. There's life in the country, Congresswoman. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Come down to the countryside!]] And they're also looking for work in the countryside, and they can also be located in the countryside, and maybe even life is cheaper. As the figures prove, it is a pity that you did not pay attention to the comments before the agenda, the figures also prove that in recent years you have achieved significant results in employment. [[It's constant noise.]] But you were primarily engaged in the employment of young people. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where are these young people, Mr. Secretary of State?]] Let me give you some of the numbers you seem to have ignored or missed when you were preparing for your interpellation. Some statistics, therefore. In 2010, when we took over government from you, the employment rate of 15-24-year-olds was 17.7 percent while at present - pay attention! - 27.4 percent, which is very significant, represents an improvement of 10 percentage points. If you look at the next age group, the 25-29-year-olds, this growth is very dynamic there too, since this rate has increased from 64.1 percent to 75.1 percent, so that is how much more people work in this age group. If I count it correctly, but you can deny me if you don't, that's an 11-point increase. So we consider it a serious achievement that these young Hungarians, who show this increase in proportion, have all been placed here in Hungary. Looks like you would've been rooting for them if they hadn't found their job here. I think these numbers speak for themselves, but not by accident, but as a result of the new measures and programmes that have taken place since 2010 [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Come!]] We've introduced you all the time. Let me mention some of these, which I would like you to listen to. [[Dr. László Kács: Come to a market and calm them down.]] I'd like to look at the contents and the effects. For example, the first job guarantee programme was launched in 2012. From 2013 we will help young people's domestic employment within the framework of the job protection action with a significant contribution reduction. In addition, the involvement of 180 000 young people in the Youth Guarantee Programme [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Minimum wage, right!]] or to help you find your job market position. So a lot of the measures were taken. [[Nándor Gúr: There are a million new jobs in the economy, right!]] which you may not have left out of your speech by accident. You say you can't make a living on average wages. I would like to inform you that the real value of net average wage has increased slightly by more than 15 per cent between 2010 and 2015, and we have not yet calculated the 7.5 per cent increase in real wages between last year and this year, which means that real wages have increased by about 22 to 23 per cent since 2010. Looks like they forgot that, too. [[Nándor Gúr: You're talking nonsense!]] After what I have just mentioned, the question arises, Madam honourable Member, how in Hungary it was possible to make a living on the average wage when you were in the government when the real wage rose from there. [[There's constant noise from the benches of the MSZP. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Six years past!]] Then why didn't you ask your government these questions? [[Dr. László Kács: You've been on the government for six years!]] and why no action has been taken in order to: [[There's always a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Is this how it's gonna go down? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Six years past! Dr. Bence Rétvári: You would have helped me with the tuition! The tuition would have been a great help.]] Thus, real wages have increased significantly and will continue to rise. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Calm down, Mr. Secretary, everything is fine.]] Looks like they're yelling because the facts are bothering you. [[Dr. László Varga's intervention.]] I would like it not to be discussed with the examination and conclusion of the facts as the closest thing to employment, the rise in wages. Thank you for your attention, and I hope you will accept my reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[He replaced the gullible Dezső in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2016-09-26-140	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-09-26-141	Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer on behalf of young people in rural areas. [[There's a lot of noise. There's a leak from the pro-government benches.]] Do you know how much money a young man makes in Tolna County today? One hundred and twenty thousand forints net! You can't make a living, but you can't plan a family. [[There's a constant noise from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's an outrageous style you're putting on. After six years of government! When you had the opportunity, half a million young people left this country because of you, because of the mistakes of their six-year government! [[16.20]] Rural youths have nothing to do but come to Budapest to work or to work in the Western counties. Therefore, Mr Secretary, I suggest you go to the countryside, look the young people in the eye, and tell them that children can easily make a living with the money they have earned. [[There's always a lot of noise.]] And you know what's very beautiful, Mr. Secretary? The fact that public workers are awarded a diploma of 70,000 forints. How does a youth with a village degree make a living?
u2016-09-26-142	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We're at the end of the interpellations. We will continue our work with immediate questions. [[Some of the representatives leave the meeting room.]] I would ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber for an urgent public task, preferably quietly and as soon as possible. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why do you not act against the hundreds of billion-dollar benefits of settlement bonds by private companies and fidesz buddies, and in a few years the Hungarian taxpayers will have to repay this huge amount with interest? It's an address. Prime Minister Mihály Varga has appointed Minister for National Economy to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for the answer.
u2016-09-26-143	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I don't know which will be first, Prime Minister Mihály Varga, or whether Viktor Orbán will come in to answer the question, but in any case...
u2016-09-26-144	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-09-26-145	I will definitely wait for the Sunday referendum; it will certainly bring us closer to the outcome. Thank you.
u2016-09-26-146	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why do you tolerate fearsome practices in people that have already allowed the establishment of 16,000 foreigners, among whom there are convicted Russian criminals, and that Fidesz sells Hungary's security for money? It's an address. Prime Minister Mihály Varga has appointed Minister for National Economy to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for the answer.
u2016-09-26-147	Mr President, there has been an experiment with Minister Lazarus, now Minister Varga. I'm sorry, Minister, but I'll wait for the Prime Minister. It's only gonna take a week. He can only reach Parliament every four weeks. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-26-148	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question: It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the President himself for an answer.
u2016-09-26-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just like in the last three weeks, I won't accept it now. I'll wait for Mr. President.
u2016-09-26-150	Thank you. Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the National Development Minister an immediate question:. No metro, no tram? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr.László Tasó Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-09-26-151	I accept, thank you very much.
u2016-09-26-152	Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Zugló is one of the most populous districts in the capital, because over 120,000 people live here. The Zugló people have been waiting for ten years for the new city centre to be built next to the Bosnyák market, one of the largest such facilities in the capital. They're waiting for a new city center, a new administrative center, a police station, a medical office, a business center. Earlier, it rejected the project's implementation for many years, that the construction of the section of the M4, originally known as South Buda-Rákospalota metro line between Keleti Railway Station and Bosnyák tér, was postponed years ago and was subsequently permanently removed from the agenda. This has also halted the development that is extremely important for the district, since a good public transport link is an essential condition for such an investment. Years ago, the possibility arose that instead of the construction of the second section of the subway, the connection between the Keleti Railway Station and Bosnyák Square should be resolved by building a high-speed line on Thököly Road. Last year, it seemed like it could become a reality. The plan for the construction of the electric power plant was previously confirmed by Secretary General Major in reply to my question. In fact, it pointed out in its reply at that time that the project would have a significant role to play in ensuring the return and sustainability of the already built subway section 4, since it would attract passengers. The fast-electric plan again highlighted the project's implementation, since the investor still has a final building permit. Now, however, it seems that there will be no electric power after the subway, even though everything in the past was in favour of the development of fixed-track transport in this direction. Nevertheless, Zugló may fall from his greatest development. In view of all this, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether the planned electric power will finally be built and, if so, when it will be expected. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-26-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-26-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you know, the study plan for the Metro 4 project delivered in 2014 was prepared in 1996 and the extension of the second and fourth phases of the project was expected to be completed at the same pace. At the second stage of the Metro Project 4, the plan was that the investment would be carried out by deep management between Keleti Railway Station and Bosnyák tér. The construction of section 4 between Bosnyák tér and Újpalota would have been built as a bark railway, as defined later. The mayor of Budapest's capital announced earlier that due to the increase in construction costs, metro line 4 sections 2 and 4 are not intended to be built as metro lines. Several people asked why the metro line 4 needed a dense distribution of downtown stations at the first stage instead of building the metro line itself on a longer section. Dear fellow Member, This question should be answered by you, because when the study was completed, it was the MSZP government and SZDSZ-led city management, so naturally you should have and should have answered this question right now. On the other hand, the Hungarian government will provide HUF 209 billion in funding using the Cohesion Fund, and one of the most important investments will be completed, the reconstruction of metro line 3. In addition, as you well know, the second stage of the purchase of low-floor trams will be completed, and tram 1 will be extended in both directions, from Kelenföldi railway station to the northern Golden Valley in the south. I think that this is a significant change compared to the previous one, so we are also making the same move, not just talking about it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Tóth. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, I didn't ask you about Metro 4 but I asked you if you were going to build the electric power on Thököly Road, and you didn't say anything about it. He talked about number four, about number three, he talked about everything here, but not what I asked him about. The question remains that if the construction was still in the government decision in November 2015 and no longer in May, but in the meantime, in February, Secretary General Fónagy said that it would be built, what was the reason for getting out of it without any decision or information. [[16.30]] And I have one more question. Does it have anything to do with the fact that Zuglo doesn't have a pro-government leader? Would it help if Gergely Christmas crossed the Fidesz? Could you build a high-speed electric or a small train in Zuglo? Answer me that. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-26-158	Thank you, Congressman. Mr László Tasó is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-159	Thank you very much. Mr Congressman, I think this subject is more serious than you have just brought it up, and at the end of the day you have tried to ask this question. What is important, however, is that I stress to you and to you that the project would have been implemented under the BKK contract. But since it was apparent that the implementation cost much more than HUF 25 billion, the Mayor indicated to our ministry that he did not intend to do so. Therefore, it was deleted from the annual development framework the following time. I didn't understand your question, we don't deal with others, we do the work the government has done. Developments are made from HUF 209 billion. I think it's a very different capital than it used to be when you were driving it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-26-160	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Why doesn't the government do anything to increase the wages of Hungarian workers? It's an address. Prime Minister Mihály Varga has appointed Minister for National Economy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-09-26-161	I'd like to wait for Prime Minister, thank you very much.
u2016-09-26-162	Thank you, Congressman. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who will account for the MNB and its President? It's an address. Prime Minister Mihály Varga has appointed Minister for National Economy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I accept.]] He'll take it. Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-163	Mr President, Dear House, While the Hungarian National Bank and its management, in cooperation with the government, could have taken a number of splendid steps, say in order to settle the situation of foreign exchange credit victims, in recent years, however, we have found that the central bank philosophy on public funds has developed a particular fairy tale in Hungary, which includes the expansion of the real estate portfolio against economic principles, press reports on new paintings for 120 million or press news about the fact that the MNB supported the Hungarian Banking Association with approximately HUF 30 million in connection with the comprehensive programme for the development of financial knowledge, which is a joke. And let's face it, the sum of 100 billion dollars resulting from the exchange of currency credits, which is the money of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, will be applauded by the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank; the amounts that would certainly be better placed than the programme points worked out in the settlement of the situation of those who have failed to do so. Evictions beat record levels, the current government of Hungary allows more people to be evicted than one or three years ago or even five years ago. Let the social disaster that could be prevented and mitigated if the Government of Hungary could take control of the leadership and leader of the MNB, at least take control of the things that can be taken in hand in the case of an independent organ. And we also have to say that if a compensation fund was created that would make the situation of the credit-damaged, at the expense of this 100 billion-dollar surplus, it would certainly not only be because of what kind of relatives, business partners and acquaintances are given to the Hungarian National Bank, it may not always be against the law, but certainly in a facial toaster way. That is why the point of my question is when the Government of Hungary will finally have an impact, on the one hand, in order to recover the money stolen from foreign exchange players and, on the other hand, in order to put an end to this scandalous situation. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-164	Thank you, Congressman. Minister Mihály Varga will answer the immediate question. You have the floor, Minister.
u2016-09-26-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, First of all, thank you for asking who is counting the MNB and its President. Let me turn to your introductory remark. I would remind you that in November 2014, when the Government, the Central Bank and the Banking Association agreed on the exchange rate fixing of the Swiss franc, two months later the Swiss Central Bank raised the exchange rate threshold, we saved about HUF 1000 billion to Hungarian foreign exchange lenders. I must tell you that this was an international success, and I can safely say that everyone else would welcome such a step in the surrounding countries. There were protests, and we were able to spare the people. Returning to your question, who will account for the MNB and its President, allow me to tell you, both in writing and verbally, there is a regular opportunity for the MNB to report. This is precisely defined in the legislation. The National Bank Act 2. The President of the MNB states that he owes such written and oral reports to the Parliament, so he owes it to you personally, Congressman. On the other hand, the MNB is bound not only by the law but also by the State Audit Office. In addition, the Economic Commission of Parliament shall be accountable. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, there are also opposition representatives who can ask their questions and report to the MNB through the President of the MNB. I also have to add that the detailed rules for reporting are laid down in Article 131 of the Act. § 2 of the Act. For example, paragraph 2 requires the President of the MNB to report in writing on a six-monthly basis. So I would like to reassure Mr President that this is fully in line with the requirements of the European Union, and here Article 130 sets out the reporting obligations of the MNB. The Hungarian Government also acts accordingly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Paragraph 1 provides for a six-monthly written reporting obligation for the President of the MNB. So I would like to reassure Mr President that this is fully in line with the requirements of the European Union, and here Article 130 sets out the reporting obligations of the MNB. The Hungarian Government also acts accordingly. Thank you for your attention. (Applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2016-09-26-166	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-09-26-167	Mr President, Dear House, What scares me is that the government itself doesn't care about the MNB's activities in such a way that it is accounted for here in front of Parliament by a series of scandals that they are doing. I can't believe Minister doesn't see that with an opposition question, we can't influence them to conclude contracts with relatives, buddies and former business partners of millions or more. There's nothing we can do about the fact that even the security company has half a million dollars worth of money flying around. You're spending public money, the MNB is spreading it, and you're letting this process spread. You may be proud to have made a pact with the Banking League. You may be proud that you have made a deal with the financial world in this regard, but you can certainly not be proud of thousands of people being evicted in Hungary. Maybe these people won't fill Kossuth Square. But you can't just think about the world of numbers when a social and social disaster is unfolding. So our demand is that the eviction moratorium be declared at last, until the situation is resolved, and do not allow the Hungarian National Bank to applause the hundreds of billions, as they contribute to the the theft of the money of foreign exchange lenders at the moment. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-168	Thank you, Congressman. Minister Mihály Varga is entitled to a rejoinder. Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-26-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, What I'm sensing is that what hurts you is that we've taken this subject from your portfolio. We've solved the issue of foreign exchange lenders over the last few years, don't forget that. In fact, you have a problem with the fact that you do not have the floor to speak in Parliament, and that is why you are on this subject. I suggest you study the operation of the MNB and the profitability of the MNB. [[Interviews in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Earlier, if you'll listen, Congressman... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In the previous period, the central bank was loss-making. Since 2013, its operation has become profitable. As a result, he had a significant dividend payment of HUF 50 billion to the central bank. So what I see, Mr President, is that on the contrary, the management of the central bank has turned from loss-making to profitable. I'll tell you again, maybe that's not what hurts you so much. What hurts you is that, in the interests of foreign exchange credentials, this government has acted, Parliament has made significant legislation, and you are shouting what you have just said here as a voice in the wilderness. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-26-170	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Who lies in the government?" It's an address. Prime Minister Mihály Varga has appointed Minister for National Economy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding, or she asks for the answer personally from Prime Minister.
u2016-09-26-171	Thank you, I'll wait for Prime Minister to answer.
u2016-09-26-172	Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has appointed Minister for National Economy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-09-26-173	Thank you very much, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2016-09-26-174	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. [[16.40]] Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:.Do you agree with the government's Chairman of the Chamber of Industry of László Parragh that there is no adult education in Hungary today, and we are talking about basically only money laundering under this heading? It's an address. Because of the Minister's urgent public service... [[Mihály Varga: I'm here, Mr. President. Intercoms, among them: Here it is! Zoltán Grimlock: He's here incessantly!]] Sorry, we're going according to my script. Yes, my dear Minister, I didn't see the Minister in the courtroom. So I give you the floor. Congressman, please.
u2016-09-26-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, The Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and its leader, László Parragh is an important partner of the government. So far, they've listened to him on a number of issues. As far as I know, his proposal reduced vocational school training to four years. He suggested that he also dictated the introduction of dual training. He placed the order for the government to reduce the education of science in vocational schools from September this year. Recently, however, László Parragh made a very exciting statement. In Kecskemét, at the 54th Economist-Immigree meeting, he spoke about, and I quote, there is no adult education in Hungary today. We're basically just talking about money laundering under this heading. This is the end of the quote. From here on in Parliament we wish László Parragh good morning. This is what we have been talking about for many years: groups of companies and trainers with political links, who are intertwined with labour centres in their own pockets; or that in Hungary the proportion of adults who are involved in adult education is well below the EU average, and how EU funds are being stolen in this area as well. LMP hopes, by the way, that László Parragh expects real reforms in adult education, not that today's adult education is a money laundering because it has not yet expanded its influence in this area, along with its oligarchs. Dear Minister, László Parragh may be a representative of a narrow group of economic oligarchs, but at last he boldly said a problem. Will you heed his words about starting the transformation of higher education? Will money laundering be liquidated? Are they creating clean relations in this area? Are things restored so that domestic adult education serves domestic workers rather than the richness of small lobby groups? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-26-176	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2016-09-26-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. That's how fleas become elephants. László Parragh, president of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the Economist-Migratory Assembly, spoke about this issue in Kecskemét, and touched on this question. You didn't exactly say what the congressman said. He said that there are companies that use adult training subsidies for money laundering. That makes the sentence sound a little different. But I don't want to say that everything is fine in adult education. In 2013, we adopted a new law. The reason for this new Adult Education Act was precisely that we could see that the use of both domestic and EU subsidies, to put it mildly, was extremely unregulated. After the adoption of this new law, it was possible for the State to try to organise primarily support programmes and adult training programmes through its own institutions. I think that we have taken a significant step in trying to push private companies out of the market that abuse the opportunities of adult education, offering people, to be honest, only papers at low, depressed prices, but not meaningful training. I don't think this job is over. We also see that there are still players on the market who abuse this training opportunity, but I have to tell you that the European Union expects us to use such grants not only as public operators but also as private operators in this examination system. We're monitoring the market. If such abuses are detected, we will act with immediate effect. Let me just add that confidence in the training system has increased considerably. We know that in 2015 a total of 190 thousand qualifications, i.e. recognised by the state, were acquired through such a system. I think we still have work to do, but we're on our way. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-26-178	I thank the Minister for his reply. I'm asking you... [[Ikotity to István:]] You have the floor, Congressman, for rejoinder.
u2016-09-26-179	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am pleased that action is being taken to create clearer situations, but I would ask you to look at what has happened in the region of EMMI, and also in other areas. If there is a sense of role in publishing textbooks, we were discussing this with Mr Rétvári State Secretary that public actors are increasingly involved instead of trying to find a balance; because I think it would be very important to have a balance between the market and public engagement. It is not the market that has to be limited in many cases, at least according to our proposal, but to find control factors, to establish control systems that do not allow someone to say after all these years about adult education, as he said, that at the moment this means money laundering in Hungary. Thank you very much for your answer.
u2016-09-26-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-09-26-181	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I think that you have confirmed what I think about this situation. Obviously, where the instrument of law is not sufficient, there must be access to the regulatory system and further, stronger tightening up in areas where such abuse is otherwise encountered. I do not think that we should exclude public or market players from this area. It should be possible for these primarily EU funds to be used as cleanly as possible, to reach the target, to be used, and, where possible, for people applying for this form of training to receive adequate training. So, Congressman, if we are going to make such a presentation in the near future, I am asking you to support this. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-26-182	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Will international and domestic legal organisations stand up for women's rights? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Ms Mariann Water East Secretary for reply to his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for the answer personally. [[Mónika Bartos: Yes, I accept, thank you.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-09-26-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On Sunday, 2 October, we Hungarian citizens will have the opportunity to form an opinion on the European Union's immigration policy. We are given the opportunity to answer whether we agree that Brussels bureaucracy should decide on the Member States and their citizens, thus avoiding us, to install people with us. A referendum can now give a successful democratic response to the unlawful decision on forced resettlement, both politically and publicly. However, with regard to the migrant issue, especially taking into account the increasing number of cases, there is very little mention of the impact on women and the dangers, as forced resettlement also has serious economic, cultural and security risks. The irresponsible management of the immigration wave in the European Union has caused and caused major social tensions, and this is a serious problem, a threat to women and women. Unfortunately, in previously peaceful EU countries receiving immigrants, there has been a significant increase in the number of sexual harassment and violent crimes committed by immigrants over the last two years. I am saddened to find that the majority of international and domestic legal protection organisations have not spoken out against the sexual offences, harassments and even the solidarity of migrants against women and minors. They do not realize that their misunderstanding of solidarity also violates the interests of European citizens, European order, women and even refugees in need. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you, how do you see international and domestic legal organisations standing up? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in favour of women's rights. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-26-184	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary Mariann Water East to answer. You have the floor, Madam Secretary. [[16.50]]
u2016-09-26-185	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for pointing out, with your question, a consequence of forced resettlement that has received an unappreciably few echoes. As you have mentioned, the number of sexual crimes against women and minors has suddenly increased in previously peaceful European states. It is well known that on New Year's Eve there were mass attacks on women in German cities, such as Cologne. Suspects of these mass attacks were newly arrived North African immigrants. 1200 women all over the country were victims of the attack. There have been many similar cases since then in different festivals and baths in Germany, Sweden and Austria. In Hungary, the government's effective measures have led to the lack of brutal atrocities such as in Western Europe. However, it is a sad fact that the sexual assaults committed by immigrants are already being victimized by Hungary. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:...17 children have died of domestic violence so far!]] So the danger is real, that these events can become commonplace not only in Western Europe, but also in Hungary sooner or later. Organisations such as Amnesty International or the Company for Freedom Rights seem to defend the interests of illegal immigrants, expressing a sense of respect for human rights standards. As far as we know, they did not raise their voice in order to help victims of sexual crimes, nor did they publicly condemn these events. It can be seen that these legal protection organisations do nothing to ensure that the rights of Hungarian and European women are not violated. As a European member of the Union, the principle of gender equality is a key part of our culture. Our basic law states that women and men are equal, and Hungary protects women and families with special measures. The government will use all means to protect women and families. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-186	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2016-09-26-187	Thank you, Mr. President. When the fathers of the European Union were thinking about the European Community, their primary goal was to have peace in Europe and to allow European citizens to live in peace on this beautiful continent. It is very sad that many European Union countries already have cities, capitals and rural cities where women do not dare to go out on the streets at night, or families do not dare to let their children go to parks and playgrounds. It is very important, of course, to emphasise the rights of refugees, but if this happens unilaterally and misinterpreted, it will not lead to any good. And it would be very good if international protection organisations not only took on their rights, but also the rights of the ladies, European ladies, women and families who live here, and that is why they would fight for it. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-09-26-188	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2016-09-26-189	Thank you very much. I fully agree with you, Congresswoman, it is important that we stand up in every possible way to protect our culture, values and laws and draw the European Union's attention to the dangers of forced resettlement. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why does a woman die every week, a child every month? The president's ringing the bell.]] It is important not to allow violations of the fundamental rights of women and children and to preserve their special constitutional protection. The stakes of the referendum on 2 October are no less than to protect Hungary from violations and to ensure that the fundamental human rights of women and children are maintained in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-190	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Bellozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. Marcali's out of obstetrics? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I could have said, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State, the question: did you know that the collapse of health care in Somogy County has come to a spectacular stage? Secretary of State, in order to transform the health care system, the hospital in Marcal was integrated into the hospital in Kaposvár. They promised high-quality, high-quality, equal access and opportunity to care for patients. They also referred to the human resources problem in integration, and you claimed that now the provision of specialist care for Marcali and its surrounding population was much more resolved. Since then, a significant number of doctors have left the hospital in Marcal. The hospital in Kaposvár is also suffering from serious labour problems, the problem is so serious that the obstetrics and gynecology department will be closed as of September 20, 2016 in the line of health services that are constantly degenerating and disappearing due to an unmanageable shortage due to the death of a doctor. Mr. Secretary, I was promised a better standard. No, it didn't, and after billions of years of development, they're devastatingly destroying everything. You promised me equal access, not because it takes the people of Marcali and its surroundings an hour and a half to travel back and forth by bus, three hours to get access to the same services. Secretary of State, when do you realize that if the Marcalians stand up for the hospital as one person, if there is no real owner of the infrastructure, if there is no resources, a predictable mechanism of operation, this effort is worthless? If it were really important for you to have more children, you wouldn't be closing this class, you'd be doing everything you can to save it. Mr. Secretary, when are you going to realize that this transformation was a mistake, that you're on the wrong path to changing health care? Dear Secretary of State, Why would they want to turn the hospital in Marcala into a shelter after billions of investments?
u2016-09-26-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and to give the session to Vice-President János Latorcai. Thank you. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-09-26-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it would have been really dangerous not only for the hospital in Marcal, but for all the other hospitals, if socialist health government, socialist-liberal amok running continued, because then you would have been very enthusiastic about collecting the visit fee not only in Marcali, but elsewhere. Your health governance also has results: removal of 6,000 workers; liquidation of 16,000 beds; withdrawal of HUF 650 billion from health care; closure of 600 small arms; withdrawal of HUF 200 billion from the E-case, the health fund only in the last years, and taking it below HUF 1500 billion. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: There was a question, Mr. Secretary of State!]] What we have now raised back to HUF 1700 billion... - Sorry, over HUF 2,000 billion; not only to 1700, where you have built it, but to over HUF 2000 billion. We've been trying to move developments around, across the country, in Marcali and elsewhere. As you know, honourable Member, in the obstetrics gynecology department in recent years, less than 300 children have been born in Marcali, 300 children have been born, and you know that there is a minimum recommendation from the obstetric gynecology department of the professional college that the number of cases required [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 300 children, isn't it?]] To have that routine, to have that experience with doctors so that children can be born safely. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] You know that, it's 500. It is ideal to have three or four births in a hospital per day, but the 500 births per year are the minimum to ensure that these children are safe to be born; to add background, routine and experience. Unfortunately, this in Marcali has fallen below 300 because of the low number of children. Therefore, not according to a separate government decision, but, I say, according to the guidance given by the obstetrics and gynecology department of the professional college on prevention of complications, an independent obstetrics department can no longer operate on its own. But for everyone in Kaposvár, of course. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bellozó for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-195	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, you were supposed to answer here why you were going to turn the hospital in Marcala into a shelter after you spent 3.5 billion forints on it. You should not hold public forums in Marcali and around it to lie Juncker's image into people's eyes, and you should not pursue a hate campaign to draw attention to these very serious problems. Is the health department crashing because a doctor died? Do we have to close a class? Aren't you ashamed to come here with such an answer? ! Secretary of State, do you know what you should be talking about? That, according to the current KSH statistics, the average net salary of health physical workers in Somogy County is HUF 57 564. You should do something about this shame; and by putting the money into this hospital in vain, you lie to them all over the world about what great health care you're gonna do, what you're gonna do, what you're gonna do, what you're gonna do, what you're gonna do, what you're gonna do, what you're gonna do, what you're gonna do, you're gonna ruin everything, and you're gonna try to cover it up with lies. Shame on you, I won't accept your answer. [[17.00]]
u2016-09-26-196	The Secretary of State also has a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You don't know the numbers or the genres. It's not the interpellation hour and a half, we're past that, you don't have to say you accept or don't accept the answer, it's the hour of immediate questioning, on the one hand. On the other hand, I think it is important, if not for you, at least for the people in Marcali, that we plan to create a new ten-bed section at the marcali premises of the Kaposi Mor Training Hospital, which will allow for urgent care and safe treatment on the ground. In Marcali, we continue to ensure better standards both in the emergency department and in diagnostic tests. Fortunately, there is an extra resource for this, because against you who have taken a month's wages from everyone in this hospital, we are now raising the wages of doctors to HUF 207,000, and we are raising the wages of nurses by 66,5 percent over the next four years. Of course, you can choose, honourable Member, and weep back at those times; few cry back those times. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] When I was sick, I was threatened by a visitation fee. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Then the hospital worked!]] And as a doctor, there was a wage reduction, and now there's a wage increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Pride: Doctors are overpaid, then!]]
u2016-09-26-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question. It's an address. Congressman László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-199	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm very happy to discuss with you the otherwise sad case that's taking place in front of our eyes these days. The former CBA franchise partner Palóc Nagykereskedelmi Kft. For after 25 years of operation, he seems to be running into bankruptcy and has put the blinds on him. This is also important because, although he was the largest employer in Nógrád county, his failure and his escape to bankruptcy will affect 1300 people and the family of 1300 people. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]] It may be difficult, of course, to see what could have caused the bankruptcy, and it must have had the effect of the government's activities so far, as, if we look at measures aimed at crowding out and re-regulating the multinationals, we can clearly see that both the loss of tobacco sales, the closure on Sunday or the introduction of transaction fees, advertising tax, the introduction of tolls, have been so difficult for the company that the economic company, which was otherwise winding up from the 2000s and producing a positive and stable balance sheet in 2011-2012, has collapsed, and now, for two years after each other, seems to have achieved a negative result. The point is that a domestic economic environment could have contributed to the bankruptcy of a well-functioning company producing HUF 27 billion in revenue for 25 years. We are there now, Minister, and you may be familiar with these shops, for example, in Nógrád County or Poroszlo, Heves County, where I think you may have stopped at a similar store, or at the Abadszalók or, for example, the Karcag store, which may be familiar, the workers do not know how to proceed. They do not know whether they can receive their wages, whether they will receive August, they do not even know how to proceed. Typically, these families, who have nowhere else to go, have no reserves. It is certainly noteworthy that, given the fact that it is a CBA franchise, the government may have had to see it coming. Therefore, I respectfully ask Minister what these 1300 people and their families should do, who have no idea what will happen to them. Did the government see such serious trouble coming? If so, why didn't you act? And what you wish to do, what you can hope for, the families of Nógrád, Vézi, Szolnok county, who are the Palóc Nagykereskedelmi Kft. Do you live off your work? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2016-09-26-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House of Representatives, Honourable Congressman, I'm just getting this question, because three days ago, I was standing in front of the CBA store in Pruszlo, which you mentioned, and I went into this store to personally inform the employees about the situation now, who said that they were on leave last week, this week they were invited, but they didn't get paid in August. So it's actually what the newspapers wrote, what the press wrote. These 1,300 employees didn't get their pay in August, as you said, which affects 80 businesses across six counties. Now, what can we do? For the 14 people who worked in the shop in Prussian, I could tell you the same thing I'm telling you here. First of all, we cannot override the rules of the market economy, so if a company manages at a loss, it will eventually go bankrupt. The Palóc wholesaler lost nearly HUF 2 billion last year, and the company was a loss-making company not only last year, but also the previous year. So, obviously, the company is in a bad management situation, it's a bad farm, and that's what put these 80 businesses in jeopardy. There's one thing we can do at a time like this. On the one hand, we would like to ensure that the workers there receive the money they receive, so we will support this from the Wage Guarantee Fund. On the other hand, we have contacted them through the labour organisation, the government offices, in order to offer them jobs wherever possible in these six counties. It is well known to you that there are nearly 8,000 commercial vacancies in the retail trade, so it is possible for these people to be able to find their way into these six counties. We would like to support them in making sure that this happens as soon as possible. If the company is finally liquidated [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I hope that we can do this soon, in the case of the county of Nógrád, this concrete step has already taken place. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-202	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-203	Thank you very much. It's one thing that I'm not comfortable with that answer either, and the workers probably can't rest completely either. Minister, perhaps we should still answer this question as to whose interests the CBA, which is also behind this company, is. Who might have seen this coming trouble? Do you have any contact with government circles? Are there any links with the government that they can signal when a company with 1300 employees, which is the largest employer in the county of Nógrád, is in serious trouble? Was there any information about this? That's what the residents would really like to know, because many people think that the government's misguided policy may have brought them here. In fact, many people are afraid that they will not be able to get a job after this, since we all know that in these counties, in the county of Nógrád, in Heves county or in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, the location is not nearly ideal. Dear Minister, I therefore ask the answer to these questions: did the government have anything to do with it, whether it had any insight into whether, by the way, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the company close to CBA is in such a situation, and who are at all responsible for this? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-09-26-205	Honourable Congressman, We're on the side of the people, the workers who worked in these CBA stores. Therefore, I would like to emphasise once again that they will receive their outstanding salary, they will have to receive it, we can guarantee this from the Wage Guarantee Fund, and we want to help them to move forward. Only in these six counties - Pest, Hajdú-Bihar, Nógrád, Heves, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén - there are nearly 2,000 vacant commercial jobs. So we can help you find your location. As far as your concern is concerned, I cannot resolve this; you are a restless man, there probably wouldn't have been an answer that you could accept. But I would like to stress in any case that the rules of the market economy cannot be overwritten by anyone, not you, not me, not anyone else. If a company doesn't manage well, it doesn't matter who it's close to or who it's away from, it's going to go bankrupt sooner or later, and that's what happened with the Palóc wholesaler, the company's in bankruptcy. The most important thing for us right now is that the person working there [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We can find the opportunity for people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-206	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Representative József Attila Móring, representative of the KDNP, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:, Is it possible for the government to promote the growth of Hungarian nut production? It's an address. Congressman Attila Móring, notary, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-207	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian nut production was outstanding last year. The quality of Hungarian walnuts is better than that of Italian and American walnuts, which is probably why it has an extremely good market. The great advantage of domestic nut varieties is that most of them are premature, so they can also appear on international markets in September, ahead of foreign competition. Nuts, as we know, are a long-term investment. In recent years, several producers have been interested, and thanks to previous plantings, the amount of nuts produced in Hungary may double in a few years. [[17.10]] According to the report of the Institute for Agricultural Economic Research, walnuts are the only nut fruits with a positive foreign trade balance. Last year, more than 2 thousand tonnes of nuts were sold on the external markets, which, although a 3 percent decrease, amounted to 1 billion 840 million forints. Prices increased, the domestic nut producer price was 13 percent higher in 2015 than it had been a year before, so the price per kilo was close to HUF 3 thousand. Last year, some 2,200 tonnes of nut gut were sold by producers. From the latter category, exports mainly to the French and German markets, but also to the United Kingdom are significant. On the basis of the data of the KSH, nuts are grown in Hungary at some 4551 hectares, of which an average of 1 to 1.5 tonnes were harvested, and 6717 tonnes were collected by farmers in 2015. Dear Secretary of State, In order to increase production and further increase exports, what toolbox does the government have? How can you help domestic farmers to achieve these objectives? I await the reply of the honourable Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-26-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, My dear fellow Member, If you plant a walnut tree, you will trust in the future, because it is not for tomorrow, but for the day after tomorrow, it is better to say that the one who plants today is good for your grandson. In Hungary, at the end of the 1990s, we could count on 3,000 tons of crops. Thanks to the continuous planting of trees in recent years, it can now be said that 6 thousand tons of crops can be realised in one year. It may not be known to everyone, but we can be proud that it is the largest contiguous nut plantation in Central Europe in your constituency in Hungary. To date, walnut growers have applied for plantation promotion in some 217 hectares for nearly HUF 300 million, and we are constantly waiting for further applications. The gardeners will soon be able to submit their claim for the purchase of machinery, at the expense of the available HUF 18 billion. The proposal, which is expected to be published in October, provides support for the purchase of machinery and equipment related to gardening production. This year it will also be possible to receive agricultural-environmental support again: the new call will amount to HUF 40 billion, of which HUF 15 billion will be the share of vineyards and fruit plants. The production-related aid introduced from 2015 will also give aid to walnut plantations. The area on which at least 100 walnut trees per hectare are located, not exceeding 50 years of age, shall be considered eligible area. The amount of the aid was HUF 99 516.5 per hectare in 2015 and a similar amount of aid could be expected in 2016. Producers with a nut plant may also benefit from a gas oil excise duty refund [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and FM also provides support for the cultivation of orchards, some 314 million forints in 2015. We'll continue, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The word now belongs to Congressman Attila Móring in a minute.
u2016-09-26-211	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. It is good and reassuring to see that the government not only assumes responsibility for nut growers at word level, but also ensures responsibility for them with real actions and support opportunities. I also hope that the government will also try to prepare for extraordinary situations in the best possible way, including the frost and ice damage that is causing serious problems in agricultural production. I would also like to thank you for your reply on behalf of farmers in Poland and farmers in the area. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague has just said that last year was a very good harvest, but this year, we know very well, the frost has taken it, and there will certainly be great problems with accounting. The farmers who joined the agricultural compensation scheme can benefit from compensation for their certified losses, and the scheme is continuously developed by the Ministry of Agriculture. In the municipality affected by frost damage and hail damage in spring, farmers may benefit from interest-free and non-cost-free loans for credit contracts concluded until 30 November 2016. I hope that the aid scheme and the compensation scheme I have presented will help increase domestic production, make farming even more efficient, keep our safe export markets, and even the emergence of high quality Hungarian nuts in other export markets, so that we can all, too, plant a walnut tree. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Has the government raised corruption to a scientific level? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-215	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In its market-oriented R &amp; D fantasy program GOP 1.1.1-11, a business consulting company received a total grant of HUF 300 million for cancer research. He made 55 million forints out of it, but it's not the most embarrassing thing, it's the fact that he had two consortium partners. [[Dr. Bence Móring is talking to József Attila Rétvári. The president's ringing the bell.]] One is an Avidin Kft. He spent 108 million forints on material costs and 36 million for personal expenses. However, the other consortium member was the University of Szeged, who spent HUF 37 million on material costs and HUF 141 million on personal expenses, which is quite incredible. It was a one-year research, and they did it in a year. That money could have paid 12 professors' wages. It's quite amazing, it's a relatively simple research, they infected cell culture with virus, and here they observed cytopathogenic effects, gene expression. Obviously, with some lab staff, some doctoral students, under the guidance of a professor, you can do that. I can't believe it: 12 professors' wages are off! The problem is, it doesn't seem to be an isolated case. The GINOP 2.3.2-15 programme also provides that at least 30% of research projects are to be taken into account for personal costs. Seven and a half professors would work on these projects each year for a billion-dollar project, but experience is that there are 70 percent of projects that have been set for personal expenses. The question is how they dare to do this, because it is quite incredible, and do you support this practice, that 70 percent of research projects are personal costs. Thank you.
u2016-09-26-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-26-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Honourable Member, our wallet deals with EFOP projects, not with GINOP projects, but you have accused everyone here of corruption, I have made a short list: Eger College, Kaposvár University, Pannonia University, Szent István University, University of Szeged, Kodolányi János College, Óbuda University, and there is almost no organization in Hungary that has not been included in your broad portfolio, and in which areas at least you would not see different messy, confusing, abusive cases. Obviously, the genre of the immediate question is not suitable for you to stand up, say a project, and tell us at which university how much money was spent on it or which kft. how, how he spent. Obviously, there are other genres of this, if you would like to find out facts and data in these cases, but they are also on the Internet, you can also find out from the accounts, you can turn to project owners, authors of various procurements, beneficiaries and get this information from them. Of course, by getting more information from you, I'm not sure you'll find any abuse in this. And if you find abuse, then you obviously have the opportunity to do so, not by means of political means, but by means that can be legally assessed. I see you're less active in this, and you prefer to talk politically about these issues. Obviously, there are always people everywhere who don't win, who stay down, obviously they can provide plenty of information, if any. I don't know if that's the case with you or not, but just because you're telling us these numbers for a project that isn't directly related to our wallet, I don't think we're ahead of you in terms of efficiency or politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The congressman will take the floor for a minute. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-219	Thank you very much for mentioning other examples, here I have asked one question. Do you think it is appropriate for the University of Szeged to charge HUF 40 million in material costs and HUF 141 million in personnel costs in a project? The question was as simple as that, we shouldn't be talking about other people completely. But if you mention the rest, we'll bring them up, we'll pull them out, you said other universities. Then I'm gonna ask you one more question, and you're just gonna tell me if it's appropriate or not. [[17.20]] Answer whether it is appropriate that the University of Kaposvár had six months of mycotoxin research of 250 million forints, of which 25 million forints were paid to write a study with a kft. that was founded a year ago, and the title of the study was how to involve young doctoral students in this mycotoxin research. Just say you agree or disagree.
u2016-09-26-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State will take the floor for a minute. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-221	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr. Congressman, if you see any irregularities in this, you know, you know, how you can investigate regularity in these matters. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's not what you asked. Dr. Ákos Hadházy: Do you agree or not?]] I'm sure you can look at it all the time. Do this. You're not so far ahead of this; I see that every week you're under a pressure, and now not only on Thursdays, but on Mondays and Tuesdays, there may be pressure to come up with something bombastic. Obviously, this can be carried for some time. I don't know, if you choose this political career for yourself, we don't have a say in that, so do it if you think so. Obviously, what is right and wrong in a specific case is what is right and wrong, and I admit frankly, I am not an expert on these toxins, and I think there are relatively few people in this room who are. You seem to be the expert on the use of EU funds. If you think that anything was irregular, you know what control mechanisms there are, you know who has what responsibility, you should act there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-222	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It's 5:22 p.m., and we're at the end of the immediate questions. LXXV of 2015 on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets for the purpose of the county libraries and county-wide urban museums. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by our Fidesz colleagues by Péter Cseresnyés, László Vigh and Mónika Dunai T/12066. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to Mr László Vigh, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame, who will give his speech in place. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the basis of the previous amendment on museum institutions, public library provision and public culture, county museums and county libraries were reserved for county town, county town and county museum member institutions were maintained by the competent municipal authorities. The movable property directly serving and necessary for the performance of the task has been acquired free of charge by the maintenance authorities. However, the legislation adopted at that time did not provide for the transfer of property for the provision of library and museum tasks. The property was owned by the Hungarian State and the public education institutions received a trust license. However, the triple maintenance structure thus established made institutional tasks, participation in the tender and the rapid and efficient implementation of the necessary improvements difficult. Therefore, in June 2015, the Parliament adopted a law on the transfer of certain state-owned assets to free municipal property for the maintenance of county libraries and county-wide urban museums. As a result, movable and real estate assets for the task of county museums and county libraries have become the property of the maintenance authorities requiring the transfer of property, thereby helping to perform the mandatory tasks of the municipality more effectively and effectively. During the preparation of the law, Zalaegerszeg county-owned city also sent a list of properties it intends to own for the purpose of carrying out these tasks. This included property number 217/6, which is also suitable for the Göcseji Museum, but only 15 percent of which were used by the municipality for museum purposes. The Government Office of Zala County, including public health and consumer protection, has a prominent administrative role in a large part of the property, and it is therefore appropriate to re-establish the government office's trust rights in order to develop and effectively manage the property. On the basis of a written statement and consent from the Mayor of Zalaegerszeg County, the property serves only a small part of the municipal tasks, so it agrees that the real estate should once again be owned by the State by law. The amendment of the law in this respect does not affect the fundamental provision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of a proposal supported by the municipality and the state trustee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Peter Hoppál, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary. Mr Secretary of State has a 30-minute timeframe. I'll wait for him to put the microphone on. Thank you very much. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-26-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The maintenance circle of public collections and the financing background have indeed changed significantly over the past half a decade. As Mr President has pointed out, the network of museums and libraries carrying out county tasks has been transferred to the maintenance of local authorities, and we have not stopped halfway, as the municipalities have made a motion for a new amendment, so the government supported that initiative about six months ago or more precisely a year ago, which led to the transfer of assets, movable and immovable property, mentioned by you, into the hands of the municipalities already having the right to maintain it. In Hungarian, the most recent amendment of the law meant a significant recapitalisation to the municipalities that the law also transferred real estate and movable property to the task. For this amendment, a very significant annex consisting of 170 items was drawn up by the professional wallet, and this annex was drawn up jointly with the Association of County Cities, in coordination with various professional organisations and on the basis of a declaration by the county authorities themselves. I think that this direction is certainly correct and that according to the principle of self-government, subsidiarity, it was a set of steps that had already been desired. As far as the substance of the law is concerned, and what you have now agreed with a motion for amendment, of course it was necessary to examine over time whether the properties transferred to the municipalities were intended to serve the municipality in full for the purpose of re-use, and we have called on it to do so, as well as to the attention of the local authorities in charge of culture, to examine, after the transfer of assets, the extent to which the transferred properties serve the purpose of which the municipalities themselves initiated, and the individual representatives fully supported this proposal. The construction of the real estate annex to the Act was therefore preceded by careful preparation, in which the municipalities sent through the Association of cities with the rights of the County to the Ministry of Human Resources and the Ministry of National Development a list of the properties which they wanted to take over as municipal property. The list of properties annexed to the law was thus developed in this way, as I have just indicated. Experience has shown that, among other things, it is particularly important and easier to change ownership conditions in order to achieve the successful development of real estate through the current Modern Cities programme or other EU funds, and to create a longer-term responsibility for local governments. [[17 .30]] Let us not forget that in recent years the cultural institutional system has been able to achieve spectacular results in the wide dissemination of cultural values, the expansion of access opportunities and modernisation, largely through the involvement of domestic, partly domestic and partly EU funds. The Act on Property also contains very fundamental guarantees, and the transferred property is committed to the performance of cultural public tasks. The law states that when the property is transferred, the municipality declares that it is carrying out such a task in the transferred property. Therefore, it cannot be used for any other function or the transferred property cannot be alienated by the municipalities. These are very strict, very restrictive regulations. The T/12066 in front of us now. The purpose of this bill, registered by MEP László Vigh with Péter Cseresnyés, is that the annex to the Act on Property, which we are talking about, is one of his items, item 147, i.e. the 2017/6 in the interior of Zalaegerszeg. With regard to land number... - change the law and re-own state property. This is a responsible municipal motion, because the function of the 1 ha 1143 square meters of office-house-type, marked property was viewed, and the municipality identified that only a small part of this will be used by the Göcseji Museum, so that it is not justified to keep it in the hands of the municipality of Zalaegerszeg County. The municipality intends to settle its legal status by returning the property to public property and by taking a fixed part of it into asset management. The Deputy State Secretary for Culture, in this way the Government's opinion, supports this bill, according to which the responsible municipal administration intends to enforce the right of trustee in relation to the museum for the future and to propose the value of property to be returned to the State. MNV Zrt. We also have the position of the directorate-general of asset management, according to which, beyond the amendment of the law, there is no other practical solution to take back the property, in Hungarian, to amend an item in such an annex, it is absolutely necessary to open that law. However, this may be added to the fact that the municipality of Zalaegerszeg, whether or not the real estate register has already been registered in the ownership of the municipality of Zalaegerszeg. and thus initiates the exchange of assets under the most legitimate procedure. The bill meets both legal and museum requirements in full professional terms. I would like to ask you, with all due respect, the Parliament's plenum, to support the adoption of the bill, to thank you for your possible improvements and amendments. In recent days, we have been informed by some municipalities that in relation to the Annex opened, some municipalities are thinking about a similar correction in the coordination of the Association of Local Governments with County Rights. Therefore, by the deadline for the amendment which may be tabled, if amendments are still tabled, Mr President, it is clear that the list can still be supplemented in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we are going to hear speeches from the lead speaker, but I am going to inform this House that not all the factions want to use the keynote speech. Accordingly, for the first time, the MSZP Group makes use of the opportunity to speak as a speaker. I give the floor to Congressman László Teleki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-227	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Socialist Party has given much thought to whether or not to support this law. I, since I came from the national list to Parliament as a representative of Zalai, asked the faction to support it, and the main reason for the support is for the citizens of Zala County to benefit. However, I would like to draw the Parliament's attention to the fact that, in the period since 2010, there has been a rush and a desire for centralization, which marked the government, because there has been a period when this institution concentration has been tried to be exercised without any preliminary opinion being requested from any advocacy organisation, any civil sector, or even an impact assessment has been carried out. This is an absolute result, because that's exactly what the current amendment is about, that's what they're trying to deal with at some level. Therefore, I think it would be very important to explore what the government would like to do more than this law, or many other laws, and to carry out impact assessments in order not to change again and again in a year or two; not because the Parliament has a task, but the local people themselves do not know who owns the institution, nor do they know its operating system. So it could become opaque in this case. Therefore, I think that a government should definitely think in the long term when deciding on local institutions and making various proposals. Therefore, to show that the Hungarian Socialist Party supports local people and citizens, the fact that the faction decided that it would support this proposal, but there are a number of things that I could say to myself that, by the way, if, in the next period, the same system will be used again and there will be no professional discussions, then it will be very difficult to support such things, because it should simply not be supported if professional opinions are not heard and tried to incorporate it into the decision-making mechanism. Therefore, not only in this law, as I have said, but in countless other laws, this centralization that they have begun has not worked. And it also seems that the municipalities were given a certain opportunity and freedom, there was such a policy for the Fidesz government, and after that, it was also possible to see it withdraw the liberal thinking of the municipalities that it had given, and suddenly began to centralize it again, and then try to redirect it in such a direction that it would be better for you if it came out of here, and it would be state-owned, and you would not care about it. However, I think that much more opportunities should be given to municipalities and that autonomy should be better ensured not only in maintaining the institutions but also in running the institutions. This is where the Fidesz government should contribute better and more effectively. Therefore, despite the fact that the Hungarian Socialist Party has seen a lot of problems in recent years that should not be supported, the Hungarian Socialist Party wishes to support this proposal, which the two representatives of Zala County have presented. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-26-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Member, the rapporteur, On behalf of my own faction, I can say that we will support this bill, despite the fact that the explanatory memorandum itself is part of the written text of the bill's written text, which has little to say about the true intentions. More has been said here in the House. We ourselves would have tried to ask our local government representatives what the real reason for this change of ownership might be, and we hope we can only hope that the development intentions that more people have said here do not have a motive behind them, which will force us to regret our vote in favour and to override or alter the current legislative reasons. We still find it difficult to accept on our part that there is now a real change of ownership between the state and the municipalities for more than just nationalisation. At the moment, this situation is less critical, but in general nationalisation is rejected in this sense. [[17.40]] At the same time, I have to add, in particular, that regarding Mr.Péter Hoppál's exposé or comment, perhaps it should not have been decided by an ex post inquiry whether or not the law that was once created in 2015 was actually supported. So perhaps it would have been worth creating the law at the time that the list of properties put forward there all express the intention of the legislator to do what the law of that time was meant to do. I would like to ask with respect that if the Secretary of State has any specific knowledge of what additional real estate we will decide when we vote for this law, he will now present it to the House, because perhaps it will also affect our vote if it turns out that he will still have a mass of such municipal proposals or state demands. Overall, I can say once again that we will support the proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-230	Thank you very much, notary. Member István Ikotity of the LMP Group is the lead speaker, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, LXXV of 2015 on the transfer of certain state-owned assets to free municipal property for the purpose of the county libraries and county-owned urban museums. The current proposal to amend law relates to a legislative change adopted last year. Last summer, Parliament decided to simplify the three-player solution in the operation of cultural institutions, because by then, thanks to the current government, a chaotic structure had developed that the state was the owner, the institutions were the trustees, and the municipalities as the maintainers had a role in the operation of the institutional system. After the amendment of the law, the municipalities maintaining the county museums and libraries owned the property for the purpose of carrying out their duties. On the part of the LMP, we also considered this a positive step by returning these properties to the municipalities. This is certainly a positive step when, in general, the opposite processes are taking place: the tasks are being taken away from the municipalities, everything is nationalised, the assets are being used free of charge, the local government is being emptied, as my fellow Members have already said. The location's margin of manoeuvre will be reduced to a minimum and the local population's involvement in public affairs will be limited. At least in the museum, library area, they went against it and strengthened the settlements a little bit. The current amendment would at least correct the law adopted last year. The fact is that after a year, it turned out that Zalaegerszegen had given ownership of one of the properties to the municipality, but it did not claim it, since only 15% of the real estate is used for cultural purposes. Therefore, the state would now take back ownership, while everything remains the same, the cultural function does not have to move out of the institution. The weird thing is, why they only change that after a year. Didn't you negotiate with the municipality earlier? Did they give you the property by mistake? What's happened in the last year? Of course, it may also be that, if the individual Members of the Council were not rushed to submit their proposals in the form of legislative proposals, as they did last year, these errors and errors could be avoided. It is clear that the Kucsák Lászlós, who submitted the 2015 proposal, were not able to consult and eliminate all municipalities at the same time. It would be the government's job to expect these important amendments, which were also adopted by two thirds last year. But if we go beyond the rush of governing parties and the legislation bypassing social consultations, then there are still a few things to say. We are pleased that, after the situation of libraries and museums has come to a standstill, as far as ownership and maintenance are concerned, these conditions are not being disturbed again. But this was only a necessary and insufficient amendment last year, without the tangible involvement of real development plus resources, we will still not experience it. In a previously bled-out municipal system - we said earlier - the operation of the local cultural institution system will not be successful. And over and over again, we have to say our fundamental criticism of the government's cultural policy that it is not really a question of supporting the access of as many people to cultural values as possible, especially of strengthening participation in cultural value creation. When hundreds of billions are spent on megaloman plans, on moving to Castle, on Castle Quarter, on Liget projects that break green surfaces, then the real goals become absolutely clear. The entire cultural budget is aimed at the culture of the elite and the capital, it favours them, leaving the countryside and millions of people who are currently not included in the culture. In this respect, although libraries and museums really play an important role in boosting local cultural life, in order to achieve this in reality, it would require completely different government visions and objectives. The LMP continues to claim that only once in a while measures that give rise to half-solutions and the culture of the countryside will produce no meaningful results. At the same time, we obviously have no objection to this amendment of the law, and we will support it. Thank you.
u2016-09-26-232	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Vigh, on behalf of the rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-09-26-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank the MSZP, Jobbik and LMP for their support. I agree with Mr László Teleki MSZP, that this is indeed a local matter, and local affairs should be supported by local representatives. On which we do not agree, I have noted one of the words of Congressman that citizens do not know who owns the property, whose property is owned by an institution. I would like to say that the Hevesi Sándor Theatre was owned by the county assembly in Zalaegerszeg, now it is owned by the city, the county theatre worked very well, and the city theater works well. People, I'm sorry, Congressman, you don't really care who owns the theater, you're more interested in whether we see good pieces, that's very important. And if I could get to the museum, no museum will decide whether it's state-owned or county-owned or city-owned. You said, Congressman, that they were freer municipalities. I think there's been a huge shift in the municipal system. I was mayor for 20 years, and then we argued about how much money to take, because we received 40 percent support for a school maintenance and 60 had to be added, and many municipalities said that there was a problem not with will, but with opportunity. I think that, after local government consolidation, talking about not being free from local governments is a little difficult, not to mention the development resources they are now receiving from the TOP and elsewhere. I think that the good situation of the municipalities, Mr Teleki, has never been, thank God. I would also like to thank Mrs. Loránt Violin for her support. LMP spokesperson says it's nationalization and it's being taken away from the municipalities. Yes, now there is a school system operating in Zala County, there are still a lot of basic education systems for God from 258 settlements, the mayors are very happy that the state pays the price of water, electricity, gas and pays the wages in their own settlements, and the institution stays there and the children can learn there. If nationalization has such a good reputation, then we are happy to take nationalization. You said there was a bled-out municipal system. Perhaps this is also due to the fact that you have not been able to become mayor in the last 26 years, because whoever was mayor and operating in the system knows what it meant to operate when, I do not say to the parties who operated - 2015 - and who operates the municipalities after 2010. [[17.50]] There's a whole other world. If you met the mayors and talked to them, you'd know there's a freer world in the municipal system now. They wonder how they can develop and where to build an institution. So there's a completely different system. After this brief little intermezzo and debate, I would once again like to thank all the parties for their support in these individual cases, Kanizsa and Zalaegerszeg, because we are really dealing with individual matters, we need two solutions that serve the city's interests and serve the county's interests. Thank you for your attention and thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The next item is the consolidated debate on the Hungarian-Bulgarian Friendship Day. Now we have to wait two minutes, because the debate on the same item on the agenda just ended at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. They will arrive within minutes and bring the report of the Legislative Committee, and the author will also arrive. In the meantime, I'm gonna need your patience. I can't even say it's gonna take a minute or two, but I hope we don't need that much time. [[It's a short break.]] And here we go, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A joint debate on the Hungarian-Bulgarian Friendship Day will follow. Presentation by representatives of the Bulgarian ethnicist Varga Simeon, Vágó Sebestyén Jobbikos, Kucsák László Fideszes, Ander Balázs Jobbikos, Mónika Dunai fideszes, Károly Panczél fideszes, Alpár Gyopáros fideszes, Sándor Szabó MSZP, Erzsébet Schmuck LMP and Mátyás Firtl KDNP H/9425. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. By way of derogation from the adopted house rule, a total of 15 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 5 minutes for a statement of government representation, 6 minutes for a speaker appointed by the Legislative Committee, of which, if there is a minority opinion, 3 minutes, of which, if there is no minority opinion, of course, 6 minutes, 5 minutes for the speakers of the political groups, and 3 minutes for independent representatives. I now give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, the author of the item on the agenda, as I have said, within a 15-minute time frame. As much as you've used from the 15 minutes, the rest is what can be used for the closing. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor.
u2016-09-26-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First, I'd like to say a few sentences in Bulgarian, and then I'd like to translate it. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на българите в Унгария ит моето име на този тържествен ден. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Bulgarians in Hungary and myself, to welcome you on this great day. In my speech to Parliament on 5 October 2015, nearly a year ago, I proposed to organise the Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship day. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister Bojko Metodiev Borisov, Prime Minister László Kövér, Vice-President of the Republic Margarita Povova, his eminence Cardinal Péter Erdő and head of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church Neofit were also pleased. My initiative was supported by all parliamentary groups, so we presented our proposal for a resolution together with the members of the Hungarian-Bulgarian Friendship Group of the Interparlamental Union. I would also like to thank the Bulgarian-Hungarian Bulgarian IPU, as the initiative was gladly patronized from the very first moment. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a great celebration for Bulgarian nationalities living in Hungary. In our hearts, there are two homes, two homes. Our roots feed from two countries. These roots are strong, for our new country has done everything in its power to find our place, and our country has never turned away from us. From simple gardeners, a community was forged that preserved its identity, protected its customs, and remembered its religion and wonderful mother tongue. Hungary has given our beautiful fathers a helping, friendly hand, and they have tried to show their virtues and give them their knowledge with hard work and faith. Lazar Ivanov, the first president of the Association of Bulgarians in Hungary, quoted the idea:. The future must be built not only with a hoe, but with faith in God and with an open eye. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, As a descendant of our busy ancestors, I can stand before you today at the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament, as a representative of Bulgarian nationality, and I could even ask your support in my mother tongue about this pulpit. That's a very big word. I am grateful that I have been given the opportunity to convey the wishes of our community and to ask for the tradition of friendship day. At the same time, I express my gratitude to the Bulgarian National Assembly that, on 15 September 2016, 130 yes, zero accompaniments and zero no votes, 19 October was declared a day of Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship, so that we can celebrate this day together in our countries, deepening and strengthening the friendship between the two peoples. Saying and living friendship is not just about strengthening economic relations, but it is also very much needed. During my duties, I have made a number of announcements to Bulgaria about the unique and exemplary representation, autonomy and support system of nationalities in Hungary. Friendship between the two peoples has not just begun, on the tangled roads of history in many cases, fate has brought us together. Today, however, the most important thing is to give each other a helping hand and create a strong bastion to protect our roots. Looking back on the Hungarian and Bulgarian people, we can say that the Hungarians and the predecessors of the Hungarians have spent more than a thousand years in the neighbourhood of Bulgarians and pre-migrants, or together with them. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On October 19th, the saint of the Orthodox Church, the patron saint of Bulgaria, Szent János Csodádévő Rilai - as we say: Ivan Rilszki Sveti - is linked to the name of the saint in Bulgaria. Throughout history, III. In 1183, the Hungarian king Béla launched a campaign against Byzantine, creating favourable conditions for the formation of the second Bulgarian tsar in 1187 and the elimination of Byzantine rule. hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/III._Béla_Hungarian_king'>III. Under the leadership of Béla, a Hungarian army broke into Bulgarian territories still under Byzantine rule, and among others, St. John Rilai or, as we say, the relics of Sveti Ivan Rilszki were taken with them to hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungary">Hungary. The relics placed on the hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esztergom">Esztergom between 1183-1186 did many miracles. Legend has it that the Archbishop forbade the respect of St. John because he did not consider him a saint. Not long after his provision, he was silenced, and only his repentance, his tears on his holy grave, resolved his tongue. CHAPTER III Béla was informed of the case, the artifacts were immediately taken into gold and silver, and hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/1187"> In 1187 he returned them to the city of Sredec, today's Sofia. Returning the sacred relics reminds us that our faith binds us, and we cannot forget this strong bond. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A few words about how the Bulgarians settled in Hungary began. The Bulgarians, fleeing from the Turks, arrived in Hungary together with the Serbs at the XV. In the century. The next wave of immigrants came to the country as a merchant after the Turkish occupation, following the peace of Karlóca in 1699. The group of Bulgarians engaged in gardening is set out in Annex XVII. and Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. At the turn of the century, he started his journey from the village of Lyaskovec in northern Bulgaria, then from Polikraiste and Draganovo. [[18.00]] Most of the Bulgarians in Hungary come from these two municipalities. Initially, their groups formed periodically between their homeland and the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy in the framework of the traditionally established migrant labour force, the so-called Bulgarian-gurbet. In 1914, 5204 officially registered Bulgarians worked in the Monarchy. Everywhere they settled, they introduced intensive, irrigating and flooding vegetable cultivation. On the one hand, Bulgarian gardens have replaced a shortage of garden management and on the other hand, they have created new needs and met new needs. In general, they were produced on land rented at the edge of larger cities, in relatively small areas to meet market needs, and provided the vegetable needs of industrialised regions and cities. The Bulgarians introduced eggplant in Hungary. After World War I, farmers began to rent land for several years, many bought land, houses, apartments, and did not come home every year or even married here. More and more have broken the previously unwritten standards of migrant workers and brought their children along with their wives. This had a direct consequence that the work organisation moved from associational gardening to family farming. The period of permanent establishment began in the years between the two world wars and continued until the beginning of the 1940s and 1950s. Dear Parliament, In the summer of 1914, gardeners and merchants who spent longer time in and working here in Hungary founded the Bulgarian Association of Hungary, which has been operating continuously for more than a hundred years. The centre of Bulgarian community and cultural life is the Bulgarian Cultural House, the building of which was built by the Hungarian Bulgarians from their own strength, donations, and the works were completed in 1957. The Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Hungary was founded in 1916 by the Bulgarian Greek Church in Hungary. This year we celebrate the 100-year anniversary of the operation of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Hungary. At the Jubilee ceremony, the head of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, Neofit Bulgarian Patriarch, held a Mass in our church, strengthening our community, and met Cardinal Péter Erdő in St. Stephen's Basilica. The Bulgarian school has been operating in Bajza u since the mid 1950s. It's a nice building under number 44. Prior to that, he received one or two classrooms in different Hungarian schools and used the gym. The school was initially located in the school building on Lónyay Street, on the same street as the seat of the association at the time and the first Bulgarian parish. Until the end of World War II, the Bulgarian school was maintained by the community. They also collected donations for heating, even for the poorer children, for clothing and care. The community of Bulgarian ethnicity in Hungary is proud of its minority language education school, its bilingual minority kindergarten in Bulgaria, the adult group Jantra and Martenica, the children's Roszica folk dance ensemble, the Zornica Women's Tradition Association and many other institutions. Malko Teatro, the first Bulgarian theatre company in Hungary, is especially kind to our hearts. From 1992, Haemus, the bilingual social and cultural journal of the Bulgarian Association of Hungary, is published. Since 2003, the Bulgarian National Municipality has published its paper under the name Balgarszki Veszti, Bulgarian Newspaper. The close relationship between the Bulgarian community and the mother country is also due to the outstanding work of the Bulgarian National Municipality. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Friendship costs nothing, but it gives a lot. It makes those who receive it richer, yet it does not bring those who give it to beggars. No one's rich enough to be without him, and no one's poor enough to be richer than him. It makes home, country happy, nourishes goodwill in business, and nature's best medicine against trouble. Our faith and roots bind us together, and we cannot forget this strong bond. Let us support each other and celebrate the Hungarian-Bulgarian, Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship together on 19 October each year. I would be honored to have your support for this. Thank you for letting me tell you, and thank you for listening. Благодаря завашето внимание!
u2016-09-26-236	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Bulgarian speaker, Mr Varga Simeon, for his speech. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate you will have a timeframe of about 4 minutes and 20 seconds to say the closing word. I am now asking whether, on behalf of the government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. I give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State. Time frame's five minutes.
u2016-09-26-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker Lords and Lady! Thank you very much and I am glad that one can be part of such a proposal; on the one hand, because there is a historical past that we are talking about and spoke about, and, on the other hand, because there is a present. And they're both very important. The historical past is important from the point of view mentioned by the speaker, Mr III. Our King Bela was not a gesture, but rather a Christian duty, which he had done to return the relics of St. Ivan, St. John, to Sofia, his predecessor at that time. Then they moved it from there to today's Rila monastery. I made a mistake in the previous session, and I would also like to correct myself, the date of 19 October, which, by the way, will mark the memorial day of Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship, is the day when the sacred relics were transferred to the Rila monastery. So this is one of the dates. The other is, and it is very important, a little connected to today's world, the nearly 500-year period of Ottoman Empire and occupation, which affected Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian nation. If it weren't for orthodox, if it wasn't for Christianity, we wouldn't be talking about Bulgaria today. So in this respect, the presence of the Bulgarian Church, orthodox, was very important, and perhaps the only lifeline that saved this nation. The following historical event is clear, the presence in Hungary, which was reported by Mr Spokesman on a longer and absolutely accurate basis. But part of that is the 100-year anniversary that the Bulgarian community celebrates this year. I am pleased to have met the Patriarch, on the one hand, as a spokesperson, out in Sofia and here in Budapest on the other. It is clear that there is a community of fate, the thinking that exists between our nations, what exists between our churches, what is in our Christendom, even if one is a Catholic Christian, the other is an Orthodox, and the third one is a Protestant church, but we still have it in our Christianity. This strengthens the relationship between the two nations; I think it may be the strongest rook in today's world. About the present, I think, there's little to talk about. It must be acknowledged that the Bulgarian people who lived here in Hungary, whether through Bulgarian gardening, through their culture or through contact with their mother country, have greatly strengthened the power of Hungary and the Hungarian nation. It's a big deal, and I want to thank you for that. However, it is no coincidence that since 2010, since the second and third Orbán governments have governed, we have multiplied the support of the Bulgarian community, as with other nationalities, the support needed for public education, cultural and municipal tasks has increased 2.4 times. I am pleased and thank you very much to the Bulgarian National Assembly, where you have already voted in favour of this, and have made this decision to make it the day of Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship on 19 October. It was only a sad part of today, and it was incomprehensible to me that, when we wanted to vote on this as a matter of urgency, to have this decision for a while, why was it that there were two Members at this time, and I said their names, László Varju and Ágnes Vadai, who refused to vote in favour, but abstained from this vote. I do not understand why Parliament cannot decide together at this time, while, for example, the committee meeting approved the proposal by 100% a few minutes ago and accepted the amendment with full agreement, which made this proposal a little better. I would like to thank Mr President, Members, Members, all of us and, of course, ethnic advocates for having done a great deal both to care for their language and to preserve their nationality over the last few years, and that is what this decision is about to do. I can say, of course, that the government supports all of this. Thank you so much for listening. [[18.10]]
u2016-09-26-238	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a six-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-239	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed the H/9425 on the Day of Hungarian-Bulgarian Friendship at its meeting on 26 September 2016. I would also like to read how it sounds - Mr Secretary of State has just referred to it. The amendment therefore reads: . He welcomes the decision of the Bulgarian legislature to declare 19 October the Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship Day so that they can celebrate this day together in our countries, deepening and strengthening the friendship between the two peoples. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This was, in part, an amendment to the position of the language, and refers to the fact that the rapporteur-general, Mr Varga Simeon, mentioned that this decision had already been taken unanimously by the Bulgarian legislation. For me - and for the rest of the IPU Group, I think, for its president, its Vice-President and its members - it was a great honor to join this motion. An important circumstance, once again referred to by the Secretary of State, was the recent meeting of the Committee, that both the intention to amend and the background paper, and the summary report, was voted and adopted by the Legislative Committee at its meeting today with a unanimous vote, with 33 votes in favour. This expresses the unity, at least at committee level, which is both necessary and desirable because it is an extremely important and important matter. We are close to October 19, so we hope that we will be able to celebrate this for the first time. If you will allow me, I would like to share with you that it is a special pleasure for me that we have reached this decision, and I trust that tomorrow we will also have a supportive decision from Parliament, even because my constituency, Budapest XVIII. Its district, Pestszentlőrinc and Pestszentimre also preserves and cherishes the memory of Bulgarian gardeners and Bulgarian gardeners who have been active there for a long, long time in our district. I also remember Uncle Todor from whom we bought, so this is a personal moment in this story, but much further than that, the points that the advocate or secretary of state has recommended to them. I would ask the Honourable Parliament, in the same way as the unanimous decision of the Legislative Committee, to support this proposal for a resolution tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-26-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the speeches from individual representatives. I would like to inform you that there is a time frame of 5-5 minutes per faction, and that there is a total of 3 minutes for independent Members. First I give the floor to Zsolt Németh, the representative of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-241	Mr President, Dear House, For Fidesz, it is my great pleasure to discuss today's presentation on the Hungarian-Bulgarian Friendship Day. We often hear that Hungarians and Bulgarians have mutual sympathy for each other. No doubt that's true. However, fewer people know that this sympathy has had concrete content for decades now. I'll give you some examples. For fifty years now, the Hungarian-Bulgarian recitation competition, which is the largest Hungarian poem in a non-Hungarian ethnic field, has been held in Sumen's town. For decades, the Liszt-Bartók Piano Competition has been held every other year at the Sofia Academy of Music, which is unique in Europe. Our historical traditions are well shown by Bulgarian officials each year placing a wreath at the statue of János Hunyadi at the site of the Battle of Varna. Each year, on 15 March, a wreath takes place at the Kossuth Lajos Memorial Museum and the Statue in Sumen, where the leader of the freedom struggle spent several months in his emigration years. Also on 15 March, a wreath will take place in Csíprovác, Bulgaria, at the recently inaugurated statue of István Dunyov, one of Lajos Kossuth's most loyal and Bulgarian soldiers of Bulgarian origin. Each year, on October 23, a wreath is placed at the bilingual memorial plaque of the Bulgarian poet Jordan Ruskov - I could have done the same. In October 56, Jordan Ruszkov wrote a solidarity poem with the Hungarian Revolution, which led him to spend seven years in forced labour camp from 1958 and not to publish until the change of regime. In Bulgaria, a separate museum commemorates Fülöp Kánitz, Félix XIX. Géza Fejér, an ethnographer who discovered and revealed one of the symbols of Bulgaria, is called Columbus of the Balkans and Ethnographer Géza Fejér. The most wonderful memory of the centuries-old protobolgarian kingdom, the rider of his birds. And to talk about the present time, Bulgaria is the country in which one of the most successful Hungarian Cultural Institutes operates, from which 120 Bulgarian teachers arrive every October through the Bulgarian Association of Local Governments in Dunament to participate in professional training in Budapest, where the two scientific academys organise a conference with a common historical theme every year, or where every year in July there is always a Hungarian evening at the largest jazz festival in the Balkans. Allow me to thank all those who initiated this memorial day and made it possible to adopt the decision. Thanks to Varga Simeon, the Bulgarian minority parliamentary advocate for the initiative. Thanks to each member of the Hungarian-Bulgarian friendly section of the IPU for the referral and for the consistent representation of the idea. Thanks to the Hungarian embassy in Sofia, András Klein, ambassadors of Tekla Harangozó, who conducted the necessary consultations. Mr. Miklós Soltesz, State Secretary, who proposed the date with the igumen of the picturesque Rila monastery. It is a special joy for me and the spiritual depth of relationships that the date of October 19 is about our common Christian heritage. According to the chronicles, they were returned on this day, as has already been said, the relics of the Bulgarian greatest saint Ivan Rila from the Hungarian Kingdom to the Bulgarian Kingdom III. Thanks to our King Bela. I would particularly like to highlight the Bulgarian supporters of this proposal, because Parliament has already unanimously accepted the proposal in Sofia, and Speaker Cecka Szacseva has personally informed Speaker László Kövér of this last week. Thank you to Mr. Dzhema Grozdanova, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Bulgarian Parliament, Mr. Valeriy Simeonov, co-chairman of the Bulgarian-Hungarian IPU and former Member of Parliament Lacsezar Tosev, expert, great friend of Hungary. I also thank Cardinal Péter Erdő and the Bulgarian Orthodox Patriarch Neofit, who, at their meeting in Budapest, also stood in public for the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, let me express my hope that the 19th of October will be an important day for the Hungarian-Bulgarian community as well. The community whose members are the descendants of Bulgarian gardeners, who, by preserving their Bulgarians, their diligence and their perseverance, and who, with their patriotism to Hungary, are now [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] For over a century, our country has been enriched. Two more sentences, Mr. President, if I may. This community, which celebrated this year the 100th anniversary of the existence of their church in Budapest in the presence of their greatest church-law dignity, Neofit in the presence of Patriarch Neofit, which inaugurated the Bulgarian gardener monument in Bosnyák Square on the 100th anniversary of their association last year, in the place of the former wholesale market, and which is among the most active in the establishment and maintenance of the Hungarian minority self-government system. The latter may not be surprising, since the spiritual father of this cultural autonomy system was their former leader, Dr. Doncsev Toso. Whether this system works: today the third minority speech has been delivered in the Hungarian Parliament, which may speak for itself. Wish us a happy October 19th! Thank you for your attention and patience. [[18.20]]
u2016-09-26-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sándor Szabó is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, trade, book printing and agriculture have been the main links of Hungarian-Bulgarian relations for 300 years. In the field of cultural relations, researchers examining relations between the two countries have primarily worked on literary works with scientific thoroughness. In February 1940, the first convention to increase cultural relations to the level of state obligations was concluded by Bálint Homan and the Cult Ministers of Bogdán Filov. The Bulgarian scientific centre at Pázmány Péter University had been operating for the seventh year. Allow me to say a few words about Bulgarian gardeners, although Varga Simeon has already explained it thoroughly. Indeed, it is the 15th. From the middle of the century onwards, with the expansion of the Turkish Empire, the Bulgarian population arrived in Hungary in several waves, settled permanently and found refuge here. After the Turkish occupation, trade relations have also been revived. The Balkan traders, including Bulgarian traders and Bulgarian gardeners, have played a significant role in this, who have introduced intensive watering vegetable cultivation throughout Hungary. Indeed, Bulgarian gardeners have made up for a shortage. They did not specifically apply as competitors in the competition sector, but rather used Bulgarian practice and experience. The Bulgarians in Hungary live in nearly 170 settlements all over the country. In the last 100-125 years, despite the stormy political and economic events, they have preserved their ethnic identity, organizational integrity, and in a short time they have played a very important role in the development of Hungarian garden culture, hidden professional catches of production methods, the introduction of more intensive varieties and new species. In general, it can be said that after 1878, following the establishment of the modern Bulgarian statehood, Hungary and Bulgaria's relations and foreign policy orientations were not characterised by confrontation, not conflicts, but rather by partnership and federal behaviour. This has certainly created favourable conditions for Bulgarian citizens living and already working here. The central public bodies and local authorities were more supportive than hindering the economic activity of Bulgarian residents and their legal affairs. In the life of Bulgarians, many communication scenes are of great importance today, which has also been mentioned. The mass meetings of today's Bulgarians take place at the Bulgarian cultural house and at the gatherings and celebrations organised elsewhere by the Association of Bulgarians in Hungary. The association, as an advocacy organisation, seeks to embrace the whole of the Bulgarian minority society. As has already been said, in 2016, the Bulgarian community celebrates the 100th anniversary of the operation of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Hungary. On this occasion, the spokesperson visited Sofia on 11 February 2016. There he met Mrs Dzhema Grozdanova, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the subject was indeed what the speaker mentioned here in Parliament on 5 October 2015, the creation of the Day of Hungarian-Bulgarian Friendship on 19 October and its adoption with a proposal for a resolution, and the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Hungary. The proposal for a resolution, which is now ahead of us, therefore welcomes the Republic of Bulgaria's intention to declare 19 October in Bulgarian legislation as a day of Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship, and, as has already been said, the Bulgarian National Assembly unanimously adopted it on 15 September this year by 130 votes in favour. The faction of the Hungarian Socialist Party and I - as a member of the Hungarian-Bulgarian department - are fully in favour of the adoption of the resolution proposal, taking into account the common historical and cultural heritage of the two peoples and in order to strengthen Hungarian-Bulgarian relations.
u2016-09-26-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. A speech from the Jobbik Group by Mr Sebestyén Vácsó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-245	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Minority Speaker, Mr Varga Simeon! I am honoured to be among the authors as the chairman of the Hungarian-Bolgar branch of the Hungarian-Bolgar Group of Friends of the IPU. As a result of my role in this, I have recently met with a Bulgarian delegation, a Bulgarian delegation, Bulgarian guests, either Commission presidents, committee members or high-ranking public actors. I had to experience what we had heard in the previous speeches, that history and our Christianity connected us. In addition, Annex XX is amended as follows: The second half of the 20th century and the 21st century The social transformations, social systems and social situation of the early 20th century are similar to those of the two countries. Therefore, in view of historical traditions and long-standing friendship between two peoples, this third aspect must also be taken into account when deciding on this day. When I was able to meet members of the delegation, guests or committee presidents, or politicians there, we could meet, often even have specific problems. I had to experience that many times the Bulgarian people, Bulgaria itself, have the same problems as Hungary. Of course, we are not the same, we are trying to find a different answer to each problem. I'd like to mention some of the problems. It is a big problem for them, too, to protect the rights of Bulgarians outside their borders, to represent their rights, interests, or to talk about the demographic crisis that is affecting several countries, including Hungary and Bulgaria. We can also talk about the problem that unfortunately affects some parts of the post-socialist countries in the European Union, and that is the fact, situation and state of emigration. With regard to Bulgaria, we are talking about a similar large number, and we have even talked about bigger numbers in Bulgaria than in Hungary. Therefore, taking this into account, the day of friendship can help to enhance communication and exchange. I'm saying that just as it's not a shame to learn from our own mistakes, it's not a shame to learn from anyone else's mistakes, but it's not a shame to take on good models, try ways that may have been successful in Bulgaria. Of course, we could find them. If I can come to my own area of social policy for a moment, then I can say that there are social policy issues for which the right answer has been found in Bulgaria. I think that, if we look at these, and even if we use such an excellent day to make relationships more lively, then the discussion in this direction, I could say, could be more vivid, and this could benefit both countries. If it is a day of such a friendship, it can, of course, not only establish relations at state level, not only at political level, but not only at the level of cultural actors, but also provide an opportunity for an average Hungarian citizen to learn more about Bulgarian culture in Bulgaria and Hungary, to meet Bulgarian culture more intensively within the framework of one day, within the framework of events and programmes. In this way, interest may develop, and perhaps not only friendship between states and countries, processes in this direction accelerate and develop intensively, but hopefully also individual friendships and friendships between Bulgarian and Hungarian people. I believe that this could be an even stronger bond between the two countries. Let us not forget that we are both in a similar situation in the European Union as post-socialist countries. Indeed, there is a need for as many strong friendships among these countries as possible, so that we can act together in similar problems, even on the European Union's side, to fight against decisions that are often unfavorable to us. That is why I am pleased that in this procedure the issue will be decided tomorrow. I hope that Parliament is 100% - [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] One moment, Mr President, I apologise - you unanimously accept the proposal for a resolution, so that we can express that we want to, and on 19 October this year we can celebrate this great day together with our Bulgarian brothers. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. President. [[18.30]]
u2016-09-26-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the KDNP Group, Mr Firtl Mátyás is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-247	Mr President, Dear Speaker Lady, Speaking Lords! Ladies and gentlemen, The day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship is another strong bond, a bond based on common values, which can connect and bridge the two nations. This is why it is exemplary that all the factions supported the Bulgarian ethnic advocate's motion regardless of party standing. It is an important element of the initiative, and it reminds us that this year the Bulgarian community, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, celebrates the 100th anniversary of its operation in Hungary. Their sense of identity strengthens the values that are the millennia values of the Hungarians. With their work and diligence, they have always enriched the community that took them in. Collaboration based on each other's common values, and forging into a real community, marked the centuries. Our relationship is based on common values, mutual respect, respect and friendship, diligence and desire to do things for our communities. I say this as a representative of my own nationality. During the meeting of the Hungarian and Bulgarian prime ministers, the Parliament decided to declare 19 October a day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship according to its wishes and bilateral will. This is an important element of the bilateral relationship system. It is a message that, according to the proposal for a decision, the Bulgarian legislation did the same. The Bulgarian National Assembly, as has been said, unanimously adopted 130 votes in favour of the Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship Day on 19 October. I think it is important that, in these very historical times of crisis, the Hungarian Parliament also adopts the resolution on this, so that we can celebrate this great day together this year. The proposal for a resolution also encourages the deepening of the friendly relationship between the two countries, the building of Bulgarian-Hungarian Christian relations, the remembering of our roots and the preservation of our faith. The date of October 19 is linked to the name of the patron saint of Bulgaria, St. John the Wondermaker. Ladies and gentlemen, A few thousand Bulgarian communities make Hungary more colourful and stronger. And a strong Hungary is in the interest of all citizens, communities and all members of our communities. This is why last year there was a significant increase in funding for nationalities, including increased budget support for Bulgarian communities in Hungary. This year's 2 billion-dollar increase could also result in a lot of previously missed investments, such as the renovation of the municipal headquarters, support for research institutes and acting. Thus, at a time when the aim is to preserve the identity of Hungary and Europe, when we continue our struggle for the survival of our Christian national existence, it is essential to have a value-giving, value-making community like the Bulgarian community, because few nations can say that they were able to remain half a millennium old, as has already been said, even after the Muslim occupation, and in this they also played a significant role in the Church that protects language, culture and traditions. Nationalities, including our Bulgarian nationality, have always carried out a mission to have a good relationship between a nation and a nation, to serve the strengthening of these values based on spiritual resources. Having felt our responsibility for Bulgarian communities, it is important to stress that their community found a second country in Hungary, and the development of a dual identity was a guarantee of inclusive tolerance in Szent István, which is typical of the Hungarian nation, against all those who come to us with good intentions. Ladies and gentlemen, It is good to see, to experience, to learn from the fact that the Bulgarians in Hungary form a cohesive and very persistent community, the example of which proves that it is worth living well and surviving the storms of history, setting an example for the other national communities, as well as for the majority of society. Finally, I trust him as a Croatian national - I must say now - that if the Croatian government is established, the same day of Hungarian-Croatian friendship can indeed take place in the Hungarian Parliament in the coming time, and so will the day of Hungarian-Croatian friendship. I wish that we can really celebrate 19 October in this spirit, in the spirit of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship, as affiliated national brothers. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-26-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Varga Simeon, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate; it has a time frame of 4 minutes and 20 seconds. No? [[Varga Simeon: No.]] No. Thank you very much. I think everyone's saying positive things, that's understandable. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. It is now time to continue and conclude the general debate on the bill on civil procedure. The government referral is T/11900. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I would remind you that during the opening of the general debate, the rapporteur's opening speech and the speaker's speech were made. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. Independent Member László Varju has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, please. [[László Varju: I wanted to address the previous agenda, not now.]] Thank you very much. So László Varju, an independent Member, accidentally pressed the button to another item on the agenda. [[László Varju: previous item in the agenda.]] So you have already pressed this item for the post-meeting speech, but we have not yet closed this item. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Yes, he does. I give you the floor, Secretary of State, you have a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a few thoughts about what was said in the lead speaker's round. There have been comments that there has not been enough time to prepare this bill, and there has not been enough consultation in professional institutions. In this connection, I would just like to point out that the drafting of the norm and the publication of the administrative settlement were preceded by three months of prior substantive, professional and social consultation. Since the adoption of the concept, we have presented the proposal at more than 20 professional events and debates across the country, and then it has only been presented to this House. He was also consulted throughout the negotiations with the President of the National Court of Justice Office, the Kúria, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the Hungarian Chamber of Law, the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries, the Chamber of Hungarian Judicial Experts, and said this in his exposé. It has been said that the protégé lawyer system is not included in the proposal. After this isn't Pp. It's part of Pp. After its adoption, this institution will have to be adapted to the new rules of procedure, and this will indeed be a task that we will be dealing with. [[18.40]] An accusation has been made that lawsuits in relation to family law will be undermined. In fact, they will expand, since the lawsuits on parental supervision will be included, and they will become a lawsuit on the exercise of parental control, i.e. on the status of a person, which protects the children's interests. To present evidence that the use of experts will cost money. At present, expert costs need to be advanced, and legal aid rules are regulated separately, not on expert issues. So this answer also settles this issue with satisfaction. Also, the question of lawsuits of public interest was why this circle was not wider. After a new institutional system, of course, after the current launch of labour law litigation and consumer litigation, the portfolio is open to the extension of subsequent Pp amendments to other cases, based on the experience gained. That is what I wanted to add to what has been said. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-26-250	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. If Tamás Turgyán Armenian ethnic advocate takes his place, I can give the floor. He arrived at this moment. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You will have the floor in five minutes with the title "The 25th Anniversary of the Anniversary of Independent Armenia."
u2016-09-26-251	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Twenty-five years ago, the Armenian people declared their independence from the falling Soviet Union with an overwhelming referendum, creating the independent Armenian statehood that had been oppressed for centuries. Because of Armenia's geographical situation, because it lies on the borders of two continents, it was forced to suffer the rule of the Assyrians, the Greeks, the Romans, the Byzantines, the Arabs, the Mongolians, the Persians, the Turks and the Russians. In his long history independence was rarely given, until at the end of World War I the winning Antente powers decided to divide Turkey. Armenia has been recognised and territories have been attached to it. It's called or was called Armenia, Wilson, after the name of the then president of the United States. This peace, together with the existence of an independent Armenia, was rejected by the Turkish national movement. As a result of the Turkish-Armenian war in 1920, Armenia lost half of its pre-war territory, the whole of Armenia in Wilson, and the freedom it longed for. This year, the 11th Soviet army, led by Grigori Orjonikidze, invaded Armenia, and the short-lived Armenian Republic collapsed. The Bolshevik Russia has annexed the Armenian Democratic Republic and, together with Georgia and Azerbaijan, has made it part of the Trans-Caucasian Soviet Federal Republic. This organization existed until 1936, when it was distributed to three separate Soviet socialist republics, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia.In 1943, after Stalin's death, Soviet pressure was relieved, so the Armenian Church was revived. And in 1967 the monument of the Armenian genocide was inaugurated in Yerevan. During the period of Gorbachov in the 1980s, the Armenians had already protested against the environmental damage caused by the Russian factories planted there. The Armenian-Azerian conflict, which has been preserved since Stalin, was only increased by the 1988 Armenian earthquake and Gorbachev's inability to solve the problems of both countries, especially the fate of Karabah. The intense tension has led to a war between Armenia and Azerbaijan. This issue is still not settled.In 1991 the Soviet Union broke up, Armenia regained its independence. Armenia was the first republic outside the Baltic to replace it from the Soviet Union on 23 August. The question may arise as to what we actually have to do with this. In addition to the fact that the break-up of the Soviet Union, the democratisation of the 90's, gave us the opportunity to feel at home again in our own country, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian nation, have struggled a lot in their history, fought and suffered for this. And in this battle, and then, a thousand years ago, his companions are the Armenians who ran against their fates and oppressors to the Carpathian Basin and fled. Let them be II. The Armenian knights, diplomats and merchants escorting our King Endre home from his crusade, or the 17th. In the century Apafi Mihály and Maria Teresia gave her residence permit, merchants and industrialists working in Transylvania; be the descendants of the 57 families who had been given noble titles for the service of the Hungarian country before 1848; or be the 77 Armenian officers and hundreds of soldiers who participated in the 1848-49 War of Independence; be it the Vilmos Lázár and Ernő Kiss, who had been executed by Haynau on 6 October 1849 in Arad; be the Gergely Pongrátz, who was the hero of the Corvin public during the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence; and be the anonymous ones who served Hungary with their work, spirituality, culture and art until today - we hope for a very long time. Independent Armenia plays a symbolic role for the Armenian community of the world, as it is a tangible example of the unity and desire of a people that has been a minority for a long time in the games of great empires. The Armenians in Hungary are proud to think of Armenia, the motherland, where their ancestors once came from, and we also feel the responsibility that lies with us in settling the corrupt relations and relations between our country and Armenia. We wish the free and independent Armenian Republic good luck! And we trust that one day we can talk about the celebration of the day of Armenian-Hungarian friendship in the walls of this House. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-26-252	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. He applied for a post-meeting speech. What will happen to you, Hungarian countryside? Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-26-253	Thank you for the floor and for the opportunity, Mr President, and I welcome my fellow Members. In this series after the agenda, I always try to raise current and important problems affecting the countryside, Hungarian agriculture or the rural Hungarian population in a broader sense. What would be more relevant today than the matter of hunting and the distribution of hunting grounds? I sincerely believed that this would not be a party political issue, and we do not have to talk about it here in Parliament. In fact, I can say this in the name of the entire Jobbik faction, because last year we supported the Hunting Law, the redeployed law, because it was the opinion of the profession that, unlike usual, they were asked for their opinion, the right quality and quantity of negotiations were carried out. I, too, saw and saw that there was an appropriate, professionally supported proposal before this House. But then, in the usual way to Fidesz, we could experience what this looks like in practice, how these areas are being redistributed. I must say that we have now received signals that are extremely worrying and which we must definitely speak of from nearly half of the country's counties. Of course, in the form of a written question, in Parliament's speech, we keep the government accountable for these suspicious transactions, but we are receiving extremely ridiculous misconceptions as a response, while asking the hunters concerned themselves, it may be clearer to anyone that they were unprofessional decisions made by the State. We must talk about the cases where the Hungarian State has its own territory and, in a particular case, takes the side of a particular initiative, a hunting company, among the walls of Parliament. The question is always: when the state, public decision-makers, makes their own decisions, what are the reasons why they do so? Why does the State help the initiative with its own areas? And if this question is addressed in specific cases, then it is easy to find the political thread. Borsod, Bács-Kiskun county, Zala, Somogy county, Csongrád, Győr-Moson-Sopron county, Vas county are some examples, and I would like to describe them very briefly. It is interesting, for example, when, in Csongrád county, professionally, from a wild management point of view, a 13,000-acre hunting area is appointed. This is certainly not a coincidence: Minister Lazarus' favourite hunting ground, where he himself hunts and is an active participant in this community. All of this is marked as losing to all the other hunting companies in the county. I am talking about companies that have been in fair cooperation with the landowners all along, have never had a dispute, or, even if they did, have a satisfactory settlement for both parties. [[18.50]] They had no public debt, and from a wild management point of view, the SEC has never found anything wrong with their previous operations. So it is completely incomprehensible to us in these cases why these companies had to be eliminated. But ominous news has also come from Somogyország, where the Claessens family - you do not need to be introduced, as they have helped this Belgian family to grow further with a thousand hectares of state land - for example, their initiative to create a hunting company has been reported to be supported by the state against the problem-free former company of long-standing locally living farmers and hunters, thus making their wildlife management impossible. But I also have to mention my narrower country, Győr-Moson-Sopron County, where during the Island, through huge scandals, you may remember, it also reached the walls of the House, and we talked about it here when it was issued on behalf of the dead, and it became a huge legal dispute. Now, the Szigetköz again cannot rest, and it is said that Árpád Habony's circle of friends himself and he himself put his hands on one of the companies, thus reaching out to the previously well-functioning company and then the state will cancel it. But there is also a problem at the border between County and Vas County, where a newly formed company with a local fidesz tailwind makes three already existing companies in Celldömölk and in the area impossible, taking out the most valuable public areas from them, and once again, we have not received an entirely unjustified, one sound argument. But I can almost tell you the same story about the other counties. Therefore, I am here once again stressing their demand for honest hunters, and I ask the members of the government to inform both them and us about how these outrageous decisions could have been made. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varju applied for a post-meeting address concerning the events of the last week. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-255	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The issue of health is an issue that is perhaps worth mentioning here today for two reasons. One is the report that came to light during the month of September and presents the results of the investigations carried out by GPs, and the other is that, with this report and the experience gained so far, there is a crisis that I believe needs to be discussed in all possible forms of work between Parliament's walls. Today, we have managed to talk about this in several forms, but it is necessary to point out again and again that, while the Orbán government is pursuing a policy that does not spare our children, we can safely say that, because Fidesz is spending more than 10 billion forints on the pseudo-popular vote that we are facing, while not dealing with the obvious situation, the shortage of our pediatricians at all. 400 pediatricians are missing from this country. I would like to emphasise once again that 400 pediatricians are missing from this country. We could mention, of course, hospital waiting lists, lack of medication, the fact that the pencil element is brought into the blood pressure meter by those concerned themselves, that if they want it to happen, then there should be such a thing, we could talk about the fact that healthcare workers leave the country, three people a day, and this leaves a mark, and what is waiting for us here in the next period, let's just talk about this one: 400 home-patient clinics are missing an appropriate doctor. I can also add the data that, on the basis of this record, research and expression, the situation is aggravated by the fact that 25 percent of those operating in other places today are over 65 years old and 45 percent are over 60 years old among pediatricians practicing today, which means that there will be a huge problem here in the near future, and the government is facing an almost unsolvable situation, and this is the result of the irresponsible situation that has taken place in the last half a decade. Think of the situation of a family that has to travel up to 40 kilometers in order to have a child in the family, get a pediatrician in health care, or even prescribe a drug for him. For this reason, in the seventh year of the Orbán government, the government has a special responsibility for all that has happened, whether in the wage increase or in the career model, in the absence of its development, and the emigration has created such a situation. Because of the absence of professionals who are caring for the children of other families today, I think that they cannot be whipped, but the Orbán government is all the more so. In particular, we can do this because the Health Act requires, as a special task, and in particular for the Government and its maintenance institutions, the obligation to provide the professional conditions necessary for the provision of health services, as laid down in a separate Act. The government does so by neglecting and creating such a situation, while, as I have said, spending tens of billions in its policy on a simple information campaign, creating such a situation in health care. That is why the Democratic Coalition is protesting against all of this, and there is a solution to this area, which requires a different policy and a different government. Therefore, all good people must protest against the pointless referendum and the billions thus spent. Your children need this. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2016-09-26-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Loránt Hegedűs, notary of the Parliament, asked to speak after the agenda of the Jobbik Group on the topic of daily migration. Here you go.
u2016-09-26-257	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As an introduction, I would like to quote you from a letter from a city manager. In the last few years, it has been the practice of farmers to accommodate residents in outbuildings, economic buildings or even external containers for a longer period of time, inaccessible to human residence and in a form. This seems to be the easiest and cheapest solution for local farmers to receive and employ seasonal workers. Earlier, these seasonal workers left the settlement after the work had been completed - we know that most of them are coming from Romania - but most of them are still here today. Their number and proportion can only be estimated, since they do not have a residence permit or any registered address. The domestic legal system does not impose any registration obligation, and consequently the municipality does not have any information, nor does it provide for the number of persons who are living at a given time in the municipality, nor does it provide for their distribution by sex and age. The biggest problem is the families of the workers and the minor children of the families. We can't even estimate the number of children roaming the streets or the border. Children often do not have the birth certificate, but the most serious problem with basic health care is the lack of knowledge of so-called medical history and the vaccination book. For years, the general pediatrician has been constantly indicating that in education-education institutions there have been various epidemics in the past. Thus, over the last few months, parents, institutional leaders and educators have constantly requested and expected action from the municipality. As we know, as I have just mentioned, most of the stakeholders come from Romania and, as an EU Member State, no registration is made for border crossings. As a result, the 90-day stay issue is completely uncontrollable, with a tourist passport people have been staying here for years. [[19.00]] The municipality has been asking for the help of the various authorities - border guards, Immigration Office, ÁNTSZ, police, NAV, labour inspectorate and so on - but the problem has not been dealt with effectively. Or maybe they don't want to, I don't know. In the interest of the municipality, the municipality would like to know who is staying in the settlement at a given time, and to do so in a building suitable for human residence, and those who work here do not work black, but do not work as declared, and in a way and form that meets all labour, taxation requirements, and that their living life already complies with the Community standards of co-existence established in an average rural settlement. So far, the quote. Dear House, The situation outlined in the previous quote is a real social problem, we can say that this is the daily practice of migration in our country, and unfortunately in many settlements of the Great Plain. I mention just a few places: Alsónémedi - from here the quote was, there were many articles about the situation there - Szentkirály, Nagykőrös, Ásotthalom. Local authorities are not being instrumental to this extremely urgent task. As we can see, the involvement of the public authorities in the case did not mean any meaningful progress, and even when a local government in question wanted to stop this migration process under a municipal tax regulation, the regional government office prevented it from providing real help with legal rabbinics. So the settlements are waiting for an answer. What does the government intend to do to ensure that this illegal situation and mass phenomenon, let us say, is held back? And how does the government intend to help the local authorities fight this kind of illegal migration? The situation is becoming increasingly urgent and needs to be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-258	Thank you very much, notary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Mr Ander Balázs of the Jobbik Group also applied to speak after the agenda:. Did you know that? Because of the government, a large number of workers are kept in line with the title of the Wild Capitalist Market for Security Guards. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-09-26-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I myself have now spoken half a dozen times between the walls of this House, talking about the problems of workers in the field of personal and property protection, and I wanted to highlight the problems of a specific area of this sector in particular. In particular, the railway guards, the railroad guards I was so kind to, and on one occasion I even brought the pacsameta of protesting petitions to the honourable pro-government representatives, I surprised them, because these people, these really hard-working little people, are afraid of being outdated to this day, keeping them in a completely uncertain queue, and organizing their activities to some great parasite with good political relations, who will draw a great deal of pain from it. Despite the fact that there are some 3,400 companies in the area and over 107 thousand people work here and have valid permits, for some reason the government has no interest in ordering things in this sector. Even the system of national cooperation refuses to listen to them, shake off the problems of these people like a dog does water. Unfortunately, in many cases it is what one says here, because they refuse to deal with the problems of these workers, and perhaps not by accident, because experts say that the annual turnover of the property protection sector amounts to about HUF 1000 billion, and about 40 percent of this is allocated to these often selected companies by public procurement, or even by local government. So we're talking about a huge piece of konc, a large, largely tax-paying forints filled with greasy bulge, from which a lot of people get rich, but a lot of people suffer from a lot of work. Where, by the way, subcontractors of subcontractors are free to raid, and when the main contractors acquire these greasy snacks, they spread their hands, they say that they are trying to force the legal things and the legal conditions on subcontractors; however, they do not see a trace of this in very, very many cases. This is why we find that at the top of the network there is a billionaire extra profit, but at the bottom of the pyramid we can see huge problems for simple workers, ordinary security guards, security guards, these 100,000 people - respect, by the way, for honest, honest - working companies. The most wild neoliberal, wild capitalist sympathies were listed in the recent paper published on the workplaceterror.blog.hu, in which the opinion of the Ministry of National Development, for example, in the case of MÁV, was discussed. Vasútőr Kft. the activities of one of its subcontractors at the Western Railway Station, and the anonymous author summarises, quote, the complaints of workers used as doormats, who have been tortured to the extreme. This would also be disgusting even if we were indirectly involved not by a public company, but, let's say, in free market conditions. According to the author of the article, there is no rest period, no vacation, no sick leave; there is, however, 300 hours of slave labor per month, and all sorts of said deductions from miserable wages, and I apologize to put it this way, but the employer's garbage is such a rich storehouse that makes it clear that in many cases workers leave this country not because of low wages, but because of all the depravities they sometimes face from employers. But beyond the specific railway patrol case, there are, by law, some general considerations here. The question is rhetorical, since it would obviously harm the financial interests of a number of government-to-government entrepreneurs, but why can't it be eliminated, let's say, in public companies, this whole sub-contraction? What is the need for parasite interlocking links? Why should companies of certain individuals be allowed to stand between the state and the citizen, in fact, as slave owners? In particular, for example, things can be said here that there is a government member whose former companies receive a net turnover of 15.5 billion by employing only 168 people. I ask the question because it is necessary to ask why a KDNP in its ranks is not accepted by the government coalition XIII. The words in Pope Leo's Rerum novarum, according to which people are not actually meant to serve as the object of pure profit, because it is a very, very ugly thing. According to Jobbik, the employment policy that Fidesz is implementing here leads the country towards a total social disaster. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-26-260	I respectfully inform the Member that the representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your full day's work. Parliament will resume the session at 8 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a restful, good, good night. [[Meeting ended at 7:08 p.m.]] Mrs Loránt Violin Sz.k. Diligent Dezső s.k. notary
