u2016-05-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. The 23rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today, on 10 May, we celebrate the day of birds and trees, the tradition of which dates back over a hundred years. In 1902, in Paris, European States signed a convention for the protection of birds of agricultural use. Even this year, ornithologist István Chernel organized a thematic memorial day in Hungary for the first time in the world, then 110 years ago the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian government took the necessary steps. Count Albert Apponyi, Minister of Religion and Public Education, decreed in 1906 that the day of birds and trees should be celebrated annually in all schools. In the framework of this, children planted trees, planted birdhouses, took part in competitions, excursions, and became acquainted with the basics of nature conservation. The Hungarian Parliament is the LIII of 1996 on nature conservation. in law he once again declared the importance of this day, thus expressing the commitment of all of us to the protection of nature. The Hungarian Society for Birding and Nature Protection launched its programme of the bird of the year almost thirty years ago for the purpose of presenting and protecting the species at the social level. In 2016, Haris won the most votes. Similar initiative launched by the National Forestry Association twenty years ago, Tree of the year movement. This year, the plums of the field won this title, which is native to much of Europe; it is among the oldest trees planted; its huge size was respected as a sacred tree, and even laws were proclaimed under them. Ladies and gentlemen, We celebrate nearly 20 green days a year, World Nature Day. They are suitable for us to feel the responsibility we owe to our children and grandchildren. Our task must be to prevent the shrinking of natural habitats, the extinction of wild plant and animal species, and to reduce their pace. Today, on the day of birds and trees, let us consider what we can do to preserve nature for posterity, so that our grandchildren and their grandchildren can enjoy the company of the shady trees. Thank you for your attention. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, notary of the Parliament, has applied for a pre-meeting speech: the Hungarian position on TTIP? It's an address. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2016-05-10-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, According to the 2015 report of the International Organization of Oxfam Oxford, 62 people in the world today have the same wealth as 3.5 billion people. The wealthiest 1 percent is greater than the other 99 percent. Shocking data! The wealth of 62 people has increased by 44 percent since 2010, while the income of the poor has fallen by 41 percent. It also shows that wealth and poverty have been maintained and reclaimed by mechanisms and institutions in the world, and to a growing extent, as the main objective of many priority international documents has been to combat poverty for decades. One of these mechanisms is the institution of free trade agreements. This ensures the free movement of capital and multinational companies between the regions and countries of the world. We can see the result: capital takes everything. It takes people's decent livelihoods and brings about the sustainability of our natural environment. This is why it is of particular importance that the U.S.-eU. Free Trade Agreement on the Sundan fur be concluded. According to Péter Szijjártó, TTIP is one of the most important documents in world trade, and TTIP is strongly supported - the government, but not LMP. Mr Orbán said that free trade agreements should be sought with all countries. Unfortunately, by now, we have no doubt that the Orbán government is in favour of the trade agreement planned between the EU and the US, although for some time there has been a double speech. And since the government supports the Free Trade Agreement, which only wins by the rich and the multi-nationals, it was not surprising that the deep silence surrounding Greenpeace's leaked documents about the state of play of the secret negotiations on 13 issues conducted by the European Commission and the representative of the US Government in April. Published materials should make everyone think, everyone who fears for national sovereignty; they fear for the local economy, jobs, food safety, GMO-free. Everything the government called alarm and baseless accusations has been confirmed. It turns out that the convention involves reducing the powers of Parliament; abandoning the regulations that guarantee the quality of life of Hungarian and European people; further auctioning of Hungarian self-determination. According to the documents, the precautionary principle, which is one of the most important principles of environmental protection, would be removed. In English: according to EU principles, the first thing to prove about a material is that it is not harmful, and only then can it be released to the market. But in the USA, it's the other way around: it's already on the market, and then it's only necessary to prove it's harmful. Without it, it cannot be banned. In the post TTIP world, the principles of the US would be binding. Another big problem is that the EU has so far hidden the extent of the influence of the large industry. The EU's various reports and documents mention only one-off, minimal input from the multinationals, while the current reports literally state that the views of large companies have been sought and that there is a need for further consultation in the negotiations. By the way, civil society, workers' organisations, in fact, have handled the documents in a super-secret way in front of people, not only did they not ask for their opinion, but they did not even let me look at the documents. [[9.10]] It also shows what agreement the Fidesz-MSZP-DK's Grand Coalition supports in the European Parliament. One that is urged by large companies on both sides of the Atlantic and by the European Commission representing their interests. This agreement is negotiated behind the backs of the Hungarian and European people. This Convention violates the national interests of Hungary. Dear House, The government seems to be worth putting the health of Hungarian people at risk when it comes to the interests of multinational companies and the Juncker Commission. If at any time, then the right moment has come for the Hungarian government to stop saying nothing diplomatically and announce, to veto the treaty. That's what we expect from the government. If you do that, it could lead to the collapse of the fluctuating pact. That's the national interest. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-10-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Levente Magyar responds to the speech before the agenda. We'll wait for Secretary of State to put the microphone on. Yeah, it's okay. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-10-3	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, We have been having a dialogue between Parliament's walls on the TTIP agreement and its preparations for a long time, and I have the feeling that we are speaking side by side, dear Member, because our supportive position is a position in principle, an openness in principle that, if a text is finalised that is acceptable to Hungarian interests, we will not put an obstacle to the adoption of the agreement. We're basically pro-free trade. I think we can do this openly and proudly. This is the position of principle in terms of the Hungarian economy and the stimulus of the Hungarian foreign trade. We traditionally support all international agreements aimed at facilitating trade and removing barriers to trade that could open the way for Hungarian products to travel abroad. I think, honourable Member, that this is also the political duty of the Hungarian export structure, the basically export-oriented structure of the Hungarian economy. So once again, it's a principled openness. In the light of the details, we will be able to state our exact position. I think, Madam honourable Member, that there will be a time for an appropriate moment when the document to be prepared will be widely consulted, both on the part of the EU and on the part of the main participants in the negotiations. At the same time, let us bear in mind that, in such a complex negotiation process, it is not realistic that, at an initial stage of negotiations or even at a current stage of negotiations, the group of speakers will be infinitely wide open and make these documents publicly available, because this would obviously lead to negotiations not being effective. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are currently in the middle of negotiations on TTIP. The text of the agreement will thus continue to be shaped, and so will be until the partners agree on each subject. In the context of the TTIP negotiations, the scope of the Commission's manoeuvre is determined by the negotiating mandate received from the Council. This mandate states, inter alia, that the agreement should not lead to a reduction in the level of European high environmental standards, including GMOs, health, animal and plant health, labour law standards. The Commission will negotiate in accordance with the negotiating mandate until the negotiations are concluded until the agreement is reached. The United States, as a partner, is also guided by its own economic and political aspects from an economic or negotiating point of view, as well as the EU and 28 EU Member States. As a result, the partner may want a more liberal EU regulation for GMO products, but he has no chance of doing so either because of the EU mandate or because of the Hungarian position. Documents and information published on the Internet should also be evaluated and interpreted in this context. I do not wish to address the authenticity of the documents, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that they concern only certain chapters of the negotiations, those where there is a consolidated text, i.e. where the parties could at least agree on the structure of the chapters and the approach. We currently have such a text for 14 of the 25 chapters, as expected. So there are 11 more chapters, Congresswoman, where there is no consolidated text. These include, for example, the chapter on the precautionary principle, to which the congresswoman has also drawn attention. I would also like to note that it is only the first step to agree on the consolidation of the US and EU offers, and then to agree on the content of the compromise text, but we are still far from it as it stands. With regard to the publicity of the negotiations, I would like to point out that the Commission's offers are available on the Commission's official website, and that a reading room is also available to the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, where they can read the authentic consolidated documents. However, if the EU partner, the United States, does not wish to share its offers with the public, the EU is not in a position to publish these documents without its consent. Given the progress of the negotiations, it is highly doubtful how far we can get this year, but I would like to point out once again that if the agreement is reached, the Hungarian Parliament will also have to approve it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would therefore like to reassure you that you will have the opportunity to vote in your conscience to accept this document and, even at this stage, to prevent the adoption of it by a sufficient majority in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-10-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sándor Burány, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title "Two-country." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-10-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, We're gonna need a turnaround. We need a turnaround in politics, we need a turnaround in governance. There is a need for a turnaround to support a majority in difficulty rather than a minority in good standing. This is because in 2010, you, your government, led this country on a path that, if we do not stop this process, could turn into a disaster in the medium term. It could turn into a disaster, because an increasing number of skilled people will leave the country, and in a few years, decades, if this policy continues, Hungary would become a country of underqualified public workers and pensioners. We have to stop this from happening with all our energy. There is a need for a turnaround, because when you came to power in 2010, you immediately increased the minimum wage tax, the minimum wage, which had been exempt until then, by means of one of your first measures. As a result, instead of zero per cent, 15 per cent of the wages of the lowest earners should now be taxed. Another measure - although it has been forgotten since then - has introduced a two million-dollar pay ceiling in the public sector. The latter, by the way, would have made sense, it's interesting that this is exactly what they took back. But they did not stop taxing the minimum wage, they further increased the problems faced by those in difficulty by transforming the social system, essentially eliminating and removing a large part of social aid, and removing it from the municipalities, putting those who were already in trouble. [[9.20]] It is no coincidence that they are becoming more coy, and the Central Statistical Office does not intend to communicate a minimum of living calculated according to the previous methodology; it is true that instead, research institutes did so during the same methodology. And the numbers are scary and tragic, ladies and gentlemen. The figures show that more than 4 million people live in Hungary today below the minimum living standards. The figures show that since 2010, since you have been ruling, I am sorry, since you have been in power, poverty has not decreased, but has grown in Hungary, and this is not only tragic, but also extremely shameful. Speaking of government, the other serious mistake is that you mistake government for power. The essence of governance would be to serve the common good. If they cared about large supply systems, they would care about education and care about health. Instead, they care not at all about the common good, but about their own goodness, their own remuneration. The exercise of power has taken on a professional and gigantic scale, draining public funds to build an unprecedented clientele. The clans have been created, the cultures have been created, and it is no coincidence that more and more people who were not previously on the list of hundreds of richest Hungarians are now directly linked to Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister and his environment. Meanwhile, perhaps two of the largest and most important supply systems, education and health care, have simply rotted. You were only interested in centralization, dissipating education in Hungary by appointing incompetent people, causing an increasing problem in the learning of emerging generations. That is why we need a turnaround; a turnaround to fulfill your original promises, and, for example, to restore the 2 million wage ceiling in the state sphere, which you have undone, and we need a turnaround because you have not reversed the shameful taxing of the minimum wage. We need to reduce taxes on low-income earners again. We need a turnaround, because we need to restore the honor of government, instead of increasing private wealth, we need a democratic government to care for the common good again. And lastly, but first of all, we should be supporting the needy majority instead of the top ten and the buddies instead of the top ten and the grooming clientele. Ladies and gentlemen. You are incapable of this turn of events, which is why you must fail. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-10-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-10-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman, you used the word "public drain." I would like to respond briefly to this. You referred to a study and suggested that it be measured as an argument. Well, it's a study whose creators were co-workers of a former Socialist minister, and its leader previously ran a company called Ecostat, which alone received HUF 910 million during socialist government. So much for draining public funds. As a matter of fact, I think it is very important for me to take stock of what the next year's budget will bring to each social group and what those in need can expect. I think we disagree on a lot of things, but we may agree that the shortest way out of poverty is work, if everyone has a job. Despite the mandatory criticisms of opposition, you may not question the importance of the fact that there are more people living on the job than before and not on aid. The number of people employed is now over 4.2 million, which is more than 500 thousand jobs compared to 2010. With public employment, the government also offered opportunities for those who temporarily found inadequate jobs in the labour market. In your time, they could expect a much lower amount of aid. And as far as working abroad is concerned, weren't you the ones who settled the country by opening a bakery in Vienna? ! And then, a few years later, they're using it for political hysteria. With regard to tax reductions, including those in need, their burden can be significantly reduced by the fact that next year the VAT on the most important food, milk, poultry and eggs will be reduced to 5 percent. Prior to this, the VAT on pigmeat fell to 5 percent this year, and this will make it easier for beginners, people living in modest financial conditions and pensioners alike. Next year, 15 percent will remain, and thanks to these tax cuts, it will be 35-40 thousand HUF more than a Hungarian family next year. VAT reductions and tax reductions are also a reduction in the burden for pensioners. The reduction in the VAT of the most important food practically doubles the rate of the pension increase. I would like to raise one more important question: the issue of having children. I'm bringing this here because, in the past, it was a serious problem that childbearing increased the risk of poverty. The government broke up with this and introduced a tax system that provides adequate support to parents depending on the number of children raised. This contributes to the creation of more children without reducing the expected standard of living. As far as children are concerned, the government will continue to provide free textbooks and children's meals. There are two other things that have significantly increased the risk of poverty, and these are foreign exchange lending and energy prices. That's why the government decided to charge the bank, and that's why it decided to cut the energy prices by a quarter. As you can see, a number of decisions have been taken by the government to improve the situation of people living in more modest financial conditions. If the Parliament accepts next year's budget, they can take a step forward. However, this does not mean that there is not much to do yet, on the contrary, there is only work to be done. Allow me to conclude with a few suggestions. I'm doing this because you've held three positions of State Secretary in previous cycles, and you were also a minister, so you can ask me a few questions; for example, where you were when energy prices doubled. Did he raise his word when a month's pension was taken from the elderly? Have you done anything to stop the foreign exchange loan from jumping, against hundreds of thousands being trapped in a debt trap? How do you see your own responsibility for doubling unemployment by MSZP, and thus also the risk of poverty? A lot of questions we often raise here, but we never get an answer. And not for nothing, because what the MSZP did in the name of government was a failure carved in stone, not only for those in need, but also for the country as a whole. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-10-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the KDNP fraction, Mr Péter Harrach, leader of the group, applied for a speech before the agenda:. The 2017 budget. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2016-05-10-9	Mr President, Dear House, A budget consists of numbers, but it carries spirituality, reflecting the values of a political force. For us, social policy issues are important, and in this budget there is a picture of a healthy society. When I say healthy society, of course, I don't just mean physical health. In this budget, there are items showing evidence that the government not only accepts society but also forms it. The two must be proportionate, and it is good to take political action if you can maintain this proportionality, because you have to accept it with your weaknesses, your strength, your great being, your qualities. At the same time, the human opinion, the public thinking of society, must be shaped, as this is the essence of political responsibility. If someone understands that, they're good at politics, but if they don't accept people, they're gonna fall for it sooner or later. If, on the other hand, it is not able to shape public thinking, then stop taking political action. Because it should not only be an aspect of the increase in votes in a political action, but also a lot of other things, the exercise of responsibility. But let's look at the numbers, not just the thoughts. It is important for us to improve families, their situation, improve the situation of disadvantaged people and, as I said, to implement the conditions of a healthy society. [[9.30]] Of course, this includes predictability, such as career models, but also the service of physical and mental health. Let me stop here for a moment: the primitive and deplorable criticisms that appear in the comparison of sports developments, do not serve reality and the development of a healthy society, but something quite different. What does it mean to support families? We are primarily thinking about tax relief, and here we have taken another step forward, which affects 350,000 families. The increase in the tax relief of two children is now 15 thousand forints per child per month, i.e. 30 thousand forints for two children. Please note that this tax reduction can also be described from the contributions to our initiative. In five years, he left 930 billion forints in the family, a million for 100,000 families with this support element. Allow me to refer to a few more items: the creation of homes, which also affects the lives of families, represents HUF 211 billion in this budget. I could refer to the introduction of family home support. Tax cuts, 5% VAT, are also in the interest of families, the VAT on milk, poultry and eggs. And what do the underprivileged get? I would highlight the public works programmes, as this is an extremely important part of social and employment policy. In 2009, the government spent a total of HUF 2 billion on public works. In 17 it will be HUF 325 billion. It's a huge difference, it gives jobs to people who wouldn't otherwise find jobs. I could also refer to the free textbook and the discount or free meals. This is an in-kind benefit, which complements the figures that have appeared in the social benefit. One of the most important things in society is predictability. That's what career models do. First, it is a career model for teachers, then higher education workers, law enforcement and defence workers and state officials. I also believe that these few items confirm that this is a good budget for a healthy society. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-10-10	Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-10-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, In his speech he highlighted the social aspects of the 2017 budget. I think what you are saying is true, that the 2017 budget reflects the image of a healthy society, and that there are real social solutions in the 2017 budget plan, and this has come before the Parliament, whose debate will start tomorrow. I would like to approach the budget, which lies before us, from the point of view that we have actually created the possibility of what kind of financial policy, economic policy, government policy is to talk about the fact that there are real social problems, tensions and difficulties in the budget. I think we need to clarify where the country's coming from. Hungary was in financial, moral and social bankruptcy after the change of government in 2010. The government deficit has increased innumerable proportions, public debt has increased, inflation has been significant, energy prices have been skyrocketing, priceless, the problem of foreign exchange lenders has been the biggest in Europe, the economy has not increased but is dying. We had to get the country out of this, and we had to create a sound economic basis to talk about today that we can increase incomes, that we can give tax relief, that we can reduce VAT, that we can help families to give real answers to real social issues. I think the country has come a long way, and the government has come a difficult, bumpy way to get here, so that the OECD can say that Hungary is on the right path to recognise its economic achievements. It has been a difficult path for credit rating agencies to keep Hungary in a positive range, and it is expected that this year they will also be able to qualify the country. It was hard, we had to fix the economy, put it on a growth path, which was a success. Today, Hungary is at the forefront of economic growth in relation to the European Union. For next year, we are planning a 3.1 percent economic expansion, which is also considered realistic by analysts. It is very important that we keep inflation in an adequate position, as inflation is a tax on the poor. It is very important that this is low. In 2017, the government plans a 0.9 percent budget. It is very important that we can keep the budget deficit. With regard to the budget deficit, the budget is already in a zero-percent deficit, but only because of developments and investments, according to the EU methodology, the planned deficit is 2.4 per cent of GDP. The budget is prepared with a conservative approach, with careful security reserves in the budget, with a central reserve of 60 billion, the National Defence Fund and 110 billion as a reserve for extraordinary government measures. It is very important that tax revenues have been planned in a realistic way, but, at the same time, taking advantage of government measures, the additional revenues resulting from the whitening of the economy have also been included in the budget and the expected additional revenues resulting from economic growth. In agreement with Mr Fraction Manager, a realistic and eligible budget has been put before the Parliament. I wish Parliament's representatives an effective and useful debate during the budgetary debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-10-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the Fidesz Group, Member Gábor Bányai has applied for a speech before the agenda entitled 'Spring frost damage - measures and opportunities'. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-10-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On 20-21 and 25 April, the country suffered frost damage in several counties, such as Zala, Győr-Moson-Sopron, Bács-Kiskun, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Borsod-Abaúj, Zemplén, Nógrád and Somogy counties, mainly producers of grapes, fruit and vegetables across the country. By the end of last week, 3844 damage reports were received nationwide. Most of the announcements are from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg and Bács-Kiskun County. In Szabolcs 1750, in Bács-Kiskun 887 damage reports were received. This also means that at least that much, but many more Hungarian producers have suffered billions of HUF damage. In Bács-Kiskun county, the vast majority of damage reports were received for cajsi, grapes, peaches, cherries and plums. The area where it's frozen is usually 60 to 70 percent damaged. [[9.40]] For each fruit, there are hundreds of hectares of damaged areas; however, according to the information received from the producers, there is significant damage to the strawberries. 30 percent of all the vineyards in Bács-Kiskun county, about 5500 hectares of frost damage - mostly Kecel, Imrehegy, Soltvadkert, Császár filling, Hajós and Kiskőrös settlements. The damage is 80 to 100 percent in 5 percent of the area, in an area of about 1000 hectares. The damage is 50 to 70 per cent of the area, in some 2,000 hectares. And 15 percent of the area is 20-40 percent damaged by the spring frost. The most serious damage was to newly planted vineyards, where the problem is not only crop failure, but also the long-term impact of frost damage on the developmental capacity of plantations, and even the destruction of plantations, can be expected in several places. Producers who suffer frost damage - some joy in the tragedy - can receive compensation mainly in the form of compensation benefits that can be used through the agricultural compensation scheme. In the compensation fund, as we have learned, 24 billion HUF is available this year, from which we will try to meet the legitimate needs of farmers. However, only producers registered as members of the agricultural compensation scheme may be eligible for compensation, so it is important that producers affected by frost damage but not yet included in the agricultural compensation scheme, including users of areas less than 1 hectare, producers who do not require area payments, indicate their intention to join the compensation scheme on the surface of the single application open until 23 May 2016. A producer fulfilling the compensation conditions, if he has some relevant insurance for at least 50 per cent of his return value, 80 per cent of the reduction in the return value, if he does not have insurance - and these are unfortunately the majority - can receive 40 per cent as compensation. It should also be noted that the injured producer is also entitled to a reduction in the lease fee under the Compensation Act, which is also appropriate for him to enforce. In order to address adverse weather risks, such as the damage caused by spring frost damage to the counties of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Bács-Kiskun, Hajdú-Bihar, Nógrád, Pest, Somogy, Veszprém and Zala, we believe that the competent portfolio will handle the situation with due care and expertise, including thanks to the new agricultural risk management system. But - and let us not forget this - Hungarian agriculture could defend itself against some of the natural disasters. In plantations, spring frost damage can be prevented by a number of procedures up to minus 7-8 degrees of frost damage. During the vegetation period, there is also a possibility to defend locally against hails that regularly occur in the country, each on his own large-value plantation. But there would be a way to reduce the expected damage against hailfalls on a national scale. The expansion of damage control should be supported by all means, as is done in several neighbouring countries, and from 24 billion forints, if this had been the source now, it would have been possible to irrigate up to 20-40 thousand hectares of frost protection. We're asking the government for help. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-10-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State, György Czerván, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-10-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The assessment of spring frost damage at the end of April 2016 is still ongoing and the reported areas are significantly increasing daily. We have requested data from the competent organizations, such as the county government offices, the National Council of the Mountain Communities, the FruitVeB Hungarian Interprofessional Organisation for Vegetables and Fruits and the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy. According to the dates of 9 May - the latest figures - almost 5,000 spring-freezer claims were received nationwide, some 31 thousand hectares. The following counties were most affected by the almost nationwide spring frost: Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county about 13 thousand, Bács-Kiskun county nearly 6500, Pest county nearly 2500, Zala county with 1300 hectares, but the damage was significant in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Somogy and Győr-Moson-Sopron counties. There have been significant damage to the wine regions of Dunántúr, including the area of Sopron, the Balaton Uplands, the Somló and the Villany wine region, but also to the sub-region of Kunság in the Lowland region, in the area of Isaac, Soltvadkert. It should be noted here that although the area affected by the damage is expected to increase even further, some HUF 24 billion available in the compensation fund at the beginning of next year will certainly be sufficient for the highest amount of compensation under EU rules, as well as every year since the introduction of the new scheme in 2012, producers will not have to expect a reduction in the aid due to a lack of resources, contrary to the practice of the previous years. Rural farmers help farmers with the damage report, and the reported damage is continuously assessed by government offices. In principle, claims must be made within 15 days, but this can still be done by 23 May on the basis of the ongoing amendment of the agricultural portfolio. As only the members of the agri-compensation scheme are currently eligible for compensation, the most important thing in the current situation is that producers who are not yet members of the scheme should indicate their intention to join as soon as possible. Farmers may participate in agricultural compensation on a compulsory or voluntary basis. The compulsory member of the scheme shall be a producer who, on the basis of the data of the single application for the year in question, has a minimum of 10 hectares in the arable area, or at least 5 hectares in the case of arable vegetables, as long as he cultivates land of more than 1 hectare in respect of plantations, so that they do not have to register separately. Producers using less than the above area may voluntarily join the scheme. Accession may be made in their case on the single application reporting interface for the year, which shall be carried out prior to the damage notification. The single application may also include areas under 1 hectare, whether or not the producer may apply for direct aid. The area data shall be given to four decimal places, which, of course, also allows for an accurate indication of the crop area in relation to the fragments. A producer who fulfils the compensation conditions, if he has insurance covering at least 50% of his return value for an agricultural damage event, can receive 80% of the reduction in the return value, i.e. the possible maximum if he does not have insurance, half of it as a compensation allowance. It is important that agricultural insurance can still be linked. In the case of producers suffering from frost damage, the newly concluded insurance is not likely to be frost damage insurance, but, for example, ice, fire or storm insurance, for which a maximum premium of 65% of the rural development programme may also be claimed in the single application. It should be pointed out that the deadline for the submission of a tender is the last day for the submission of a single application, which will be 17 June on the basis of that amendment. I respectfully ask you to accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-10-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Member György Szilágyi of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech before the agenda:. How long will the morally failed politicians and state company leaders be protected as prime ministers? It's an address. The congressman has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-10-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Settlement: every four years, we can hear this word in every election campaign, also from the parties that come to government after the elections. For the last 26 years, this has been the campaign of the later governing parties in every election. That is what you have done, because accountability was an important issue in the 2010 campaign, they were constantly eight years old, they were constantly pointing out to the socialists, otherwise rightly so, because the socialists really had a lot of corruption and economic issues that should have been explored. And then you're on the government, and you still have the same rhetoric after you got on the government that you had before the election. Even though they were in position, there was no record of accountability, and we always believed during the elections that there would be no lower, but then there was lower, or you could say higher, because you have raised corruption to the legal level, centralised corruption, and now you are not hiding very much that you have been living with various forms of corruption in the last six years. Yesterday here in Parliament, I asked the Secretary of State a question about offshore companies, about offshore companies, about the 260 offshore companies that the Prime Minister's Office declared to offshore company and made public on its own tomorrow, and I asked if these companies were declared offshore by you and were illegal by any contract with such companies, any public procurement contract, then how could these companies still make serious billions and receive serious billions from you. [[9.50]] At that time, Minister of State, the sniffing and sparkling member of the Triumvirate in Orbán, Árpád Habony, gave the answer from the pre-written text that was, therefore, Péter Alstom and Péter Medgyessy. In fact, the case of Alstom and Péter Medgyessy is a problem, but he forgets to say that they did not start exploring this matter in Hungary; it would not be a Alstom case if the English, the British, had not begun to disturb this matter. You have forgotten only one thing, Mr Secretary: this Medgyessy Péter has not been accounted for in the last six years, there is no investigation into him in Hungary, but he has been decorated by Péter Szijjártó. They also forget to mention that, for example, János Kóka has no investigation, no accountability, but they give him diplomatic passports, and he is also constantly dating Péter Szijjártó, going around the world and doing business. They also forget to tell you that Flórian Farkas is still sitting on your benches, unable to account for 1.6 billion forints. By the way, Flórian Farkas has been entrusted with 1.6 billion that this man has been punished three times in his life, and has once been pardoned by the President of the Republic, also in connection with economic crimes, including the ORÖ. Have you accounted for this Wolf Florian? No. Instead, you want to change the law on how to get back on top of the ORO, how to put billions of people back in charge of this man. Then there's György Matolcsy's case at the MNB. György Matolcsy spends money on friends, friends, his own book, and who knows what else he spends it on. This György Matolcsy, are you trying to make him see better in any way? No, because their vice president, Lajos Kósa, is also willing to say that public money is not public money, that these things can be removed. Then there is the case of Márton Bitay, who can buy the land wherever he reaches, because he has the money to buy it - he has coffee with this man, and then for two hours he is withdrawn from the land auction that affects his rented areas. Does that have any consequences? There is no consequence, and we are constantly hearing from you - because we could list these cases endlessly - we hear from you, most of all, what is outrageous, from the Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, who protects these people, who now pardons these people as prime ministers instead of impeaching them, and we hear such things, for example, in the case of György Matolcsy, that he will do anything about it when the sky and the earth come together. There's no investigation, but there's only arrogant, pompous and laughing words in people's eyes. [[Noise.]] I think that you'll need a tear-down earth start in this country to finally get rid of the last 26 years to finally get rid of XX. Company parties. This can be done by Hungarian citizens with their votes at the latest in the 2018 elections. I trust they'll finally clean up the XX. 100th-century parties from the neighbourhood of Parliament [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and Article 21 (2) (a) The 21st century C.E. With centuries of parties, we'll re-establish the country's structure. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-10-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda and I ask my fellow Members to listen quietly to the State Secretary's reply.
u2016-05-10-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is a pity that there is not as much truth or truth in their speeches as they do with the momentum, but they are obviously trying to compensate for the lack of content by entering into rhetorical speeches. The question itself is, how long will the people who failed receive prime minister protection? Not at all. We don't know about people who would have failed and been protected by prime ministers. The Prime Minister has also repeatedly stressed that the procedures needed by the competent authorities should be initiated, and you have stated that they have been initiated. If these procedures fail to produce results, it is obvious that once again the truth content is the problem with the statements they have made. If we look at the issue of accountability in recent years, whether we are thinking about the Hunvald case, the Juhász case, the Hagyó case or even the case of Béla Kovács, then the government is doing its job, and it does try and make these people account, whether there are scandals, abuses or corruption in any party. So I strongly suggest you take a look around your house, Dávid Janiczak, at the transactions of your various mayors, the multiple payments. [[Defiance.]] At least ask them for their own moral principles, then perhaps they should not speak in such a credulous manner here in Parliament. [[Noise.]] The congressman was talking about offshore companies. Read the Fundamental Law, the relevant regulations. In Hungary, the state does not sign with companies whose ownership structure is not transparent and which we do not know who is behind them, either in public procurement or in any other form. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. András Schiffer's intervention.]] If we keep moving this line, what they're saying, the Alstom case is under investigation. The Member knows this very well, he is slipping into delays, and perhaps he was also familiar with these Medgyessy Péter cases from the speeches of my fellow members who were pro-government, because they also spoke here among the benches of Parliament, and the competent authorities are doing their part. The fact that they're showing up abroad is why I beg you, how would you feel about living in a state where Members, ex-Primes, would be constantly under investigation at an address [[Dr. András Schiffer: France!]] What kind of account movements do they have in companies without any specific data coming up? Foreignly, the company found documents that documented such abuses and allowed the Hungarian authorities to act specifically. The Member said that ex-politicians who are in business can now do business in a way that fits Hungarian economic policy. If, when you fail here, you go and start a business, and you want to be persecuted for decades, and you don't get the same opportunities as anyone else under open conditions, then I say that you don't want a democratic state, you want a dictatorship. And I'd go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and But at Jobbik, let's note that you're always on the brink of racism. [[György Szilágyi: The racism of being punished three times and prime minister...]] , and precisely the anti-Gypsyism that is constantly visible at committee meetings, here in Parliament, dictates to you the words by which you are trying to discredit your leaders, and, of course, try to take advantage of the person of the government and of the Prime Minister. If there is a procedure, these will be conducted by the authorities. If they are responsible, they will be held accountable. For example, the Member mentioned the name of one of the FM State Secretarys. Who in Hungary forbids people from meeting, which they did not even dispute? Several speeches have raised the suspicion that you have expressed. The Secretary of State, who is here in this Chamber, replied on several occasions that in 699 cases, if I remember correctly, the announcements that had been made were withdrawn. So, again, it's just that you want to create cases without concrete content, without concrete facts, and your problem is that this government has been pursuing a successful economic policy for six years, not increasing the profits of multinational companies, the President of the Central Bank has lowered inflation, does not finance foreign banks through the high central bank base rate, as well as allies with the former government economic policy, perhaps without being aware of it, as your fellow left-wing Members are currently continuing. I'm so sorry you took this road. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-10-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This concludes the speeches before the agenda. We will now continue our work with decisions. I ask my fellow Members to take their seats, to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machines, so that this will not be an obstacle in the future. [[To Zsolt Németh and Márius Révész standing between the benches:]] I will wait for my fellow Members to take their seats from the centre. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The H/10611 on the ordering of a national referendum follows. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. [[10.00]] I would remind you that, in accordance with our decision yesterday, the resolution proposal will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment H/10611/3, and its summary report H/10611/4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/10611/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes to five, with no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/1061. The text of the proposal for a decision, as amended by the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended resolution proposal by 136 votes to five, with no abstentions. Next up is T/10312 on the announcement of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10312. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 171 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. A report on the adoption of a report on the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion on the draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services is hereby drawn up. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/10291. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 139 votes in favour, 33 against and 1 abstention. The 2012 XLI on passenger transport services follows a series of steps. T/10297 on the amendment of the Act Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That is what we decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by our fellow Member Sallai R. Benedict. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 6 votes in favour, 138 against and 29 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10297. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 141 votes in favour, 26 against and 5 abstentions. It follows from the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the 2013 CCXXXVIII on the referendum procedure. T/9894. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9894/13. T/9894/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4, 5 and 6 of the LMP Group and Jobbik Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 8 and 9. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is the motion of András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 142 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 5 is also proposed by András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 115 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 6 is also the motion of András Schiffer. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 8 and includes Amendment 9. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 36 votes in favour, 115 against and 21 abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Dóra Dúró. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 116 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 9 is also proposed by Dóra Dúró. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 114 against and two abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9894/13. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 29 against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9894/17. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 115 votes in favour, 27 against and 30 abstentions. Next up is T/10311 on the amendment of certain national defence laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1031/14. T/1031/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments 2, 3 and 6 and Jobbik Group 10. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó and his fellow Members. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 10. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 119 against and 22 abstentions. [[10.10]] Amendment No 10 is proposed by Gergely Kulcsár. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 116 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 116 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 117 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not retained an amendment, we will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1031/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. The final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1031/18. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 121 votes to 30, with 22 abstentions. Following a series of amendments to Act C of 2003 on electronic communications, T/10097. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10097/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by the President of Novak. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by the President of Novak. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 21 votes in favour, 116 against and 36 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10097/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 167 votes in favour, 3 against and 4 abstentions. The final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10097/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 167 votes in favour, 1 against and 5 abstentions. The 1997 CLV on consumer protection follows. Law 1 and CCIX of 2011 on water utility services. T/10098. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/10098/8 and T/10098/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10098/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 27 against and 30 abstentions. The final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10098/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes to 27, with 30 abstentions. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste follows. T/10093. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/10093/7 and T/10093/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10093/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 52 against and 5 abstentions. The final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10093.9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 52 against and 5 abstentions. The T/9634 on the amendment of certain migration-related laws and related legislation follows a series of steps. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9634/8, and T/9634/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that amendments 2, 3 and 4 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 143 against and four abstentions. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 20 votes in favour, 149 against and four abstentions. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 116 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9634/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 120 votes to 30, with 23 abstentions. The final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9634/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes in favour, 40 against and 21 abstentions. [[10.20]] The 1995 LVII on water management follows. T/9802 amending Act T/9802 Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9802/10. and a summary report by T/9802/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9802/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 142 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 9 abstentions. The final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9802/12. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 141 votes in favour, 26 votes against and 7 abstentions. The year 1952 on the Civil Procedure III follows. Act CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. T/10308 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10308/6. T/10308/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10308/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10308/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 144 votes to 28, 28 votes against and 3 abstentions. Next up is the 2007 LXXV on the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors, audit activities and audit public oversight. T/10091 on the amendment of Act T/10091 and certain laws on financial matters Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10091/6. and a summary report by T/10091/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 was proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 was proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 29 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10091/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 29 votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10091/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 30 abstentions. Next up is T/10316 on the amendment of the laws relating to certain school cooperatives. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10316/8. and a summary report by T/10316/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Under paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 4 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 142 votes against and 3 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10316/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 31 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10316/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 29 abstentions. Next, the 2011 XCIII on the National Economic and Social Council. T/10094. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10094/7. T/10094/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10094/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 114 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 29 votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/10094.9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 38, with 23 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions on the requirements of the European Union's trade and investment agreements with third countries by Mr András Schiffer, Head of Group, H/9798. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's motion for a resolution by 170 votes to 170, with 2 votes in favour and 2 abstentions He's got it in a series of things. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of subjects by Gábor Vona and his fellow Members, in order to be able to set up committees of inquiry, the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. T/10085. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not take the bill into consideration by 57 votes in favour, 114 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi is an independent Member of the House on making the election of Members of Parliament more democratic H/9973. As a national, he was unable to participate in the proceedings of the motion for a resolution, and therefore the Act on Parliament was adopted in accordance with Article 39 (3) of the Act on Parliament. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the Parliament did not discuss the proposal. In view of this, there is no decision on the inclusion of the proposal for a decision in the subject series. [[10.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Please stay where you are. [[It's a short break. Dr. János Áder, President of the Republic, enters the decorative box.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Let's stand up and welcome our President of the Republic, according to house rules. Happy birthday, Mr. President. [[The people in this room stand up. Applause.]] Thank you very much. Have a seat. [[It's happening.]] We've reached the end of the decisions. It's 10:32. We're going according to the script. Dear Parliament, Coming up next is 21 of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Start a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Paris Agreement adopted at its Conference. Government referral T/10502. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that President János Áder wishes to speak during today's debate. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Hear, hear!]] First, I give the floor to Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame, who will speak on the platform. We'll wait for Minister to arrive on the stand. [[Dr. Miklós Seszták enters the speaker's stand.]] Thank you very much, Minister. You have the floor, please.
u2016-05-10-21	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin with a quote from one of the great Hungarian statesmen, Baron József Eötvös:. Brain was given to man not to rule over nature, but to learn to follow and obey it. The former Minister of Religion and Public Education recognized nearly two centuries ago that respect for the forces of nature could not be discussed. He knew that it was not what we expected from tomorrow that was important, but what tomorrow expected of us. It took a long process, a multitude of warning and sometimes threatening signs to make the Earth's countries realise the increasingly immediate effects of climate change and finally face the growing threat in Paris last December. The bill before you is the 21st Party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It aims at the publication of the Paris Agreement adopted at its Conference, the 2015 Climate Conference. The ratification of the agreement symbolically began on Earth Day, 22 April 2016 in New York. On behalf of Hungary - at the request of the government - the document was signed by President János Áder. The agreement can be called historic, and we have every reason to do so, because ratification was a real breakthrough. By signing the document, 175 countries agreed to fight climate change and committed themselves to decisive action. The specific commitments of the Convention send out a clear message to the world: protecting our Earth is a shared responsibility for all of us. On the first day of 2016 there were approximately 7.4 billion people on this planet, whose survival, our own survival, must be the best interests and fundamental responsibilities of each individual. But we also need to know that climate awareness and incentives will remain an empty phrase until the decision-makers themselves think of their own responsibilities and are at the forefront of action. The Paris Agreement contains the common climate targets that we can achieve to keep global warming below 2 degrees Celsius. Forecasts show that if global economic trends continue at the same pace, our Earth may be up to 4 degrees Celsius warmer by the end of the century compared to pre-industrial levels. The impact of such a change on wildlife is unpredictable, but the fact that it would bring drastic, even shocking, changes is not a question. The overlay of the ecosystem would result in an unprecedented economic crisis. We must do something, and the document before you can guarantee that. The Paris Agreement and the decisions contained in it and related thereto provide the necessary set of conditions and instruments for more effective action than ever before. Of course, further efforts are needed in the short and medium term to break down the policy to combat climate change, to give concrete hands and to carry out tasks. Many countries would not be able to do this on their own initiative, as this requires adequate staff, institutions and financial resources. This problem is overcome by the mechanism of international climate finance, which provides a basis for concrete cooperation. As early as 2009, the developed states decided to transfer 100 billion dollars a year to encourage climate protection programmes and investments in developing countries. Hungary is also actively involved in the creation of resources. At the Paris climate conference, we confirmed once again that the government provided a budget of HUF 2 billion for climate finance. [[Dr. István Józsa: Well, that's not much!]] Of this amount, we contributed HUF 1 billion to the Green Climate Fund, which manages USD 100 billion in July 2015. Under the agreement, developing countries will receive concrete financial support in this form to implement their obligations. But in addition to financial assistance, we encourage them through technology transfer and capacity building. The Agreement has been signed by the Head of 175 countries of the Parties on the first day of signature. This is a very encouraging moment, as the European Union has not remained alone with its ambitious emission reduction commitment. The participation rate and commitment that we have never seen before are the key to facing the global threat of climate change. The next meeting of the Parties will be held in December 2016 in Marrakesh, Morocco, where concrete objectives are already discussed and meaningful decisions will be taken on the implementation of the tasks. [[10.40]] The agreement also states, inter alia, that in 2018, the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change should prepare its special report on the effects of 1.5 celsius global warming. In line with this, the Parties will also assess their commitments in Paris for the first time in 2018 in terms of whether they can maintain or increase their capacity to meet long-term climate change targets. In addition to reducing emissions, adaptation to climate change will be addressed at international, national and local level. The agreement also encourages the participation of each country in international climate finance with public, corporate and civil resources. As I have already said, developing countries receive support from these sources for the implementation of their obligations. As a Member State of the European Union, Hungary has played an active and even a leading role in emission reduction efforts. Domestic emissions have declined steadily over the last 20 years. Our commitments in Kyoto have already been overachieved, since in 2014 our greenhouse gas emissions were 47,8 percent lower than the baseline emissions in 1985 and 1987. This result puts Hungary in a privileged position. If compliance does not require new, increased effort, we can focus our energy on assessing and exploiting economic opportunities. The Paris Agreement opens the way for a new economic arrangement with a shift from fossil fuel and lower emissions. Thanks to this, Hungarian companies also have new opportunities in the domestic and international markets. In the next step, Hungary will undertake the ratification of the agreement in coordination with the European Union and its Member States, taking into account the joint commitments made by the EU in the negotiation phase of the Paris Agreement. The submission of the instrument of ratification will be planned with the Union and its Member States at the same time as the Secretary-General of the United Nations this year. The international commitments of the European Union and Hungary are based on the 2030 climate and energy policy adopted on 23-24 October 2014. Under the Paris Agreement, new commitments will enter into force from 2020. The adoption of the Paris Agreement, together with the EU commitment to 2030, provides a framework for the development of domestic medium-term climate and energy policy and related legislation. This is in perfect harmony with the Hungarian government's economic policy, i.e. measures aimed at greening and competitiveness of the domestic economy, shaping innovation, R &amp; D and energy prices. The new agreement sends an appropriate message to investors and market participants with long-term, specific objectives and greater international participation than ever before. It has become clear that the countries of the world individually strive to bring their development into orbit. Private sector involvement has been significant even without public intervention. This participation is measured by the UN electronic platform set up for this purpose, where it is possible to register voluntary participation of non-state actors. In this area, too, I am proud to tell you about the significant Hungarian contribution. The system has a total of 84 Hungarian commitments until April 2016, mostly from cities and companies. In the form of cooperative initiatives and individual commitments, the largest Hungarian railway and energy companies, such as MÁV, MOL and MVM groups, and 13 Hungarian cities, including Budapest, Eger, Hatvan and Pécs, participate in cooperation. Dear Parliament, The Earth is estimated to be about 4.5 billion years old and to exist for at least 2 billion years. The stakes here are our own existence, how long we humans can humbly get together with all of our common dwellings and preserve, protect our values and beauties in order to keep us alive. This is why the publication of the Paris Agreement adopted at the 21st Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change is of paramount importance. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to discuss and support the proposed agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-10-22	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As I indicated, President János Áder indicated that he wished to speak in the debate. I would like to ask Mr János Áder, President of the Republic, to come to the Chamber and say his speech here in the pulpit. We'll wait for Mr. President to come to the pulpit. [[Dr. János Áder enters the speaker's stand.]] Thank you very much, Mr President of the Republic. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-10-23	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Today's most pressing problems cannot be solved at the level of thinking that we were standing on when we caused these problems. These are Albert Einstein's words. Dear Parliament, I asked the Government of Hungary to initiate the ratification procedure as soon as possible because I wanted Hungary to be among the first people in the European Union to believe in the Paris agreement. I applied to speak in Parliament today to ask you to be allies to the future generation, to make it clear that we have shared responsibility for their fate and our fate. Therefore, as one person, we stand for the ratification and future implementation of the Paris Convention. In my speech today, I would like to briefly address the following issues. I would like to briefly evaluate Paris and compare it with the Kyoto agreement. Then I would like to answer the question of what would happen if we went further on the path that we started after the industrial revolution. We also need to answer the question of how much time we have for action. I'd like to put some misconceptions to rest. I'd like to suggest some economic connections to your attention. I would like to inform you of some new news about Hungary, of positive developments and, finally, of what we have to do. Don't be alarmed, this outline shows that this would also fill the framework of a one and a half-hour lecture, but I am trying to take into account your tolerance and your further work, and I would therefore like to make my point in a concise, substantive manner. The evaluation of Paris. At the time when I was able to be a part of the historic moment in Paris, as Minister said, and then I was asked how I appreciated the Paris Agreement, I said that the most important thing was that there was a psychological breakthrough, especially in relation to previous years. I also said that Paris and I managed to avoid the greatest trouble, but we haven't achieved the greatest good yet. [[10.50]] And when I was able to represent Hungary at the signing ceremony in New York a few weeks ago and they asked me my opinion again, I said that we had reason to be happy, but there is no reason to celebrate. And even less to sit on our laurels. Why did I say that? Let us now compare the Paris agreement with the Kyoto agreement for a moment. In total, there are only two differences - there are several, but in total only two differences - I offer to your attention. A total of 38 countries have become parties to the Kyoto agreement. With a slight exaggeration, I can also say that the implementation of this was essentially simplified in the end for the Member States of the European Union. The United States has never ratified it, and Canada, Russia, Japan and New Zealand have resigned from the agreement and China has not been a party to the agreement. I have listed six countries that are among the ten most polluting countries. Compared to this, the Paris Agreement was adopted by 195 countries in Paris and has already been signed by 175 countries, including the United States and China as the first to believe in the adoption and implementation of the Paris Agreement. The other difference is that while the Kyoto agreement covered only 11 percent of world emissions, the Paris Agreement now covers about 95 percent of total emissions. So there's a better chance we can solve the problem. Why did I say we avoided the greatest trouble, but we didn't achieve the greatest good? Mr. Minister, in his expo, you referred to the fact that if we had gone further on the path we had taken after the industrial revolution, then there could have been even a 4 or even more negative estimates, and a 5-6 degree increase in terrestrial temperature could have occurred at the turn of the century. This would have unfathomable consequences for the living world and for us and for humans. So the biggest problem is that the Paris agreement has set itself the goal of maintaining a 2-degree terrestrial temperature increase, and even said that we should reach one-and-a-half degrees - the reality of this is quite small now, but we should be glad that we have already agreed at 2 degrees - in this sense the greatest problem has been avoided. Why haven't we achieved the greatest good? Because if we add the Paris agreements together, we put them side by side, then it turns out that if everyone does it, everyone does it, everyone keeps their own commitments, the terrestrial temperature still rises by 2.7 degrees, so it will rise by nearly 3 degrees, which has rather serious consequences and can still be. We don't have much time left to act, we have about 15-20 years to avoid the greatest trouble by implementing and even strengthening this agreement. 'Cause what if we went further along the path we had just taken in Paris, or at least we wanted to get away from it? Let me call on the study of the UN Scientific Advisory Board, the so-called IPCC. This scientific advisory board, which has 270 scientists from all over the world, outlined the possible consequences in a rather extensive study two years ago. Now I would just like to suggest a summary of this summary to your attention. So why don't we just go on the road we've been going? Firstly, the greenhouse gas concentration in the atmosphere would continue to increase. This would result in further warming of the atmosphere and the seas, which would lead to the melting of the ice sheet and rising sea water levels. More and more extreme weather conditions would characterize our Earth - an example of this in 2015 - in many places where there was no such thing before, extreme droughts, even in many places where this was not the case before, huge floods, ever more serious natural disasters, ever more serious natural disasters, ever more damaging natural disasters with increasing consequences. The acidification of the oceans, the deterioration of the conditions for food production, the spread of new pathogens and pathogens that have not been known in the area would continue, social conflicts would be intensified, and mass migration would start, say the scientists invited by the UN. Dear Parliament, There are misconceptions about climate change and dealing with the whole problem. Let me dissipate some of these misconceptions, or at least let me try. At times, it is still possible to hear the voice of climate skeptics, that there is actually no climate change here, all of which we are suffering subjects, in fact, is a natural cyclicality of earth history and human activity that has nothing to do with it. Now I can safely say that there is a 94 percent scientific consensus that everything we see, everything we call climate change, is the result of human activity. If someone is questioning this today - American Foreign Minister Kerry referred to this in the New York debate - it's like someone is questioning gravity. Another misconception is that the Paris agreement solves everything. The Paris agreement won't solve everything. In fact, the Paris agreement shows a level of political ambition, showing where we want to go in 15 years, 30 years and 85 years, and what kind of trouble we want to avoid. It will be implemented and the details will be developed for the coming months and years. The third misconception is that Paris is merely a climate protection, environmental agreement. Well, that's the worst misconception. Because if we follow the Paris agreement, there will be hard economic consequences. It is no coincidence, by the way, that earlier attempts - to refer to Copenhagen, Cancun or Durban - have all run a dead end, precisely because the parties negotiating there knew precisely that if they agreed, they would have hard economic consequences. If we implement the Paris Agreement, the Paris Agreement will result in us arriving at the threshold of a new economic era. Paris means that the development and economic development process based on fossil energy has been completed, or I can put it another way: the energy demand for further development will largely not be provided by the fossil energy industry in the near future. While decades ago the question was when our fossil reserves - coal, gas, oil - would run out, that is no longer the issue after Paris. After Paris, the question is how much fossil fuel, coal, gas and oil remains in the ground in the coming years and decades. Now, let me invite you on a trip around the Earth, and let me ask you to remember the year 2015. In 2015, there were things that had not been done before, since the industrial revolution. 2015 is the first year when more carbon-free power generation capacity has been built up in the world than fossil fuel. Last year was the first year since the industrial revolution, when renewable energy sources were spent twice as much money as traditional coal and oil-based developments. Last year, 2015, while a billion dollars a day of development in the renewable energy market, 100 billion dollars of planned development was cancelled in the fossil energy industry. The pension funds, the investment funds, started to withdraw their money from the fossil energy sector, only last year, they took out $50 billion of capital. Three of the US's five largest coal mines, coal mining companies, reported bankruptcy last year. In the stock markets, the price of coal shares is falling sharply, the price of oil and gas shares is constantly falling until renewable shares continue to rise. These are the facts of the past year. Let us then look at this from a country to a country, so let us continue the way around the world a little bit, and from the macroeconomic context let us look at how some countries are doing, what changes have been made in these countries. [[11.00]] China is right in the first place, since it is the largest issuer, the biggest polluter. In recent weeks, if you have been following the news about this, you have read the following in the international press. China has decided that in the near future 4,000 coal mines will be closed, and nearly two million workers will be sent from this industry within a relatively short period of time. At the same time, wind farms are being built in China. Wind power plants are built at nine times faster speeds than wind power in Germany. China took over the world's leading role in solar energy last year. And of course, after the need for base power plants - and I will talk about this a little later - why, because we have not solved the problem of energy storage to date, at least in an efficient, cheap and environmentally friendly way - so nuclear power is being developed in China at five times as in France, in the case of the European nuclear power in the 1980s. United States: the most polluting in the past for a long time. Although it is still in a beating place today, it is more precisely on top of the podium if you look at greenhouse gas emissions per capita. And he'll probably stay there for a long time. However, the United States has concluded three special agreements with China over the past year and a half, and these are climate agreements. After all, over the last ten years, the United States has implemented emissions reductions in excess of the European Union. Although shale oil and shale gas production has been overrun by the United States, it is good to know that there are fewer oil wells and fewer extraction platforms in the United States today than in the 40s. I could bring you Australian, British and Indian examples, I don't want to abuse your patience, but one of my favorite examples is Saudi Arabia. You all know Saudi Arabia is an oil power. Moreover, production is cheap, so it can produce oil economically for a long time, even at very low prices. Yet Saudi Arabia began to prepare for the post-oil era. Giant solar parks are being built, and the energy minister said, perhaps a few weeks ago, that Saudi Arabia was preparing to export energy, electricity and electricity to a better business than oil. Now, let's go back from the world to Hungary and see what news has come to light here in recent weeks about Hungary. Hungary's CO2 emissions reached a 50-year low in 2014. This is the British Petroleum report, the only last audit report on emissions. Hungary is one of the 21 countries in the world where GDP has increased while emissions have decreased. There are 21 such countries in the world, Hungary is one of them. In addition, a research institute in Washington examined how this process took place between 2000 and 2015 a few weeks ago. I quote their statement: during this period - between 2000 and 2015 - GDP grew by 29 percent in Hungary, while emissions and emissions decreased by 24 percent. This is good news because it clearly denies the fact that Hungary's relatively good positions are due only to the collapse of the socialist heavy industry before 90 or 90 or 90. That's not true. This research facility in Washington gives a clear rebuttal. Of course, this is when critics say it's good, good, good, but let's be more modest because, on the one hand, we import a lot of electricity and, on the other hand, we outsource part of the polluting industries, we take them to developing countries, like other EU countries. Well, this accusation is partly true, but those who would say that, who would stop at this level of analysis, I would like to point out to them the latest analysis of Carbon Brief in London, which said - by the way, considering that it is not only a territorial but also a consumption-based reduction - that, indeed, if we look at Hungary's emission reduction on a consumption-based basis, we can talk about a significant reduction in the last 10-15 years. And finally, the last one is a German NGO. For many long years, the rankings of the various countries have been published. Now, given the shortness of time, let me not say the criteria and assess the performance of each country on the basis of different criteria. It is typical of them that the first three places are never allocated, and only from the fourth place the countries are valued. But the point is that, according to this evaluation, Hungary has now been one of the first 15 countries in the world to assess emissions performance and climate performance, which is a little more comprehensive. Of course, you have every right to ask if we can sit on our laurels. And not only Hungary, but the countries of the world, since they have already agreed in Paris. I have just said to you that the greatest good has not been achieved, and that in order to keep the two-degree goal, there are still serious tasks, because even if everyone makes all the commitments, we are still much closer to three degrees than the two. So we are far from achieving the desired goal. Therefore, there is obviously more to be done. I made three suggestions in New York. One is the rapid reduction in aviation and maritime emissions, namely the launch and completion of negotiations on this. After all, air transport and shipping have been left out of the Paris Agreement. The second is that the top 10 polluting countries, the 10 largest polluting countries, which account for 60% of the Earth's emissions, should start discussing how to speed up the implementation of the Paris Agreement as soon as possible. But Hungary also has things to do. I think it is worth considering the national climate strategy for the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament. It is also worth considering our national energy strategy after Paris. It is worth giving greater support to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences for basic and applied research, and to make these research results useful for the economy as soon as possible. There are three main questions that I think a lot of people are looking for, but no one's really found them yet. In which research needs to be strengthened, research sites should be supported, further ways of reducing emissions, additional forms of energy efficiency increase, and the most important issue, at least in my opinion, is the problem of solving energy storage. As long as we have not resolved this issue, we will not be able to store excess solar energy, excess wind energy for a long time in a cheap, environmentally friendly, sustainable way, we will need basic power plants. And the example of Venezuela shows that hydroelectric power plants are not necessarily a base power plant. Look at what's happened in Venezuela over the last few months. The point is that from the industrial revolution that takes place in front of our eyes, we can also say that Hungary cannot miss out on the climate revolution that we are part of. Last year, the government expressed its intention to improve e-transport. I think that this work should be speeded up and that there should also be more progress in terms of electric public transport. But there is also work to be done in agriculture, as agriculture now accounts for 15% of greenhouse gas emissions, but soon this will be significantly higher, especially if food production is to be increased due to the increased population. [[11.10]] To give just one example, improving the use of nitrogen-based fertilisers, which, by the way, is largely responsible for greenhouse gas emissions, because we know with poor efficiency, at least today, to use or use nitrogen-based fertilisers. But we also have the same work to do with waste management, where, on the one hand, we need to reduce the amount of waste and, on the other hand, we need a change of perspective to see waste as a raw material source, as in some countries around the world today. Let me highlight the recycling of electronic waste. The only thing I would like to offer to your attention in this matter, if at all, is the question: Hungary has suffered a cyanide disaster. We know exactly what caused this. But there are still people among our neighbors who want to open gold mines. There are still people who want to get gold with this outdated technology and technology that's dangerous to the environment. Now, in addition to doing everything we can to prevent this, it is good to know that while using this outdated technology, cyanide technology, we can extract 2 grams of gold out of 1 ton of rock, causing huge environmental damage, while, say, one ton of mobile phones and electronic waste, 300 times this. Three hundred times. So why don't we go in this direction? Why don't we find a solution here? So there's work to be done, I think there's plenty to do. Dear Parliament, Hungary has good positions. Keeping up with the world is also a serious business opportunity for us. And I think we've been through a decades of debate. The issue in Hungary is no longer the issue in Hungary, and the question now is not development or climate protection in many countries of the world, but the question of development and climate protection. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, If we agree on the main objectives, if we really feel responsible for future generations, and if we clearly see that we are dealing with cross-border tasks over several parliamentary periods, then I would ask you to support the Paris agreement as one person with your vote in favour. And for today's debate and for the responsible decisions of the coming years, let me offer you the words of David Attenborough, who was just two days ago his 90th birthday, who said: "The future of life on earth depends on our ability to act. Many individuals do their best, but real success can only be achieved if there are radical changes in society, economy and politics. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for listening. Your attention has been an honor to me. [[It's a long applause.]]
u2016-05-10-24	Mr. President. Thank you for your speech. We will wait for the President to return to the box of honor, and then we will continue our work on the agenda with the speech of the lead speaker. [[Dr. János Áder takes his place in the box of honor.]] The President has arrived at the box of honor, so there is no reason for us to continue our work. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr János Bencsik. I give you the floor; the speaker's time frame is 15 minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-10-25	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Climate is a value that guarantees our conditions of existence, and we must therefore protect it. It is therefore our task to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to strengthen the capacity to adapt to changed circumstances. We are bound by foresight and responsibility, especially for the weaker and future generations. If we put a large amount of greenhouse gas into the air today, it will show its negative impact after decades. Climate change is therefore also a test of intergenerational justice. The weak and the poor are particularly plagued, so it is also a test of justice between men and nations. For Hungary, the most important task of climate change is to prevent avoidance and prepare for the inevitable by relying on common sense and healthy life instinct. This is why Hungary has been supporting and supporting the creation of a new global, legally-enhancing agreement, which will guide us for the coming decades to address the negative effects of climate change. We consider it important to agree on solidarity between developed and developing states and to bear a fair burden. On the basis of this, we can state that the Paris Agreement also takes into account Hungarian national interests, since it applies both the principles of fairness, shared but also differentiated responsibility and different abilities. Hungary must therefore play its part in the international effort based on its role in the development of the global problem and its current economic strength. Ladies and gentlemen, The document adopted in Paris states that joint action should be closely linked to sustainable development and poverty eradication. The global problem to be resolved is both environmental and social. The primary reason is that there has been an increase in the amount of material flowing through human civilization. However, the need for economic growth does not allow the necessary and sufficient renewal of environmental and social resources. The use of resources extracted from the natural environment does not reflect the spatial and temporal distribution of mankind. The stronger exploit the weaker. For this reason, the international agreement we are discussing now states that climate change strategies at national level must also be integrated into economic, social and environmental policies. It sets out as a priority the reduction of emissions, the strengthening of adaptation skills and the transfer of technology and knowledge based on innovation. It cannot be overlooked that rapid change also raises security policy issues, to which a lasting and effective response can only be provided through the development of a comprehensive framework for preparation and adaptation. We need a climate change strategy, which is a comprehensive framework for international climate policy, domestic green economy development and adaptation to change, reflecting the objectives and action directions of climate protection, both in sectoral and territorial dimensions, for policy and economic planning. As early as 2012, the Hungarian Parliament required the government to establish a national climate change strategic framework with such a view. In cooperation with the National Meteorological Service, established in 2012 within the framework of the Hungarian Geological and Geophysical Institute, the staff of the National Adaptation Centre carried out a review of the previous national climate change strategy in 2013 and prepared a new framework, which aims to further reduce the amount of harmful emissions and to create conditions for adaptation to the changes that take place. Dear House, Given the global nature of the problem, emission-oriented prevention is therefore not enough. While our country has reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent in 20 years, it has increased globally by 56 percent. [[11.20]] Meanwhile, we have lost hundreds of thousands of industrial and agricultural jobs, and we are in an unbearable energy dependency situation. As President-in-Office of the Republic indicated, Hungary has made serious sacrifices both in the period before 2000 and in the subsequent period, since it has spent a significant part of its resources on the development of the economy in the development of the green material and energy-saving economy. For the reasons set out above, the driving force behind the domestic decarbonisation roadmap integrated into the strategic framework is not only to fulfil international obligations, but also to achieve the nation-wide strategic goals of the transition to sustainability, to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, to develop materials and energy-saving technologies, and to promote the spread of renewable energy sources. The Paris Convention requires the Parties to prepare adaptation strategies at national level and to submit regularly updated adaptation communications. Sustainable management of natural resources is a priority. In preparing adaptation strategies, priority should be given to assessing the impacts of climate change and vulnerability, developing the necessary steps for vulnerable people, their communities and ecosystems. The above expectations are in line with the objectives and instruments set out in the strategic framework prepared by the National Adaptation Centre and already approved by the Hungarian Government, so that, after the adoption of the law we are discussing, it can be submitted to Parliament for ratification. Ladies and gentlemen, We must have no other objective than to create conditions for adaptation at sectoral and territorial level based on climate vulnerability testing. A national adaptation strategy is therefore needed to respond flexibly to climate change and to prevent risks and minimise damage. In the last days of 2012, this House decided that the National Adaptation System, NATéR, should be established to assess the expected impacts of climate change in Hungary, its natural and socio-economic consequences and the climatic vulnerability of ecosystems and sectors. The aim of the vulnerability assessment is to identify the extent to which regions and sectors are at risk from the effects of climate change. The NATéR should be part of a natural resource register, which is responsible for assessing the quantitative and qualitative characteristics of domestic natural resources and their changes at territorial level. I also wanted to emphasise this because the Paris Convention before us prioritises the importance of public access to information, as well as the participation of all levels of government, including local government. From the first day of May, the National Adaptation Space Information System, which is available to all registered users, will provide objective information for the preparation of flexible municipal and sectoral decision-making, decision-making and planning adapted to changing circumstances. The NATéR directly supports the implementation, review, evaluation of the Second National Climate Change Strategy and the implementation and monitoring of the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency. The system supported by the EEA and the Norwegian Fund can also help the government to combine the scarce resources available with the greatest benefits in society. We must set as a primary objective that, in the interests of the common good, development should increase municipal and regional autonomy, contain domestic added value, build on domestic labour and suppliers, facilitate access to international markets, prove to be commercially sustainable, and be linked to catching up in the countryside. The latter should be borne in mind only because, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention adopted in Paris, the Parties establish a financial fund to facilitate emission reduction and adaptation. The financial funds should also help to transfer technologies developed in the context of climate protection and knowledge acquired. Hungary should not be ashamed in this respect, as we have a number of innovations that we can share with developing countries. According to Hungary, funding is important, but it cannot be the goal in itself, but it is only one of the means of achieving the goals. We recognise the outstanding role of the Green Climate Fund, but it is also important to involve not only public but private funding. Our commitment to this is shown by the fact that a year ago, according to the decision of the Hungarian Government, Hungary offered a billion HUF to the Green Climate Fund. We are also negotiating with the Global Green Growth Institute, which provides support for developing states, in order to join the Institute. Dear Parliament, Climate change is not a new phenomenon, but as we distanced ourselves from our natural foundations, we have lost our adaptability to rapid changes almost entirely. The civilizational achievements of modern societies have become extremely vulnerable to changes in the external environment. The convention adopted in Paris is an encouraging attempt for the nations of the world to make a joint effort to survive our civilization and to give the generations to come and live. The framework agreement does not conflict with the Hungarian national interests, it harmonises with the climate change strategic framework already approved by the government, so its signature is supported by the Fidesz Group. However, in order to achieve the objectives outlined, value-change is needed. Without value-change, no technical solution or political negotiation for sustainability or international agreement can lead to a goal. And the essence of the new value is that all people are considered to be of equal dignity, regardless of their abilities, and require humane conditions for all. Thank you for your trust. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-10-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-10-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President of the Republic. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Rarely, but there are special days for Parliament here. There are times when we are discussing a proposal which, in its content and its objectives, does not involve debate between parliamentary parties. This is the way it is now, the bill for the publication of the Paris Agreement. This was also the case when the national framework strategy for sustainable development was adopted. On such days, we send an important message. That we feel responsible for future generations. The Paris Agreement also sets goals that are in the interest of all of us, so that we can send a message to the future generation and to the present. The fact that politics is not equal to the day-to-day debates of the parties is much more than a serious message. More, as it is about society's current and future daily life, so it is also about the sustainable development and the safe future of Hungary. Therefore, these principles must be represented not only on paper but also in action. Inspire, help. And then let's look at a few facts, data, and a number or two, in which we really should do not only in paper, but also in action here in Hungary. [[11.30]] The Orbán government wants to achieve a 14.65 percent share of renewable energy in the total Hungarian energy consumption, instead of 13 percent expected by the European Union by 2020. Implementation is, in principle, possible and should not start from zero, since the renewable ratio in total energy consumption was 9.8 per cent already in 2013. In particular, the share of renewable electricity in domestic electricity consumption increased from 0.8 in 2003 to 7.3 in 2010, but the share of renewable electricity decreased to 6.3 and 6.7 in 2012 and 2013. This would require significant government incentives to meet both the mandatory and the voluntary target. The bill, which we discussed last week, is actually not to encourage the role of renewable energy sources in electricity production, but to check the fulfilment of an EU obligation. This is demonstrated by the fact that the government has been promising the introduction of a new regulation for the predecessor of METAR, i.e. attractive and investment incentives for investors since 2010, but so far, this has not happened. At the same time, the government's measures taken in the meantime have led to obstacles and disprovement of developments in the renewable energy sector. Ladies and gentlemen, Not only on paper, not only in words, but also in Hungary, we must prove the words in which we can agree, because in the principles, as I said, our party agrees. Dear House, We know the numbers. We know that the number of Earth's inhabitants has increased more than three times since 1900, and the growth of the global economy has been twentyfold. The consumption of mineral energy sources increased by 30 times and industrial production increased by 50 times. Four fifths of this growth has been happening since 1950, and this great development has brought new problems to the world - including us. At the same time, we know Pan Gimun's words: there is no Plan B, and there is no Plan B. Although the extraordinary development of recent decades has made it possible to increase human well-being infinitely, we know that some of the developmental processes damage the natural environment of our planet to an alarming extent and reduce its ecological capital, which, as a result of its economic repercussions, is becoming increasingly poor and vulnerable. Social progress is therefore not equal to economic growth. Given the state of the environment and society today, it is becoming increasingly clear: progress can no longer be interpreted in a traditional way, progress can no longer mean material progress. Only progress towards a sustainable future can make full sense of the term. That's what we need to have in common over the next decades. Dear House, Sustainable development is not the final destination, but a direction, a path in which there is no simple solution. Today, in the sense of sustainable or harmonious development, we mean a form of development that, while meeting the needs of the present, does not deprive the future generation of the opportunities to meet its own needs. Two fundamental aspects are the preservation of environmental values and the principle of responsibility for the future generation. The environmental dimension of the sustainable development of society is the sustainable use of the environment, i.e. the use of human quality of life that can remain within the limits of the burden-bearing and renewable capacity of natural resources and life-sustaining ecosystems. Sustainable development therefore comes from the assumption that a balance can be established between meeting needs and preserving environmental values. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in this Chamber, we all agree that sustainability aspects in ecology, social measures and the economy are dampening the differences. We need this extremely, because we see it every day: in the environment, in the social sphere and in the economy, we seem to have reached our borders. Since these three areas are not independent but closely interlinked, we need to transform our current system in the spirit of sustainability in such a way that we must solve four fundamental issues as soon as possible: poverty eradication, development that benefits all, climate protection, growth that is always adapted to ecological space and barriers. In conclusion, this should be the opportunity for us to create a better, more livable world. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the Paris agreement as mentioned above, then we can say that a historic agreement has been reached. Of course, I also understand those who think that a stronger agreement could have been reached, and I fully accept the opinion of those who believe that this agreement will only be worth anything if the large issuers sign it and then publish the agreement. However, what I am saying is that it is a success that 195 countries have joined together to combat climate change, and Hungary is the first to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of success, let us not forget the most important thing: that change must be made on our own. We've got work to do, we've got work to do. After the agreement is published, we need to rethink our climate strategy and review government policy; not only in words but also in actions. In Hungary, the share of renewable energy sources in the total energy mix is only 9.8 percent and no new wind power plant has been built since 2011. There's still room for improvement for the country and the government, because there really is no Plan B, there really is no Plan B. Thank you very much for listening to me, and I really encourage you: not only in words, but not only abroad, but also in order to achieve this agreement. Thank you.
u2016-05-10-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr András Aradski. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-10-29	Mr President, Dear House, The President of the Republic said that 2015 It will be a very important year in the history of mankind, we hope it will be a turning point, but it is certain that the beginning of a very important process is the starting point for achieving precisely defined goals. I agree with this because of two reasons: one is the Paris agreement itself, and we are discussing this at our meeting today, and the bill on this issue, and the other is an earlier date: on June 18, 2015, Pope Francis' Encyclical Laudato si., which is about how mankind can contribute to climate protection, how he can fulfill his command about the created world to the Lord. An important historic moment when the spiritual sphere and the Profan think at the same time is trying to think at the same time about how humanity can protect its living conditions, how it can preserve the values of the created world. The encyclical borrows its title from the prayer of St. Francis, in the song of creatures St. Francis says: The Earth is our home together, and also our sister, with whom we share the existence, is like a beautiful mother who holds us in her arms. We're from the ground ourselves. Our bodies are made up of the elements of the planet itself, the air that breathes. I think that the shared direction, the collusion of the spiritual and material worlds, gives us good hope to meet the challenge. Climate protection and the fight against climate change itself did not start today, it did not start in 2015 but much earlier, and it was visible that the countries of the world were not united from the outset in terms of the means and ways to prevent climate change to the extent that it did not upset the biological living conditions of the Earth. [[11.40]] Today, thanks to Paris, these conditions, these thoughts and these intentions coincide. It was a very important methodological prerequisite for this, apart from the political preconditions, that the conference did not want to define commitments from above, but that it brought on a system of individual commitments from the bottom-up countries. As a result, we may be able to achieve a goal by fulfilling the commitments that climate change will be kept under control, there will be no greater temperature increase than before industrial change, industrial revolution, 2 degrees Celsius higher than at that time. I believe that these voluntary commitments and the subsequent systems foreseen in the agreement itself, which will develop traceability and accountability, can ensure that the objective is met. The key issue in the fight against climate change is how fossil fuels are released from the system. We have many tools for this, most important is energy saving, increasing energy efficiency. Another technical tool is to put renewable and low-carbon sources of energy into the system. In this respect, the world's thinking planes and investment directions show a significant and positive shift. Today, it is not very possible to obtain money from investment banks and funds for the purpose of setting up a fossil-based, mainly carbon-based power plant. But it is important that we also take care of things that increase emissions during everyday life. I am also thinking about transport, reducing fossil gas emissions from households. Hungary is in a very good position to look at the results in this regard, but we cannot be satisfied with it. The energy strategy adopted in 2011 also points towards energy efficiency, reducing energy use and promoting low carbon energy sources, including the use of renewable energy sources. I think that Hungary is very close to the modern world trend that shows that economic growth can now be achieved by not increasing greenhouse gas emissions or even increasing energy consumption itself. In this respect, the Hungarian industry and the Hungarian economy have performed well over the last seven years. They also served directly the fight against climate change, driven by rational economic interests, making very significant investments in energy efficiency. But we cannot be satisfied, we must also think in the long term, so that we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions that cause climate change as effectively as possible. Therefore, it is inevitable that, in addition to putting renewable energy into the system, we should set ourselves research and innovation tasks and targets that increase energy efficiency, increase the intensity of productive capacity and reduce emission opportunities. From this point of view, it is essential to mention the role of the European Union and its role in Hungary with a positive edge, because we are part of the European Union. The European Union has been a champion throughout this process, which has led to Paris. He was also a fighter in the sense that he appeared as an independent entity in the system, not by the Member States expressing their messages, ideas and intentions during the debate, but by conveying the common positions of the European Union to the other parties during the debate. This meant unity, strength, determination and commitment for the rest of the world. In this respect, it was a joy compared to today's situation that the EU Member States are able to think together to achieve a common goal, which is very important for mankind, and they are able to act together, even if there are differences in how they will achieve greenhouse gas reductions, how they can meet the targets set by the European Union. There are differences in this, without doubt, differing, for example, from Poles, where coal mining and coal mining-based energy production have a very long tradition, different Germany, and the other extreme, which aims to achieve the radical and high-quality use of renewables in energy production. And they differ from other countries, which use other means to serve low-carbon energy production. I think that Hungary is on the right track, but this is all too little if the world misses the step. I must say this and underline that there is a need - and a very good sign of the Paris agreement - for a kind of social solidarity in the world, because, as Pope Francis said, there are never two independent, an environmental and social crisis, but these crises are very complex, both social and environmental. So what I'm trying to say is that despite protecting the planet from climate change, we are doing everything we can to reduce fossil fuels, even though we are achieving a maximum of 2 degrees Celsius if we do not complete social justice, equity, patience and love between the countries involved and the members of humanity on this planet. I think that this Paris agreement goes beyond climate change, a common solidarity, ideas based on joint cooperation, which is a major challenge for the future, and that is why it is worth considering the problem ahead of us, and that is why it is worth contributing to the solution of global problems by adopting the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-10-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli, who is speaking here on the stand. We'll wait for Congressman to arrive on the stand. Yes, thank you very much, Congressman. You have the floor, please.
u2016-05-10-31	Mr President, Mr President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, On my part, the use of the speaker's pulpit is about the importance of the subject, the weight of the subject, as some of the speakers before me have done. It is customary to start a speech as a keynote speaker with quotes. I will do the same, but I would like to quote not from a foreign greatness, but from a Hungarian greatness still living today, whom we can be proud of, whom we can rightly regard as our role model. And this is Lajos Kassai, the world-famous cavalryman, whose ars poetic or motto is that we should not follow our ancestors, but what our ancestors followed. Of course, this is true of environmental protection, and this is also true of the idea of sustainability. For the environment seems to many as if it were some kind of past, some kind of backward progress in development is a condition for protecting our environment. But, of course, that is not true; it is only a condition of harmonious cohabitation with the created world. [[11.50]] So at this solemn moment, which is always around the House when it comes to the adoption of an international agreement, allow me to be a little more practical and to speak of more practical things. Looking around the world, we see that we do not necessarily have reason to be content. Despite the fact that, for the first time, nearly 200 countries have agreed that climate protection is an important thing, and we need to act, we must do something if we are to stop these disastrous processes, but at the moment there is absolutely no reason to be satisfied, of course we cannot sit back, no matter how much this agreement has been concluded, and no matter how much we support it in ratifying it at home. Even if everyone adheres to this agreement, the global average temperature will rise by nearly three degrees, said the President of the Republic. This also supports the fact that the end of our actions is far from yet, and even more radical actions would be needed to achieve real results, since such an agreement would be in vain if it did not result in an improvement in the situation. So, Paris, you might think it's enough to pat a smug shoulder, but for real results, to stop the global warming of the Earth, it doesn't seem to be. And that is also the great danger, because you can make us believe that we have done what the country required, that we have done what the Earth required, and now we have nothing else to do, and we can sit back. Sustainability is not only an environmental but also a social issue, and we may have even less reason to be satisfied around the world if we look at the social side of sustainability. Hunger is enormous worldwide, there is no adequate amount of healthy drinking water, and there is a huge loss of soil. The extent of the population growth of the Earth does not give rise to satisfaction either, as the conditions for the production of safe and healthy food are not met, the land is dying to a huge extent worldwide, the vision of the future is not optimistic at all, and this GDP-based world, this view based on economic development, social image does not guarantee us survival at all. As long as this money-centred view, the approach based on material accumulation does not change, and we do not return to what our ancestors have followed, so we will not be able to achieve real and realistic results from the aggressive example of accumulation of life in harmony with the created world and those living in harmony with the created world. But I'm not talking about going back to the past, I'm talking about changing perspectives. This is necessary globally. If we change our approach in Hungary, of course, it is not enough for anything, but everything starts in place. One of the main slogans of environmental protection is: "Think globally, act locally" - this can also be applied very well in this case. What about our country? Zoltán Illés, the State Secretary of the previous term, said this from the Prime Minister's mouth in an interview that, according to Viktor Orbán, environmental protection is a left-wing issue, and he refuses to sacrifice for this kind of thing. I do not know if this sentence has actually been said from the Prime Minister's mouth, but the facts and actions unfortunately show that it is, because since 2010, the second Orbán government has been in Hungary since the beginning of its regency. First, the independent ministry ceased to exist, then the institution of the independent greenombudsman, later the environmental authority, was integrated into the government offices and, in the meantime, fewer and fewer budgetary resources were associated with the green affairs. Whether it is environmental remediation, support for renewable energy, energy efficiency programmes, resources are constantly running out, and EU funds are not spent and are not grouped where they benefit most from it, whether from an environmental point of view or from the public's point of view. We believe that environmental protection is not left-wing and that environmental protection is not left-wing, and that the person who loves his country is obviously only environmentally friendly. I think it is quite clear and logical that environmental protection is linked to national sentiment, to the national side as an idea, and that is why the situation, the state of the environment where it is now, is still in place, because it has been treated as a kind of left-wing liberal value until now or recently. With regard to concrete examples, we see what is happening in Hungary: the proliferation of renewable energies could help to curb, limit or reduce CO2 emissions, compared to this, the impact of solar panels on the product price does not exactly suggest a process in this direction. We are trying to curb climate change, while hindering the spread of renewable energies. But the same is true of wind farms. One example of this was the increase in wind power plants in China, say. Compared to this, no tender has been issued at home since 2010 for the creation of wind farms, i.e. since the second Orbán government came to power. Besides, more than 90 percent of renewable energy worldwide comes from hydropower, and although our country's geographical environment is not necessarily suitable for the creation of large-scale hydroelectric power plants, water management is still a poor and disadvantaged sector in Hungary, which is not only bad for energy production, but also for preparing for the effects of climate change, because we are not prepared for storing water, withholding water and irrigation at all. This would be a huge task for the governments at hand. At the moment, we do not see any evidence that we are doing what is necessary to prepare for the effects of climate change in water management. We have institutions, such as the Environmental Sustainability Directorate within the Presidency of the Republic, and without any disrespect, allow me, Mr President of the Republic, to say one or two critical words about a practical example that is very related to sustainability. Recently, Csepel citizens turned to local Jobbik's leaders, saying that an investment is being made in Csepel, a container terminal, which will take place in the protection area of the hydrogeological water base in Budapest, is concerned about this, and that there are residential buildings in the environment, and that the company said that any dangerous material could occur in their activities. We thought it best to turn to the President of the Republic, who is a great advocate for environmental issues around the world, in case we can hope for some kind of help or support. We sent this letter to the President of the Republic, and within a few weeks the reply was received, not from the President of the Republic, but from Csaba Kőrösi, director of the Directorate for Environmental Sustainability, in which he thanked us for our information on the waste water treatment in Csepel, where the interesting and outrageous fact that the waste water treatment in Csepel was not mentioned in the letter was not mentioned. So the letter was probably not even read, which is of great concern to such a public institution. I know, of course, that these problems may seem small compared to the problems of global climate change, but once again, thinking globally, acting locally, Mr President, you seem to be missing the part of the action at hand, because it is highly commendable to think globally and to say nice words at international conferences and conventions on the occasion of their signing, and we also appreciate it, but indeed, at home, the conditions at home show that it would be necessary for the President of the Republic to take a stronger stand and take action in environmental matters in the home arena, too, because unfortunately the situation does not show what we can hear from Hungarian government representatives in various speeches on the international stage and at international conferences. Yes, greenhouse gas emissions have decreased, but we continue to maintain that some of this has indeed been caused by the deterioration of the heavy industry after the change of regime, and indeed there are measures that have contributed to this, but here the evacuation of part of the production sector, the polluting industries, is also involved, and this is only the export of pollution, not the real reduction or elimination of pollution. Air transport and maritime shipping have been mentioned by the President of the Republic, in which he intends to act on an international stage. These are really very important things. Unfortunately, Hungary has little impact on these areas, since we are unfortunately no longer interested in any of them, since we do not have our own national airlines and we do not have a maritime reservation. Nevertheless, they are indeed very polluting, both aviation and maritime shipping, and the problem needs to be taken into account. However, I would like to ask the President of the Republic on this solemn occasion to support the protection of our environment at home, the preservation of the natural values of the Carpathian Basin for future generations of Hungarians. [[12.00]] In this case, too, in the adoption of this bill, and in any bill that will help even a jottan to bring us closer to the goals, to improving the environmental status, to saving our Earth for future generations, we are always partners. We never oppose, we don't refer to any climate skeptics. This has also been mentioned by the President of the Republic that there is already 94 percent agreement that human activity is causing climate change. I don't know where you got that number, President of the Republic, but it's not really relevant. Indeed, the extent to which human activity contributes is irrelevant. We have a responsibility to minimise CO2 emissions and greenhouse gas emissions from our activities. Whether this is the primary cause of climate change or not, this does not make any difference in what we need to do. We must do what we can, to the maximum. Then we will have a clear conscience, and then we can say that the processes that will take place in the coming decades are not escalating because of our activities to the extent that they are expected to escalate. In addition to prevention, preparing for impacts is equally important, and we need to invest the same energy in the coming years. That is why I also mentioned the example of water management, and I could therefore mention many other examples. Because we have to be prepared, we can't bury our heads in the sand. We know that, among other things, global climate change will launch huge migration in the coming decades. The migratory pressure we are facing now is nothing compared to what will be waiting for us when, due to hunger, lack of drinking water, lack of food, crowds from both inside Africa and the Middle East or other areas start moving towards Europe, where the conditions for agricultural production are still set. We have a healthy farmland, we have a large supply of drinking water, and obviously this will be attractive to the population groups, the people who do not have it in their country, and where there is poverty, where there is hunger, and diseases decimate the population. We must prepare for this because our country has healthy soil and drinking water. Our country's living conditions are suitable for the Hungarians of future generations to live their lives here and live a good life, but we must be able to protect our country. That's what the press is saying today, isn't it? We are full of the problems caused by migration issues and of how to defend ourselves against it, but this is only the beginning of what will come in the coming decades. Jobbik supports all of this, including the adoption of this bill. In addition to saying our criticisms, of course, whether it is migration or sustainability and preventing the effects of climate change, the government always finds a partner in us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-10-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. We'll wait for him because he's speaking from here, from the platform. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the House that I am giving the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. I wish you good work. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-05-10-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President of the Republic. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, it is not the first time, and I am afraid that, when an international environmental agreement is reached, the LMP, as a Green Party, does not exult and wonder if it will vote. Such an international agreement is also the Paris Climate Agreement, which we consider very little to bring about substantial changes in the world in order to prevent global warming. Each country should undertake much more separately, but also together. I'm more disoriented than the President of the Republic. Reading the foreword of the Paris agreement, one has a feeling that, like the 24 years since the birth of the Framework Convention on Climate Change, no significant progress can be made in tackling climate change after Paris. The introductory section shows that the international community has not changed the approach that has led to the problem. The President of the Republic also spoke in his speech about the fact that in the same approach as the problems arose, they cannot be resolved. In support of my opinion, the paragraph reads:, and recognising that sustainable lifestyles and sustainable consumption and production patterns in which developed countries are at the forefront play an important role in tackling climate change. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This recognition is shocking and deceitful. First of all, it is clear to everyone that the climate problem, similar to any other environmental problem, can be linked to rich countries called here, which have a supposedly sustainable lifestyle and are called sustainable consumption and production patterns, because of their economic development. However, economic development is not the same as real development, and let's face it, it's quite counterproductive to call a culture that destroys its environment and revives its future, not only its own, but also its entire international community. Secondly, it is appropriate to clarify that a sustainable production and consumption pattern and a sustainable lifestyle mean that a given nation manages its own environment in such a way that its ability to recreate the current consumption of natural resources is maintained. However, if a country uses multiples of its ecological capacities, it certainly does not have sustainable lifestyles, production and consumption. In the American way of life, the inhabitants of Earth would need almost five planets to cover the resource needs of their lifestyle, but it would also take almost three planets for European living standards, and almost two even for Hungarians. Well, the rich and poor of mankind currently using 1.6 planets are burdening our environment in different ways, and the ecological debt of the wealthy called advanced is reduced by the more modest consumption of the poor, but, as we can see, it is too much. Thirdly, recognition is false, for the wealth of the developed world feeds on the world as a whole, its resources and its ecological capacities. Any economic result or social well-being, but even the resources spent on environmental protection, are created through the burden of other societies and the natural environment of the world. To sum up, therefore, exporting the lifestyle, production and consumption cultures of developed countries to the world, as this has been the cause of the problem, cannot help to curb climate change. Of course, contradictions can be found not only in the preamble, but also in certain articles of the agreement. Article 2 (b) seeks to improve the ability to adapt to the adverse effects of climate change and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions without endangering food production. We environmentalists are familiar with similar wordings. More specifically, the fact is that the world's agricultural economy directly and indirectly contributes even more significantly to climate change's negative trends. More than 1 billion tonnes of coal is released from the soil of 1.6 billion hectares per year, not to mention that this vast area does not provide any support or regulatory ecosystem services, that is, it does not help but harm adaptation to climate change. However, since a growing population with growing needs should be fed more food by the middle of the century, around 800 million hectares of arable land should be included in agricultural production. Well, the inclusion of so many fertile areas is possible only through the destruction of habitats providing high ecosystem services, which, as appropriate, further increases CO2 emissions, reduces adaptability and impairs the planet's ability to self-regulate. [[12.10]] It is also true that the solutions that have been done so far - and here it is understood as a strong quotation mark - have only made things worse instead of improving the situation. For example, the Union has set itself the objective of mixing 5,75% by volume of agrofuel for petrol and diesel fuels for the years 2010-2012, and has modified this proposal so that by 2020 10 percent of propellants should come from renewable sources. The result of the target did not have to wait long: large companies in Southeast Asia, South America and Africa, with business opportunities in supplying the European agrofuel market, started to acquire land in order to create oil palms, jatrophy and other crops containing oil and sugar. As a result of the measure, natural ecosystems, jungles and bog forests were victims, mostly burned down, leading to a reduction in biodiversity and the release of carbon stored in the soils of forests. Indonesia - after China and America - became the third largest carbon emitter on Earth. In addition to the serious ecological consequences, the traditional farming culture of farmers has been eradicated, the replacement of self-sufficient peasant farms for plantations, and the violent acquisition of land, the robbery of land, in which traditional cultures disappear, and millions of people become land runners. However, emissions trading or the transfer of clean technologies have not led to the expected results either. In an international community where the rules don't apply to everyone, the system finds its way out despite the best of intentions and finds the best interests of the few who can make a good deal out of trouble. The increasing expectations of agrofuels, as well as the growing demand for food, cast doubt on the objectives of Article 5 that Parties should act to protect sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases, including forests. The anomalies so far will only be strengthened by the fact that, on the basis of a shared but differentiated responsibility, developing countries will, in fact, only be granted a delay in the implementation of the reduction tasks for their economic growth and will increase their emissions further. However, economic growth is accompanied, where necessary, by further consumption of resources and further pressure on the environment, so it is precisely those countries that still have ecological reserves, including carbon-absorption capacities, that are being considered loosely. No one should have any illusions, just as they have never done before, and as the countries that call themselves today are slowly eliminating their swallows, for why should they not if others have done so? All this, of course, seems to be a trifle in addition to the mistaken approach that comes from the fact that, like the predecessors of the Paris Agreement, it does not want to deal with the cause of emissions, but rather with the phenomenon itself. Emissions of greenhouse gases and all other environmental pressures can be linked to the total use of materials used by mankind. As long as total material consumption increases, environmental problems will also get worse, regardless of the extent to which efficiency increases. Unfortunately, the Paris agreement has not changed the fact that greenhouse gas emissions are linked to inputs, i.e. total primary material consumption. There is not even a theoretical scenario today as to how to reduce the primary use of resources in the world as a whole, or how to stop or even reverse the loss of natural ecosystems where necessary, even though the primary use of 10.6 tonnes per capita today should be reduced to at least 4 tonnes per person. Dear Parliament, We know that the common root of our problems is to increase material prosperity at all costs, which goes hand in hand with the need to constantly expand consumption. However, as economic growth and environmental burdens are associated, there is no absolute division, and there is no chance of achieving our environmental objectives, including climate protection, in addition to the current macroeconomic model. Eventually, you have to deal with false illusions. Together with humanity, societies and people must recognize the right measure individually, that it is not possible to achieve the right measure without the sacrifice of those who have so far made an inordinate contribution to the foaming of prosperity. Since it is not possible to increase the production of goods without further damaging the environment, the remainder can only be shared fairly, but this requires a radical change in our approach. If we don't do it on our own, the problem will force - but let's not wait. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-10-34	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The motion is adjourned and will continue to take place on this day, in accordance with the agreed agenda. I would like to thank the President of the Republic for his participation and speech in honouring our meeting. Dear Parliament, The sixth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law and the joint general debate on the draft law tabled by Members Lajos Kósa, Gergely Gulyás, Fidesz and Péter Harrach, István Simicskó, Imre Vejkey and György Rubovszky, KDNP on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the terrorist threat. The submissions were made in T/10416 and in T/10417. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that during the start of the debate, the opening speech by the author, the speeches by the lead speaker and the speech by the first independent Member will take place. Further speeches by Members will be possible in the course of the debate. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Gulyás, vice-president of the Parliament, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Mr. Vice President.
u2016-05-10-35	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We have before us the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Unlike the previous amendments, no one can argue that the text we are now being tabled is intended to respond to a new situation which was an unknown threat when the Fundamental Law was adopted. The migration crisis of the last year has dramatically increased the threat of terrorism in Europe. What we see is that the security risk that Europe as a whole is facing is a threat to all of us, and none of the Member States in the European Union will be left out of this. We have drawn attention in time to the dangers that an unregulated, uncontrolled and illegal wave of migration can lead to, and we have drawn attention in time to the fact that we are importing terrorism in this case and that Europe's security has never been exposed to the same extent as that which is now being produced by the migration wave. The events that have taken place since then, Paris and Brussels, the brutal and reprehensible acts of terrorism there, have proved this to be a very good one. Therefore, as the whole of Europe is seeking answers and seeking legal solutions to the situation, so must the Hungarian Parliament. Since the amendments to the rules relating to the extraordinary legal order require a two-thirds majority - this is true both for the amendment of the basic law and for the amendment of the related national defence law, and also for the terror package which has already been discussed and is now before the committees, presented by the Ministry of the Interior - we can say that in these cases the Parliament must reach a compromise in order to guarantee the safety of Hungary's citizens. [[12.20]] Here, in the case of the amendment of the basic law, we would like to adopt and introduce a new reality, and after the presentation was preceded by five-party negotiations, I therefore believe that the Hungarian policy, with the coordination of the Ministry of Defence, with the participation of all factions, has proved it to the fullest extent, and, in particular, the governing parties have in this case proved to the maximum that they want to seek and find a compromise. There was no issue in the negotiations that we could not discuss, there were opposition proposals that we accepted, and we can even say that the concept itself was raised by the opposition, the concept of regulation. We must agree with the aim of the regulation, because the aim of the regulation is to ensure the safety of Hungary in a changed security environment, in the face of serious threats. In many respects, the terrorist threat also shows the need for greater confidence in the state, as it is true that, while in a state of emergency or in other exceptional legal systems, including the state of emergency, it is necessary to respond to the exceptional situation that has already occurred, it is not possible to argue or to argue that there is no reason to impose an exceptional legal order, because if a person has already committed a terrorist act, if the elemental disaster has already occurred, then it is very simple to agree that the introduction of an exceptional legal order is justified. In the event of a terrorist threat, however, this is not the case; in the event of a terrorist threat, we are in a position to face the immediate threat of an acute, imminent, terrorist attack or terrorist threat, when there has not yet been an attack, and in this case, we would also like to give the current executive the opportunity to limit its fundamental rights in order to guarantee the security of citizens in such a situation. If we look back on the last few months, we can say that in Hanover, a football match on which the entire German government arrived as a guest had to be called off an hour and a half before the match began. A curfew was imposed in Brussels in three districts long before the terrorist attacks in Brussels and before anything happened. Obviously, this was a serious limitation of fundamental rights, but no one can dispute it, especially in the light of what has happened since then that is justified. So first of all, I would like to ask my fellow Members not to argue, in the spirit of rational dialogue, that these are indeed serious fundamental rights restrictions, but that is the essence of the extraordinary legal order, which gives the State the opportunity to do so. Another very important aspect: let us not argue that, in the current situation, the State should have a more serious say in the means necessary to guarantee security, because otherwise, in such a situation, the necessary information may not be available, despite the fact that, thanks to the bill submitted by the Ministry of Interior, we can properly classify and manage this information, if there is a direct threat, it is not possible to impose an exceptional legal order at the moment, only when this has already happened. The third is that it cannot be disputed that in such a case the possibility of intervention must be given directly to the government. It is also clear that, in the end, the Parliament will now impose the terrorist threat under the regulations put forward, but the possibility for the government to ensure that when the threat occurs, when the specific information on the direct terrorist threat exists, the government will have to act immediately, so in such a case the National Assembly will be called only ex post, so in a sense there will be an ex post approval here. But regardless of the long history of Hungary's democracy that we hope will be in government, we believe that the mandate that Parliament would give to the government by introducing a terrorist threat is in no way excessive and does not give rise to any meaningful abuse. According to the proposed legislation, therefore, in the event of a major and direct terrorist threat or terrorist attack, the Government's initiative will be to declare the terrorist threat by the Parliament. However, from the moment of the Government's initiative, it already has important, truly extraordinary legal order, or instruments forming an extraordinary legal order, and this power will be complete if the Parliament orders the terrorist threat within 15 days. If we look at the current legislation, we can say that the five special legal situations are supplemented by a sixth. During the period of the five-party debate, it was the Group of the May Other Politics, which was the most provocative of us not to try to include the terrorist threat in existing facts, but to try to find a regulation that is acceptable to everyone in the context of a separate sixth extraordinary legal order. The new case category is practically the internal security equivalent of the preventive defence situation, but it opens up narrower powers at the level of the defence law, and it provides an opportunity to use the Hungarian Defence Service if the forces of the police and national security services are not sufficient. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in this case the Hungarian Defence Forces can play an additional, auxiliary role, so if and if the forces of the police are sufficient to counter the threat, to guarantee security, then the Hungarian Defence Forces cannot be used. However, if this is not enough, then there is a possibility - we also see European examples, so the proposal fits into the European legal order and the practice of the current amendments - that the use of the Hungarian Defence Forces can also help the police work. It is also worth making clear that in words all parties agreed with the possibility of using the defence, even the Hungarian Socialist Party not present in the debate said that this was justified, and the other two opposition groups made it clear that the Hungarian Defence Office considered it justified to allow its use in such a situation. With regard to the terrorist threat, the legislative objective is to enable the responsible government to respond adequately to security challenges. It should be possible to deal with situations where the insufficient instrument of action at peace is no longer in place and the specific legislation in force is not yet adequate, as the latter would allow for unduly strong and democratic deficits to be imposed. The government does not aim to create other types of fear to prevent fear and to strengthen it with the possibility of a possible call for specific legislation in force, which is why we have been looking for a new exceptional rule of law, which already has a pattern where a terrorist threat can be attributed to the preventive defence situation. This does not, therefore, give rise to any kind of fear or groundless accusations such as the restoration of enlistment or the introduction of presidential regulation. The terrorist threat would be declared by the Parliament by a two-thirds majority. We believe that, in the case of each extraordinary legal order, such a majority is required by the Constitution from Parliament, there is no reason to deviate from this in any way. If we want to define the concept of a terrorist attack, as this is also a need, we propose to take the content of the terrorist act under the Criminal Code as a basis. We believe that this is a clear answer to all the uncertainties that can be raised with regard to regulation, and that, in this sense, the possibility of abuse is limited. With the new facts, a state of emergency, a state of emergency, a preventive defense situation, an unexpected attack and an emergency would create a sixth and another extraordinary legal situation. We believe that there can be no dispute in the current situation that only the possibility of obtaining additional information resulting from the anti-terrorist package presented by the Ministry of Interior can be properly used if, if such information is received, if the Hungarian State, the government at all, has the means to declare an extraordinary legal order or initiate an extraordinary legal order - the Parliament decides to order it - which will ensure that a terrorist act does not occur, so that a terrorist act can be avoided by declaring the terrorist threat. After the events of the last three to four months, we believe that the political force responsible for this proposal cannot say no, and in the details of the regulation, as I have already mentioned, I believe that the Ministry has acted as an exemplary constructivity and that parliamentary factions have acted. I believe that, after the last three meetings, no one can suggest that it was not the objective of the ruling groups involved in the meeting, so that we can change the way we regulate and reach an agreement with the opposition that will enable us to obtain a two-thirds majority. I think that linking any other subject with this proposal, any other amendment to the constitution that is not related to the subject, with this proposal is irresponsible, because if someone agrees that this amendment is necessary in order to guarantee the security of the country, if we can reach an agreement on the details of the regulation, then, as a matter of blackmail, we raise a different question in order to be able to take our joint responsibility and guarantee the security of the country and to fulfil this responsibility, it is irresponsible, and I therefore believe that, in addition to responsible opposition behaviour, we do not have to expect such blackmail, and we regard the statements made in this connection as merely a momentary misunderstanding. What I can therefore say in summary is that there is no doubt that the reason for the sixth amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary is given by the changed European security environment. This was not visible even in 2011, so the currentity of the regulation can hardly be disputed. Europe as a whole is looking for a response to the terrorist threat, which, by the way, is partly due to the irresponsible nature of the leaders of the European Union. Among the solutions currently proposed, there is nothing unknown in the European legal order, nothing that would give the government an unjustified, uncontrollable, uncontrollable overpower, and there is no such thing as to limit the possibility of abuse to the slightest possible. [[12.30]] At the same time, it allows the government to have clear information on this if there is a genuine, direct terrorist threat, then the appropriate exceptional legal order is available, and to prevent such a situation from occurring at the government's initiative, even by restricting fundamental rights. I would like to ask my fellow Members to try to preserve the constructivity that we have experienced during the five-party negotiations here in Parliament during the public debate. If this succeeds, I hope that the necessary majority will be ensured for the adoption of this proposal. For the ruling parties, it is a clear objective to ensure the security of the country. If, in this spirit and with this intention, there are proposals of a better nature, then we are open to them. However, we believe that this is the time to show the opposition parties that constructive consultation has meaning and benefits, because there is hardly an example of more constructive coordination not only in the past six years, but not even in the history of the last 20 years. We have adopted all the proposals, and we have tried to make them part of the proposed constitutional amendment, which has indeed served this common purpose. Thank you very much for your attention, and I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-10-36	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-05-10-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The state of siege is a sad compulsion; God save the country to need it; but it is even more serious than the state of siege if there is no law governing it. On 6 December 1868, Ferenc Deák, the sage of the homeland, told his thoughts in the House of Representatives. And there is a proposal worthy of these thoughts here in Parliament. Over the past period, there has been a significant negative change in the security policy environment of Hungary and Europe, which has made it a realistic reality to deal with some new types of crises in a way in which the forces have to play a significant role in the country. In our view, the defence aspect of the Hungarian legal system is not regulated, or is only slightly prepared, which requires legislation that responds to the situation when the individual types of crises actually take place. Today, the security challenge to the Hungarian nation, Europe, is no longer a threat to classic interstate wars. Terrorism within Europe is an internal disease that we have not been prepared for. We can say that the terrorist threat in some Western European states is like an earthquake, we know that there will be, but not where and when. Preparing, fighting and countering this will also require the redesign of the task system of self-defense bodies of a state in modern times. This task may affect almost all the purpose and regulation of the force, based on experience so far. However, the specific legal order cases in the current Fundamental Law are not suitable for dealing with the threat of terrorism or for a rapid response, so we need a new public-law basis that ensures a rapid but only proportionate response by the executive authority. After all, the fight against terrorism can, depending on the events, go from traditional peace-time police tasks to a special system of tasks requiring the use of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, The regulation of the special legal order in Hungary constitutes a closed logical order, which can be supplemented rather than broken from the inside. Thus, the rules of the Fundamental Law of Hungary concerning a special legal order would be added to a new, separate case, under the title of terrorist threat. Democratic guarantee rule that the terrorist threat situation would be declared by the Parliament by a two-thirds majority, the government would initiate the publication of the new case group by Parliament, in the event of significant and immediate terrorist threats or terrorist attacks. However, the need for the government to introduce at the time of the initiative the most necessary extraordinary measures to combat a new attack in the event of an attack or an attack is not contested. These are also necessary to protect citizens. The special legal order of the new case would therefore be announced by the Parliament, which would at the same time enable the Government to introduce additional exceptional measures following the first measures introduced by the Government at the initiative. Dear Parliament, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The state of siege is a sad compulsion; God save the country to need it; but it is even more serious than the state of siege if there is no law governing it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Based on what has been said and in the spirit of the government's support for the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-10-38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first of which will be held by keynote speakers in a 30-minute time frame for each group of representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Répássy Robert, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-10-39	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The last time Parliament discussed the amendment of the basic law almost three years ago, the Parliament adopted the fifth amendment of the Fundamental Law in September 2013. With the latest amendment of the Fundamental Law, the Government which initiated the amendment of the Fundamental Law sought to put an end to constitutional disputes relating to the Fundamental Law. This amendment to the basic law before us is trying to deal with a very different situation, this amendment of the Constitution, which is now before us, and the need to amend the Constitution, so to speak, that life has brought it. However, I cannot help but say that the Hungarian Socialist Party is once again not involved in the legislative process which is intended to guarantee the security of the citizens of the country, the legal order of the country. Once again, it will stay away from constitutionalisation so that it can then accuse its political opponents of not being able to participate in the creation of an amendment to the Fundamental Law by opposition parties. [[György Balla: Shame!]] This is what we have seen before, because for years the process of adopting the Fundamental Law has been criticised, while they have remained away from the establishment of the Fundamental Law with a decision of their own free will. But this attitude is also irresponsible because, as I said, the subject is not a matter of constitutional law, but of life, security and the safety of people. Dear House, 2015 has brought serious and difficult experiences for the European Union. The migrant flood has shown that legislation to protect borders does not apply, in the case of mass immigration, the legitimate security needs laid down in the Schengen Convention cannot be met, border surveillance is almost helpless against violent border crossings. The Government of Hungary and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán have been drawing attention to the consequences of the refugee crisis for more than a year and have taken a number of measures to fulfil the country's commitments to protect the Schengen borders. [[12.40]] For this reason, Hungarian politics was attacked by countless gender attacks at the time, while the majority agreed with it, and today there are more followers than opponents of Hungarian measures. Hungary was a compass in dealing with the refugee crisis, and we hope that by building safety conditions we can develop effective protection to preserve the internal order of the European Union. Some European politicians did not understand the true nature of the migration crisis, they underestimated the situation, they underestimated the dangers. In addition, there has also been no safety requirement at European level that would have allowed the invading immigrants to be screened for hostile people. The migration crisis has now become a matter of everyday security in individual countries. It is about whether all the freedoms that the European Union has created for its citizens can continue to be a part of our lives, or whether, as the events in France, Belgium, Germany show, migration will make the change of fear and habits part of our lives. We are slowly learning that freedom is worthless if it comes to fear and fear. If confidence in security is reduced in a society, measures must be taken to restore it. It is an already existing experience that the enemies of the European way of life also hide warriors among immigrants who deliberately want to destroy our way of life, the peace of society, the framework of our cooperation so far, regardless of our values. This is a whole new and unexpected situation. Experience in Europe has shown that these risks must be addressed, prevented or made impossible by all countries in a forward-looking way. The government and the governing parties have announced that they are seeking legal authority to protect the country because of the threat of terrorism. If there is still a natural request, which is in line with the spirit of the law, the first of these is that the government asks for the support of the National Assembly in order to protect the country's security. It is also the responsibility of the government to take steps to ensure the peace of society, with most knowledge. The Parliament has been authorised by voters to recognise risks, guarantee the protection and security of the country by means of legislation and to express it in the most appropriate legal form. If the legislative task is to amend the Fundamental Law, then if it is an enabling provision for the Government to proceed in an emergency, then it should support the country's self-defence. The vast majority of Hungarians, almost two million people, have signed their signatures to support the government's initiative to introduce restrictions on the regulation of immigration in order to protect the security of the country's inhabitants. As part of this responsible thinking and social cooperation, the necessary foresight is what appears in the bill before us. The proposal before us will not be postponed. It is possible to avoid the authority of the government to prevent immediate terrorist threats, but on the part of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance, we find it unacceptable that the opposition, by searching for objections, wants to prevent the threat of terrorism, sacrificing the safety of people, families and the country. In general, the obstructive activity of opposition parties has accompanied migration, and it is almost natural that there is no willingness to act together now. European events in Paris or Cologne show that there are situations where there is no time for absurd proposals, and that there is a need for effective and rapid action, such as that which now requires support from Members in connection with the bill before us. In France, the Balliberal Government has also introduced strict measures following terrorist attacks, which restrict some of the fundamental rights in an emergency, and a large majority of freedom-loving citizens have agreed. We do not yet know whether the fullness of freedoms and full security can be combined, but it seems that the necessary and proportionate limitation of fundamental rights in an emergency may be justified. Security sometimes takes precedence over the full range of freedoms. After 2011, the United States of America also introduced the concept of internal terrorism in the patriotic legislative law as an effective legislative step. This is not a foreign terrorist threat, but a risk that has long been involved with citizens. It has become a Freedom Act in the past period, and many provisions have not been extended today, but special powers have been retained as a basic protection strategy. The changed security environment requires responses to the legal order in accordance with the requirements of necessity and proportionality. During the debate on the fundamental laws relating to the Fundamental Law, a number of people argued that there was no need to amend the Fundamental Law, because there is a empowering provision for all threats. Please read carefully that the special legal order does not contain a single provision of authority in the event of an internal terrorist attack on the country. There is no complete security in the fight against terrorism, but we have no argument against it being pursued. By introducing the terrorist threat into the Fundamental Law, this is the pursuit. We do not ask for 100% confidence in this, but for as much confidence as possible in the good of the country. Dear House, The obvious key issue of the introduction of a terrorist threat into the Fundamental Law is trust, namely that it is up to the government to decide on an emergency and to impose the necessary measures. This is natural because no one else can have all the information they can weigh the threat of a terrorist threat. There is no other institution or agency in the country that has sufficient information on the nature of such a threat. This is the principle of confidence that is being debated, because as long as the majority of the governor is right to trust the government's discretion, opponents, as they have done before, often question the government's actions. Many times, the reference is that they have been disappointed before. When the government asks for confidence in countering the terrorist threat, it naturally involves mistrust, because in the report of trust there is always a slight uncertainty, unpredictability. Otherwise, trust wouldn't make any sense. When amending the Fundamental Law, they also vote to accept this reasonable fact, namely whether you believe that future events cannot be predicted with any foresight. Thus, they are forced to leave in the event of danger to those who know the nature of the danger. This approval is beneficial to everyone, but it is not for the protection of the values of party politics, but for the security of the country. The proposal before us is an exceptional case in which the usual opposition to government should step out of interest, whatever the nature of the current parliamentary relationship. Trust and mistrust can exist for a reason and may be unjustified. The mandate given in the event of a terrorist threat is a necessary trust, a confidence that violence is not part of the political struggle, violence can only be used to prevent threats to the country. In the modern history of Hungarian society, there is already a lesson in the fact that state violence on political issues is rejected by society, and that it deprives confidence of the political force that abused power, as it did after October 2006. The terrorist threat is not part of the fight, it is a means of defending the country. The discussions prior to the amendment of the Fundamental Law were not about public-law problems of the changes, but about the quality of trust between the parties. I could ask why the opposition would trust the ruling forces. Because it is always the responsibility of the governing forces to protect the country, even if political opponents do not particularly appreciate it. [[12.50]] Hungary cannot stand up to the threat of terrorism. Tomorrow's security is based on today's foresight, and many today are as skeptical as a year ago the risks of migration have been underestimated. The government is committed to preventing the emergence of a terrorist threat by all means, and everything must be done to protect Hungarian people, Hungarian families, public order and public security. We would be happiest if the new article were never to be applied, as, fortunately, the application of certain elements of the special legal order has not yet been part of our lives. Thinking about the situation and creating an appropriate legal situation are part of good governance, and the question will also be asked by those who prevent the Hungarian State from protecting the security of its inhabitants in such an emergency. Thank you for your attention and for your support for the amendment of the Fundamental Law and its related amendments. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-10-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Members of the MSZP Group are not in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-10-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as the speakers before me have repeatedly, in several ways, confirmed the point, not only for Hungary, but for almost all countries in the world, the security situation has fundamentally changed, new needs, new challenges and new tasks await everyone, especially here in the European Union, and especially in the context of the crisis caused by immigration. If we look around in our narrower environment, in the narrower environment in Europe, we can see that there is a very specific armed conflict going on east of us in Ukraine, south of us or, if you will, hundreds and thousands of illegal immigrants are besieging our southern borders every day. If we look at Bosnia or other regions of the Balkans and take into account, in particular, members of the National Security Committee, intelligence reports on the various jihadist cells of the Islamic State, then without exaggerating, we can conclude that the Balkans, even under ash, is glowing. And when we look at the Middle East, there's an amazing chaotic war that no one can see through, demanding the lives of innocent people every day. In this sense, it is not a question of doing something not only physically, morally, but also at legislative level. However, let us not forget where we started. I would like to say to my colleague Gergely Gulyás, as rapporteur, that this was not so correct, that this was not so constructive, because this story started quite differently in January. When the potential need for the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law arose for the first time - to put it this way - a less constructive debate, a less constructive five-party meeting, where parties were given a draft on almost everything but the fight against terrorism, not the fight against terrorism. In comparison, of course, a few months later, we have come to a very different level today, but given what we want to achieve, it is worth going through the things that have developed today's draft, which we can talk about here, step by step. I would put it this way, and perhaps on several occasions, I have said that there is not only a classic sense of terrorism in the word, but also political terrorism, and if we are talking about political terrorism, I cannot go past the plan put before us by the Ministry of Defence in January, which I have just said was about a lot but not about the fight against terrorism. Then it was precisely the communication of Fidesz-KDNP that Gergely Gulyás presented in a completely different context, with a completely different sign, that the story was that those who do not support this proposal are essentially pro-immigration, are essentially terrorist-friendly, and, if you will, put the safety of Hungarian citizens, as a whole, at risk. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth seeing what this text was about in the spirit of the so-called fight against terrorism. There have been such amazing proposals in this, and I would not go along with the fact that the government has announced this in a regulation, that it will enter into force for 60 days, and that until then, where and how, but I would highlight some points that we should also clarify for the future as to how long the fight against terrorism lasts, and how long the importance of the ban on political terrorism lasts. If we are thinking of frequency management and broadcasting, which you, in a subtle way, wanted to limit quite strongly in January, we can conclude here that this will not make Hungary's exposure less safe or less uncertain in relation to the various acts of terrorism. Then the freezing of unlimited natural persons, legal persons or other firms, interests, organizations during this period, the confiscation of all his assets, if you like, could explain a lot again, certainly not that this is happening in the spirit of the fight against terrorism. And that they had left the target out of every step of the way, I think that in itself was a key element of the draft that really caused the outrage of society as a whole, no less your camp, the outrage of a large part of your voters. Almost unlimited control of the Internet, mail, parcel and other mail can also be placed in this line. That, then, they made amazing suggestions that radios, televisions, other mass media, services, or unlimited interruptions, or that you invade and control them, could again explain a great deal, but certainly not that it would serve to curb terrorism. Whether there is a place for a ban on the entry of foreigners or other strict restrictions on the entry of foreigners, this can undoubtedly be linked to terrorism, but, as you have established in January, by no means, since all Hungarians who do not have Hungarian citizenship are listed here. Just think of the Hungarians in the Highlands, because most of them do not have Hungarian citizenship because of the Slovak legislation, but you would have ruled them out, too, while most of them have Hungarian family members, relatives, work, school and other ties. And if I just point out that you would have been able to break the obligations on public finances, the obligations arising from the budget, completely unilaterally, during this 60-day time period, there is a lot to think about here again, but not so much to fight terrorism. If we assume that every year the country is putting aside so-called reserves in the budget so that, if it is not given by God, it will be necessary to take this point out calmly, whether there is an unexpected attack or another disaster. But you didn't do that, but you tied the dog to the stake for many months, and you said that anyone who doesn't support this is Hungary's enemy, so that I should put it very sharply. We said - and here I would turn to Jobbik's position in particular - already in January that we were open to all reasonable, professional proposals to ensure the effective security of Hungary, the fight against terrorism or the prevention of terrorism. [[13.00]] We also said in January that we can imagine a new, sixth special legal order, but we can also imagine stepping up or taking further steps to combat terrorism by extending the existing special legal order. That didn't find any hearing ears for you until April. In the meantime, the Ministry of Interior has called a series of five-party negotiations to create an anti-terrorist package. Well, what Gergely Gulyás said was how constructive, how consensus-based, how positive a five-party negotiation was, indeed, only another ministry, the Ministry of the Interior, can say that about you. After all, we were not ready to receive an inconclusive draft, we were not ready to receive a package of legislation that otherwise had nothing to do with the actual or the stated goals, but during a series of five-party negotiations. If I remember correctly, there were three such meetings from week to week, where every opposition party with a political group made its proposal, everyone said their specific, rather sharp criticisms, and I don't really know much about a opposition proposal, regardless of party standing, whose proposal couldn't find hearing ears, especially because we were avoiding political horse-zungs, political communication didn't play on this field in this respect, but was purely professional and, let's just say, responsible. And that is why the BM has come up with a package of proposals that I believe will have the support of Parliament on the basis of a very broad consensus. However, as if from the point of view of the government, the right hand did not know what the left was doing: the Ministry of Defence also came up with the need for a five-party meeting, which Jobbik, of course, was as open as any other ministry had previously proposed a five-party meeting on any other subject, in order to actually increase the safety of Hungary. And what did we face in April? By saying that the Ministry of Defence continued to work on this new special legal order for three months, but all that happened was that six of the 30 points in January, including four that no one else criticized. What happened in this or why it took three months is a riddle, we didn't really solve it, but it's irrelevant from the point of view of the story. Not all of the parties with a faction involved there - since the MSZP, if you allow me, would not now turn to the responsibility and policy of the MSZP; I think that the empty benches here tell us everything about how they stand on such an important issue, for purely party political purposes and purely for communication purposes, so that later what can be said - but LMP and Jobbik took part, and there we made it quite clear at the very beginning that this is completely unacceptable to us in this form, because it is the same as that we learned in January, with some modification, with six points drawn out, is the same. Then, as if there had been some insight on the part of HM, at the next five-party meeting we met with a completely different tone, a completely different attitude, and we had a very fair discussion. The big question is, if you have such a responsibility in such an important matter for the security of this country, then why couldn't this be done in January? Why didn't we start immediately in January with a change in the security policy environment that no one ever questioned, at least hardly on the part of the parties with the factions; of course, we heard very different positions from other political forces, but it should be everyone's own responsibility to see how they feel about the situation, which is completely independent of Hungary. However, we are suffering subjects of everything that is happening in the territory of the European Union and here in Central and Eastern Europe today. In a completely different tone there has already been a completely different design, a later version or form of which can now be read by you. What we can conclude is that it is now really about what was called for in January, which was nothing else if I were to put it very sharply, so that we could see unfortunate series of images either during the attacks in Paris or during the assassinations in Brussels, that if - once again, I say the good Lord - Hungary would be similar, then the same police force, the same law enforcement agencies and the same authorities could act to deal with the situation at least as much as we have seen on the streets of Paris and Brussels. I'm referring specifically to the presence of the military. This is fully eligible. On our part, we see nothing wrong with Hungarian soldiers having the task of working and serving for the security of Hungarian people and Hungarian property or property elements, whether at present at the southern borders or in any street in any settlement in Hungary. If the need arises, then our foundation and our position is that, yes, Hungarian soldiers should be at the disposal of the Hungarian population and protect them and protect their material assets. There's nothing wrong with that. Our problem is that, as I have already said, in the spirit of political terrorism, too powerful efforts appear in the various texts, which otherwise have nothing to do with all the goals we want to achieve. However, the possibility of abuse is allowed in 0-24. If you had, for example, printed the January draft, looked at those 30 points, and if I had given them to you now and someone had read them through, and asked the rhetorical question whether you would have given such authority to the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, for example, not for 60 days, just for 60 minutes, I would be very interested in your honest answer. 'Cause I'm pretty sure I don't. In view of the various abuses and scandals of government over the last six years, do you wonder whether the opposition parties all said in January to the draft that we do not want to give this to Viktor Orbán, regardless of party standing, to the current Prime Minister, because that is not what this is about? And I believe that we can conclude this debate in this respect. If you are really presenting a professional proposal, it is quite clear that we will support everything that serves the country's security on a professional basis. The people before me have, without exception, projected to the amazing extent of immigration the security crisis that exists in different regions of Europe, with varying intensity and intensity. We can confirm that, we have repeatedly said that not all immigrants are terrorists, but all terrorists are immigrants. The Parisians, the Brusselsers, the Cologne and many, many countries could talk about this. It doesn't matter whether someone is second or third generation, it doesn't matter on what basis he is radicalized, whether it is religious or otherwise, material or otherwise. If radicalization has taken place, then these people are motivated by one goal: punishing sinners in his opinion, and it will cost them any and all human lives. We'd like to avoid that, too. However, this requires a responsibility that cannot give rise to uncertainty or a gap in the shield that others can otherwise serve for other purposes. So I think that we have made it clear that Jobbik will support all steps that actually and professionally serve the country's security. [[13.10]] However, what is the concern of the opposition parties, and to what do you owe the fact that no one clearly and clearly breaks a wand in support of or rejecting the Sixth Amendment to the Fundamental Law? Although - sorry - the socialists made it clear that they did not participate not only because they did not support it, but they decided weeks ago that they would not grant it. Here you can tease on the days, now according to the latest draft, this new special legal order is only for 15 days, and within 15 days the Parliament will have to decide with a two-thirds mandate. I would like to stress that if it is a professional proposal, and it really serves the purpose that we have set, then it can be 150 days in my personal opinion, but if it is not for that purpose, then it should not be 15 days, but 15 minutes. I think that this proposal before us is already a good professional basis for us to be able to negotiate on a substantive basis, and that is particularly important, what was also said at the ministerial five-party meeting, is that it does not mean that it will not be decided for 15 days, let us say, on the 15th day, with two thirds of Parliament, but it may also happen after three days. However, we would like to make an amendment here in accordance with the Fundamental Law: that it should be immediate. As far as possible, if such a special legal order is declared by the government, then Parliament should not wait for 10 or 13 days, but immediately convene and make a decision without delay, beyond what was, of course, said by the authors, that the relevant committees will be informed. I think that after the last month's length of time, after months of uncertainty about whether or not such a special legal order has become symbolic of this story, the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law in terms of whether we support it or not. I would like to raise a recent example, namely the amendment tabled by me and another Member to the Defence Act. They remember the terrible assassinations in Brussels - on the same day the Minister of Interior and, by the way, Viktor Orbán announced the second stage of the terrorist preparedness in Hungary, and it was a strange fintor of life that the Hungarian Defence and Police Committee had discussed the amendment that would have met precisely the demand indicated by the Ministry of Defence in January, which happens to be that, without the introduction of any new special legal order, if the Second degree of terror preparedness is announced in Hungary, the Hungarian Defence Office could be used automatically in any area of the country where the need is required, whether it be protection of objects, personal protection, be it any other kind of military task. If the work or capacity of the military, secret services and other bodies is not sufficient to maintain or maintain security, then there must be the defence which will ensure a shortage of numbers, technical or knowledge which is otherwise required by the moment or the situation in question. Of course, it was difficult for the Fidesz majority of the Defence and Police Committee to say that they did not, because the second level of terror was announced on that very day, and on that day the presence of the Hungarian Defence Forces at the southern borders, for example, was not the basis for declaring stage 2 of terrorist preparedness, but for declaring the crisis caused by mass immigration. However, imagine the situation, and I also said at the committee meeting that there will be an assassination in Brussels, an assassination in Paris, or, let's say, even closer, it will happen in Vienna or even in Hungary, even if the Hungarian government proclaims the second degree of terror preparedness, the Hungarian Defence Office will remain in the barracks, because there is no crisis caused by immigration, so there is no legal basis for the military. That is why we considered this amendment to be important, but, of course, the inclusion in the series was supported by the committee, but it was no longer on the agenda, and all legal objections were found in order not to bring this amendment to the plenary session. However, how similar this is to this proposal is exactly the essence and nature of the proposal, which is about how the military can be deployed in such a situation. I think that this is a kind of petty and arrogant force policy when we experience every day - by the way, no matter by which ministry - different scenes or minutes, that a necessary substitute and professionally supported by everyone, any opposition motion will be wiped out on some sort of trumped-up pretext, and then you will bring in the same basically the same thing, that's good. I said that in such a symbolic case as the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law, which aims to create a new special legal order, which wants to apply the Hungarian Defence Service in any area of Hungary in a terrorist situation or in a situation threatened by terrorism, let us not be petty and arrogant here. And we avoid this kind of political style, because it's not just a symbolic issue, it's a question of trust. This cannot be degraded to a party political basis, and no one expects that if we are politicalising out of strength and, on a political basis, using the right parliamentary majority, or based on the fear and naivety of the people, we are putting a kind of communication pressure on the opposition, if it does not support it, it is a traitor, if it does not support it, it is pro-immigration, it is a terrorist-friendly, and I do not want to list the many negative examples and stigmas that many opposition groups, parties and representatives have received from your various politicians in recent months, but that is not the case. If we want to introduce a new special legal order, if we really want to fight terrorism, if we really want to adopt a professional proposal based on a broad consensus on Hungary's security, which is about the application, use and use of the Hungarian Defence Forces, then let us not do so on a political basis. This proposal, I think, is an appropriate basis for conducting a professional debate, is a good basis for making it even better, obviously, by the various opposition forces, with a few amendments, and is an appropriate basis for exploiting a gap in the shield, but let us not make it so that if X, Y. or Z. submit that proposal, we will reject it and use opposition criticism or opposition rejection where appropriate, that he is certainly pro-immigration or terrorist, because there is no mention of it. On such a matter, we should seek only the widest possible consensus, and from here, it is not my place, but I do not see an LMP representative in the Chamber yet, but I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the LMP, for example, had a proposal to have in the Defence and Police Committee, or... [[To István Ikotity in the notary seat:]] - I'm sorry if the notary's here, there's an LMP in the room. I'm sorry. So, the LMP had a proposal to present, either in the National Security Committee or in the Defence and Police Committee, what any of the five existing special laws, together with the anti-terror package submitted by BM, lacked in order to require this sixth special legal order. I think that it is necessary in the sense that the five existing special laws respond to other challenges, that the anti-terror package of BM is also a substitute for its kind, but it does not and cannot, by definition, provide the legal basis, does not create the legal basis that the defence can be used, so in this sense I can answer it here, that is why it is necessary for the military to be used. [[13.20]] But if that is the wish of an opposition party, then I think that if you seek a broad consensus on this issue and wish constructive acceptance from everyone, then do so. It's not a big request, there's a series of different committees from week to week, and I think we can check out a lot of debates and many, many, many misunderstandings later. I believe that it is necessary and important for the Hungarian Defence Office to have a legal basis when there is a situation that has not yet existed, and we hope that it will not, but if necessary, that Hungarian soldiers can be used, not only in times of crisis caused by mass immigration along the fences, but also if there is some terrible tragedy or other unexpected event, and we need capacity, technical readiness or even physical and other intellectual knowledge. I therefore urge you to approach this issue on a purely professional basis and not to look at which side of the opposition is being formulated, whether professional or political. Because of your communication in recent months, I believe that you must tolerate some criticism of this issue, but you cannot question that the other groups, on a professional basis, choose security and seek security, but say no to overpower. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-10-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congressman, please.
u2016-05-10-43	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Sixth Amendment to the Fundamental Law, the rules on special legal order, is about supplementing the Fundamental Law with the terrorist threat situation. In short, the need to amend the Fundamental Law lies in the fact that, on the basis of the specific legal order cases currently in force, the responsible Hungarian government cannot provide an adequate and effective response to the security challenges of terrorism without appropriate legal conditions. Recognizing this, Fidesz, along with the Christian Democrats, considers it necessary to supplement the rules of the Fundamental Law on the special legal order with the terrorist threat, so that it is, on the one hand, deemed to be the internal security equivalent of the preventive defence situation, but it is narrower and, on the other hand, it is possible to use the Hungarian Defence Office in a sub-subsidiary way, i.e. the defence can be used if the forces of the police and national security services are no longer sufficient. The terrorist threat would be announced by a two-thirds majority of the Parliament on the government's initiative in the event of a major and direct terrorist threat or terrorist attack. In the event of a terrorist incident, the government could introduce the most necessary extraordinary measures to protect Hungary and Hungarian citizens. As a parliamentary guarantee, the Government would be obliged to keep the President of the Republic and the Standing Committees of Parliament informed of the measures introduced. For the terrorist attack, the Btk. 314. We would apply a definition of terrorism within the meaning of Article 5 of the Treaty. In the event of a terrorist threat, the extraordinary measures introduced would remain in force for 15 days or until the decision taken by Parliament. Ladies and Gentlemen, As part of the counter-terrorism action plan, the Christian Democrats are T/10416 on the sixth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law. The proposal for a regulation No 1 is supported. Our aim is to increase the defence capacity of our country by adopting the bill, so that we can act properly against terrorists. To do so, the government must provide all the means available to other European governments. By adopting the amendment, the Fundamental Law would add a new special legal order, the terrorist threat. If necessary, the Hungarian Defence Forces could be used to ensure the security of the country. Ladies and Gentlemen, Europe and Hungary's security environment have changed radically. There have been new types of security challenges in the world that no longer effectively address the specific legal order responses to previous classic interstate threats. In view of the above, we intend to fix the terrorist threat as a new special legal situation in the Fundamental Law. According to this, the Parliament, at the government's initiative, announces the terrorist threat for a limited period of time in the event of a significant and immediate terrorist attack or terrorist attack, while at the same time authorising the government to introduce exceptional measures laid down in a fundamental law. Two thirds of the Members of Parliament present would be required to announce or possibly extend the terrorist threat. Ladies and Gentlemen, At a time of terrorist threat, the government could create a decree to suspend the application of certain laws, derogate from legal provisions and take other extraordinary measures, as laid down in a fundamental law. In order to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people, we would like to adopt the bill as soon as possible and start implementing the counter-terrorism action plan. To do this, we also need the support of opposition representatives. Please support the bill. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-10-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-05-10-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is likely that there is agreement among Parliament's fractions that something has changed radically in Europe in 2015 and that we are facing a whole new type of threat, a new type of security situation. It is also evident from this situation that the fact that persons entered the Schengen area uncontrolled as an endless process, many of whom have submitted their asylum applications and others have not, has made it extremely difficult for law enforcement bodies to work throughout Europe within the Schengen area. We have also seen, in the case of criminal offences, that it has simply become untraceable to identify those persons who may be subject to illegal acts. I am saying this by saying that what has happened over the last year will not destroy Europe's responsibility at the gates of Europe, not regardless of Europe's policy for the past decade and a half. It does not destroy the responsibility that we owe to our fellow citizens who are seeking refuge partly because of the environment that Europe, the so-called developed West, has made unlivable and the inner conditions that have made it unlivable. At the same time, we must clearly see that the lack of control of the inflowing population and, at the same time, that at the same time, for example, Paris or Brussels has been affected by terrorist acts which also raise the involvement of forces trained for combat in the prevention and the eradication of such actions, obviously place a serious responsibility on the legislator. [[13.30]] The question we need to ask - whether it is a pro-government or a opposition Member of Parliament - is whether, if you do not give, God, an act of serious danger will occur in Hungary, we have done everything we can to prevent such an act from happening or to reduce its consequences. That is why, in this situation, the Member of Parliament responsible for this responsibility cannot say that he is not willing to negotiate or hear these claims, or that he is able to discuss these claims solely in relation to the government. At the same time, this responsibility falls heavily on the government side. At a time when we are faced with a new type of security situation, a threat that not only Hungary, but probably many other European countries, are not fully prepared for, no responsible government can play with this new type of emergency merely as a means of communication. That's what we saw in January. In January, we saw that Hungary's Government was not acting as a responsible government when it announced a consultation at the defence wallet, but as a way of extending the party atmosphere in Ibiza, they made a bill that they knew was not to vote for this by a sane opposition representative. I warn all of us that the government will be subjected to the terrorist situation or to preparations for new types of terrorist acts for its immediate communication interests. Different communication manoeuvres can be used on traditional domestic policy issues, whether it is the tax system, family support, labour law or property policy. However, some things are not a game, and not a game of human life. That is why I think it was deeply despicable and unscrupulous what the government and the Fidesz MEPs were doing at the defence wallet in January and then at the conciliation that was repeated in March. We also have to face the fact that if there is a real need to change the rules of the special legal order in force, and not to protect the government, not the Fidesz, not the Members of Parliament, but the lives of the Hungarian people, a consensus should not only be sought to ensure that the two-thirds majority is stable, so that the government side is not accidentally surprised by the vote. When we talk about special rules of law, at all - I note - when we talk about the Fundamental Law, the constitution of a country, we have good reason, and even if it happens to have a two-thirds majority, there is good reason to seek consensus. The rules that we are discussing now, if you do not give us, the situation is turning sharp, you will be able to fulfill your mission if each citizen feels that these rules, if any, are really necessary in order to protect his family and their living environment. If and if any significant group of citizens believe that these changed special rules of law do not actually serve to protect the lives of their families and their residential environment, but merely the power aspirations of the Prime Minister or the government side, then woe to us, because there are serious obstacles to the enforcement of still justified special measures of law. I would like to draw the attention of the pro-government Members to the fact that all legislation is true, but especially the special rules of law, so that, in order to apply them effectively, the voluntary behaviour of all citizens is essential, as far as possible. At the same time, if these special rules of law are subject to momentary power communication interests, if they dictate from the Habony works what should be included in the Fundamental Law, because at the moment it seems a good idea, even if they are somehow able to obtain a two-thirds majority, there is a terrible danger if you do not give it to God, these rules must be applied in real terms. That is why I would ask you to behave, either in the debate on this amendment of the basic law or in any other amendment of the law for similar purposes, as, by the way, the Ministry of Home Affairs has exemplary done in the anti-terrorist legislative package. The fact is that if communication manoeuvres replace meaningful conciliation and not the convincing of opposition representatives, regardless of party standing, world view, then unfortunately, these rules will not be able to fulfil their vocation, and this could cost people lives. That's what's at stake. Dear Parliament, During the negotiations, we said that, although the development of the Constitution is still on the move in Europe, there is no evidence of a terrorist-type emergency at present, there is no doubt that there are European, Western European states where, for example, it could have been much easier for the government to introduce a special legal order under its own authority than the Hungarian legislation so far. It should also be added that Switzerland is such a country, for example, that these are political cultures where it does not occur to anyone that the government applies these special rules of law abusively, where appropriate. We also said in the discussions, and I would like to make it clear once again that the article on the special legal order of the Fundamental Law in force is practically one which takes over the relevant rules of the Constitution before 2011 and contains an institution for dealing with the situation in the context of terrorist acts. Both the state of emergency, the preventive defense situation and the unexpected attack are facts that could be called upon to deal with terrorist situations with a minor modification, and even the current basic rule of law of the state of emergency can be explicitly called for the elimination of acts of terrorism which have already taken place. If we add to this that, in addition to the current Fundamental Law, the law on police law, the law on criminal proceedings and the national security law are, in principle, capable of preventing or eliminating terrorist acts, then it is necessary to explain why, in the present situation, it is necessary to apply the special rule of law of the Fundamental Law, the basic law of granite strength. Undoubtedly, and that is why we have entered into negotiations, as I said in my introduction, that new types of threats seriously raise the need to strengthen police activities with the help of forces trained for combat. At the same time - and this has been indicated in the five-party negotiations - this alone would not justify calling on the police to assist in the eradication of acts of terrorism and calling on the police and civil services to help, which alone would not justify changing the situation in the special legal order. We have also said that there is at least a concern that the government responsible for the same situation, the same security challenge, is running the change of legislation on two lines. [[13.40]] It is a matter that, if Hungary has to face such a security challenge directly, the bill drawn up in the care of the Ministry of the Interior and the amendment of the basic law that we are discussing must be applied together with the related legislative amendments. Again, I would like to draw attention to the risk of the matter. In any other area of law, if legislation is run on two different lines in the same life situation, this can lead to serious codification, interpretation and coherence problems. In a question directly affecting people's lives and safety, it is simply a risk that cannot be taken responsibly. The Government therefore has an explanation as to why the amendment of the basic law before us and the related legislative amendments were not discussed and presented to the House together with an anti-terrorist package, which was otherwise highly professional and pragmatically carried out before the Ministry of Interior, and we must be able to apply these laws at the same time in the event of a hypothetical and regulatory emergency. Last but not least, we made it clear in January, and in the most recent, undoubtedly already extremely constructive atmosphere, if you will no longer like, in the Ministry of Defence in Ibiza's party mood, that the zeroth question for LMP is whether the responsible government will finally, after four months, be able to present to citizens, or if this presentation concerns classified information, then the two competent committees, the Defence and Police and the National Security Committee, will be able to identify the types of risks inherent to the current basic legislation of the special legal order in the changed European security situation. A responsible government, and not Lajos Kósa or other Fidesz politicians, should be able to tell people or elected representatives of civil and military services where the current special rule of law conceals risks that the government cannot take and therefore asks Members of Parliament to help amend the Fundamental Law. We have made it clear that if, and if, acting as responsible governments, you can demonstrate to at least the two committees concerned, you can model where the current regulation of the special legal order hides risks in the case of new types of terrorist acts seen in Paris, Brussels, and if you are able to modify the special legal rules of the Fundamental Law in order to detect these risks, the LMP will be a partner in this amendment. At the same time, it has been four months, three weeks since the last consultation, and I am not aware that either Lajos Kósa, who is both a faction leader and the chairman of the Defence and Police Committee, or the Ministry of Home Affairs, would have initiated the National Security Committee, or even the authors would have initiated a demonstration of the risks posed by the current regulation of the special legal order. You can't seriously think that any opposition Member will touch the Fundamental Law to announce. You can't seriously think that when we really have very constructive discussions at home when we know precisely that the current text of the Fundamental Law, just as the previous constitution and related sectoral law enforcement laws contain instruments, that we will assist with the amendment of the basic law on the basis of a declaration in this situation. The responsible government has a dog's duty to model, present to citizens, elected representatives of citizens, where the system is not sufficiently closed in such a hypothetical emergency and what changes are needed in relation to it. You're four months behind schedule. They didn't show this. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] As the internal affairs wallet, the Minister of Interior, was able to demonstrate at the meetings - we did not necessarily agree on everything, but he was able to demonstrate - what specific measures of law enforcement are needed for the individual changes, this has not yet been presented by the military wallet or by the pro-government representatives. And I'm most interested in the leaders of the civil and military secret services in this area, and what they can show to the National Security and Police Committee, whether it is really about the fact that the basic legislation of the special legal order is incomplete and does not protect us from these new types of security threats, or whether it seemed a good idea at the moment in Ibiza to amend the Fundamental Law, and you can no longer back out of this announcement. That's a decision to make. In the latter case, do not expect the opposition to cooperate, I think. In the former case, however, it is the duty of every responsible Member of Parliament to consider how to ensure the safety of Hungarian people. Dear Parliament, Undoubtedly, what Gergely Gulyás said in his expozee was that the text before us was, in many respects, so to say, closer to the requirements of the rule of law, if you will, more serious than in the January version, that is true, but still not enough. We started with you telling the opposition in January to give the Prime Minister a blank cheque to do what he wants in the country for 60 days in the event of a major terrorist threat. It was obvious to you, too, what will be the united response of opposition representatives with a very different view of the world. In comparison, the situation has undoubtedly changed considerably compared to January, but the most important issue is the text, provided that they are able to demonstrate to the committees that there is a need for a fundamental amendment at all, that, after trying to deal with a new type of situation, we should be very careful to operate with certain concepts. Not only are we unable to establish the nature of the major terrorist threat, but the current text does not give us any certainty and no abuse. Therefore, if and if the government can present it to opposition representatives or if the authors can demonstrate that it is necessary and essential to amend the special legal order at specific points, LMP will continue to insist that this is done only in order to prevent the implementation of a serious terrorist attack in preparation. Once again, in order to prevent the implementation of a serious terrorist attack in preparation, we are open to a substantive discussion on the amendment of the basic law if, by the way, services and wallets have presented the risks arising from the current legislation to the committees. Dear Parliament, It remains unclear why in such a case 15 days are needed while the government can take action on its own initiative. I would add that modesty should be respected, because the current version of the text gives the government a much narrower margin than the January version. But at the same time, I think that there is no responsible Member of Parliament who would not come home if he called me home if, by the way, the Parliament had to take special measures in a short time. Maybe even a plane from Ibiza can fly home if there's a direct threat of a terrorist attack in the country. [[István Ikotity is replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] So I continue to dispute the need for a maximum of 15 days of free space. We continue to insist that a 72-hour free hand should be sufficient for the government. At the same time, I will propose and propose an amendment to this, which I know is not house-like, but perhaps raises the interest of the pro-government representatives, that the deadline of up to 15 days may constitute a negotiating basis if we amend the parliamentary law in parallel, so that if a motion is received by Parliament in order to introduce any special legal order, the Speaker will convene Parliament more quickly than before, i.e. within 72 or 48 hours, so that we should speed up the parliamentary agenda in parallel. The issue at stake in the fundamental law amendment before us is to apply the principles of purpose, necessity and proportionality. [[13.50]] In Hungarian, it is about that if and if the government is given the opportunity to introduce a special legal order, say, in the event of a terrorist attack in the north of Pest, it is not necessarily necessary to introduce a curfew in Budafok. In English, I would like to point out that such a special legal order can never be a blank cheque in the sense that it does not mean that, if the conditions for introducing a special legal order exist, power can choose anything from this menu. Only there and only to the extent that it is strictly necessary in order to eliminate the threat and to counter the threat and to protect human life can it impose a limitation of rights. This is what the principles of necessity and proportionality and purpose-boundness mean, which we intend to introduce through both the amendment of the basic law and the related amendment of the defence law. Dear Parliament, I think that when we talk about special changes in the legal order, it is particularly important to respect the balance of powers. It is not just a matter of the fact that the 15-day free movement may be somewhat excessive for the government, but it is also about the fact that when Parliament orders a special legal order because of a hypothetical threat, it is one thing that the order is bound to two-thirds, but we want to link its extension to four-fifths. In the case of an extension, the maximum possible political consensus must also be established here in Parliament. I would also like to say that, of course - as the rapporteur said in the expozee - we are aware that in this changed situation, the call for assistance from the defence may be necessary, but I am obliged to say in this context, in addition to the fact that the police must clearly have the main role here and the right to conduct, it must be made clear that at present the security risk to Hungary is the fragmentation of the bodies entrusted with counter-terrorist tasks in the first place. Just last year's tragic European actions have shown that the greatest security risk in both France and Belgium has been the failure of the necessary information to reach the required place at the right speed and at the right time. I continue to ask the government, if it wants to do everything that is dictated by their conscience and by the oath of the members of the government, to make a proposal urgently in order to eliminate the fragmentation of anti-terrorist organs. To sum up, I can say that if, and if, after four months of delay, the government finally takes itself and the country seriously and presents to the committees the extent to which the current regulation of the special legal order does not adequately protect the risks to the lives and safety of the Hungarian people, we are ready to enter into a substantive parliamentary debate and, after considering the amendments that have been made, we would be ready to give our vote for such a fundamental law amendment. However, if and if the services and the wallet are unable to demonstrate to the two committees the risks inherent in the current regulation of the special legal order, no matter how the text of the present proposal is refined, it cannot be spoken of in a meaningful manner. It can't be because we can't see exactly what the risk is. The problem is not only that when a power is unduly given too much free hand and leeway, it is also a problem if, where appropriate, it turns out that it is really necessary for the safety of people to apply the basic legislation of the special legal order, but, since the government is not able to demonstrate where this regulation currently holds a risk, we may not intervene in the interests of the safety of people where it would otherwise be absolutely necessary. Therefore, if the government continues to be unable to do so, regardless of the quality of the text, we will not give our vote to the amendment of the basic law in this case. Moreover, in the case of the text, I would like to continue to confirm that if, and in addition to the current special legal order situations, between which the state of emergency still concerns the eradication of the terrorist offence, there is a need for such a new type of preventive protection situation, as is the case for a new sub-type to be incorporated into the Fundamental Law, we operate with new concepts in the new situation, but these must be clearly recorded in the current legal order, precisely in order to have confidence in an emergency and to have a clear margin for the legislator. Therefore, the starting point in this case is also, if it is indeed demonstrated that the amendment of the special legal order is essential that this is possible only in order to prevent the implementation of a serious terrorist attack which is being prepared, in each case, the need and proportionality and the commitment to its purpose must be demonstrated, and not least everything must be done to ensure that the government is free to take the necessary measures, not 15 days, but as soon as possible. We also need an explanation, I hope, from the government itself to explain why legislation is run on two separate lines in terms of a particular situation, a particular emergency, why they start a communication game on one side in January, and then on the other side the internal affairs portfolio begins a serious professional consultation on the same life situation. The fact that two separate legislative proposals are run on two lines hides risks in itself and expects an explanation. We are waiting for these explanations in the coming weeks, and we will make it conditional on whether it is worth discussing this amendment to the basic law at all. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-10-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent Member who has applied for the speech. This is Congresswoman Agnes Vadai speaking. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-10-47	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For the Democratic Coalition, the security, freedom and well-being of Hungarian citizens and the security of Hungary are a priority. Of course, we also consider the fight against terrorism to be equally important. It should be made clear that, in recent weeks, months, perhaps even the last six years, the Hungarian government has regularly pursued the so-called security policy, namely, in each case where it felt the need to support its proposal politically, it drew up a security card against citizens and used for the benefit of citizens. I said the security card against it for a reason, because my fellow opposition Members talked a lot about what they talked about in five-party meetings and smoky little rooms when it came to a terrorist threat or a new super-secret service. In recent weeks, the two ministers of the government, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior, have had the task of implementing Viktor Orbán's great dream. Unfortunately, the defence wallet was the bad policeman, and as we have heard from our opposition colleagues here, the Ministry of Interior was the good policeman. I would like to draw the attention of my opposition colleagues to the fact that a good policeman is a clever police officer, because the bill submitted by BM has little to do with the fight against terrorism, has much more to do with the establishment of a so-called super-secret service, which would have unlimited access to all kinds of information, in fact without any responsibility, since TIBEK would only distribute the information needs, this information should be obtained by the secret services, and for the first time, it would be the case that a civil society organisation, TIBEK, because it would be disposing military secret service, actually civil. I think the defense wallet should have something to say about that. [[14.00]] Not to mention that from now on, if adopted in the bill submitted by BM, the health data of Hungarian citizens, including TIBEK, and the government through TIBEK, can be researched without limit. So we may be left alone in this matter, but the Democratic Coalition believes that this form of combating terrorism cannot be accepted. Nor can the constitutional amendment tabled by HM be accepted. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] My fellow opposition or pro-government Members spoke about the question of the public and the question of trust. I think the question of the public became quite clear that there was no one when all five-party negotiations were called together, rather than having a truly professional debate on the fight against terrorism in the competent committees of the Parliament, and then opening this debate to Hungarian society. The fight against terrorism, and I agree with my fellow Members on this, inevitably goes hand in hand with the restriction of certain freedoms under legal guarantees. And I think that this issue should be discussed with Hungarian citizens. If national consultation makes sense, then in such cases national consultation makes sense how much of the limit Hungarian citizens can bear from any government. As far as the question of trust is concerned, perhaps Congressman Répássy referred to us as opponents, I think he is a maximum rival, but if he sees me as an enemy, perhaps as an enemy, or as opposition representatives, that is his concern, but the question of trust when, for example, the government wants to form a decree in an extraordinary legal order, it is indeed very important. The question, my fellow members of the Government, is whether, in any way, in the last six years, this government has deserved to be trusted when it comes to security issues. There was only one case where the Democratic Coalition, although quite well-known and well-known, supported our position on government policy, supported a proposal submitted by the government, and this was the Hungarian participation in the military operation against the Islamic State. We thought this was a very important issue, but I would like to say that this vote was neither, this support was given to the Hungarian Government at the time, but rather to the matter. Because this has been the only case in the past, in terms of security matters, where we have seen that it is the acceptable responsible attitude of opposition representatives, or at least of the Democratic Coalition, if the Hungarian soldiers are involved in such a multiethnic battle. But let's see if other issues where it was not a remote security issue, but a security issue directly affecting Hungary, could be trusted by the government. I would like to highlight three issues here. The first is the question of a higher level of terror ordered after the assassinations in Brussels. You created it, you remanded it when you need to raise the warp from three to two. You know, when Hungary is directly threatened by terrorism, or there is specific, partially or entirely controlled information available to the competent bodies, which suggests that a terrorist attack will occur in Hungary. Fellow Members! The representatives of the Hungarian Government could not prove that such information was available either at the committee meeting or elsewhere. This was the first or one of the cases where trust was a little shaken. Then came the government action on the crisis situation caused by mass immigration, where we suddenly realized that this crisis was not only in the southern counties, but it was ordered for the whole of Hungary. At a committee meeting, I specifically asked which point of the law you have passed the order for the crisis caused by mass immigration throughout Hungary. My fellow Members, I have not received a meaningful answer. They could not tell whether the relevant paragraph was (a), (b) or (c). So today, there is a crisis caused by mass immigration in Újlipótváros without knowing the legal background and conditions of this. Then there was also a concrete matter, my fellow Members, where, I must say, not only the government, but also the main body in charge of counter-terrorism has been permanently dealt with. In the meantime, I didn't have to say that the Counter-Terrorism Center was a model of counterterrorism, but it was a final act when the National Security Committee literally led government and opposition representatives. The Director General of the TEK claimed that a very serious terrorist attack is possible in Hungary, with international business, and that even the lives of state leaders may be at risk. Then it turned out it was all a net lie. After that, my fellow Members, I would like to ask you that when you do not comply with our own laws, you do not comply with your own regulations, and then the body you set up lies in the eyes of the members of the National Security Committee, indiscriminately, because you lied to the eyes of the pro-government representatives in the same way, how can you be trusted? How can you trust this government? If we ignore this question of trust because the fight against terrorism, at least on the basis of my studies, does not necessarily have to be based on trusting you. Not necessarily. Even that can be dismissed. If you could explain to me why, in the event of a major and immediate threat of a terrorist attack, the competent authorities do not do their job and catch them if they have such information, the terrorists, instead of coming into Parliament and wanting to introduce an extraordinary legal order, I really don't know. Because the case of the terrorist attack is quite different. I share this in the opinion of my fellow Members who say that we should sit down and really look at it as a piece, so that in the current cases of extraordinary legal order, if a terrorist attack were not to happen, but if such a case were to occur in Hungary, then what would the competent authorities, in particular the Hungarian police, the emergency response, be able to do and what would not be able to do, and little, let us say, what the Hungarian Defence Office would be capable of and what would not be able to do. And if we see together, indeed professionally, that there is a problem here, then I say that it is okay, in the event of a terrorist attack, it is in the interests of all of us to act quickly by the armed and police, but especially by law enforcement, which is what they do. But the significant and immediate danger of a terrorist attack, my fellow Members, cannot be defined even on the basis of the Btk. situation cited. Because, to say the general justification is not part of the Fundamental Law, I would like to say this, while it is stated here in the detailed explanation that the interpretation of the terrorist attack is governed by the facts of the terrorist act under the Criminal Code. Fellow Members! This explanation is not part of the fundamental law amendment! So it's not defined. Moreover, the terrorist attack already refers to an incident, and the significant and immediate danger of a terrorist attack is some sort of assumption. I therefore believe that this part of your amendment in this form is all legally incomprehensible, but I would like to say, fellow Members, if you have studied the literature of the fight against terrorism, then you know that it is also incomprehensible. Because in this case, if there is any immediate danger, this information is at the disposal of the secret services and the agencies to which it belongs. At this time, however, they have a statutory obligation to take action against them. For if there is information that someone in Hungary is planning a terrorist attack and that information is in the hands of the police or the secret service, then the police and the secret service must act by law. This does not require the government to make a separate decree. Everyone just has to do their job in this case. At the moment, it seems to be more of a vague, levitated thing, which we do not know yet, and we do not see very much. We note, of course, that there will be opposition representatives, this has now been around, although some of the most peacock danced on this issue, there may be opposition representatives who will support the amendment of this Fundamental Law. That is why I say that you should study it, please, fellow Members. And that goes for everyone, including government representatives, because they don't always have to automatically say yes to tailor-made government proposals. In particular, opposition representatives, since the opposition has been asked by the government, towards the opposition, to support this proposal, that there is certainly no direct and significant threat of a terrorist attack at the moment defined in this bill or in this proposal for a constitutional amendment. [[14.10]] The question of the Hungarian Defence Forces has been mentioned several times. I am, by the way, very sorry that one of the signatories of the amendment proposals, legislative package and legislative package relating to the Fundamental Law is the Minister of Defence as an individual motion, and I would have preferred to have the Minister of Defence sitting here. Of course, this is no disrespect to the Secretary of State, but the head of the wallet is István Simicska, Minister of Defence, and he is one of the authors. The Hungarian Defence Office is also preferred to be applied to tasks which are not even possible under the Fundamental Law. It is certain that the Hungarian Army cannot be applied to fence construction, nor can Röszke be used for stand-alone patrols, which I have experienced, because even according to your rules, soldiers should patrol with the police, while I personally experienced Röszke that the Hungarian soldiers are patrolling the border alone, which I do not know by what legal authority they are doing. What I do know, my fellow Members, is that it is easy to set a task for the Hungarian Defence Office in this Chamber, and it is easy to say that the soldiers will solve this problem, only the soldiers must be equipped for it, soldiers must be trained for it, the number of soldiers must be increased, as the Hungarian Defence Office is struggling with a deficit of at least 5-6 thousand people at the moment, and the Hungarian Defence and Defence Fund budgets must be increased. No task can be assigned to the Hungarian Defence Office until these conditions are met. All in all, I can therefore say, fellow Members, that the Democratic Coalition neither supports the super-secret service submitted by BM nor the bill seeking out the everyday life of Hungarian citizens, because it is not acceptable for anyone to be able to access any personal data from the point of view of health data only for security policy purposes, nor for the current moment by HM acting as a bad policeman - and I am truly sorry about this because this degrades the defence wallet and the Hungarian Defence Office - nor does it support the amendment of the basic law submitted by the defence portfolio, because this amendment is not about the fight against terrorism, but is about how the Orbán Government intends to regain exclusive power under some opaque conditions, and how it intends to limit all its rights related to the freedom and freedom of Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-10-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I declare that the joint general debate will be adjourned and will continue on this day. Dear Parliament, Coming up next is 21 of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Continue and conclude the general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Paris Agreement adopted at its Conference. Government referral T/10502. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to remind you that during the general debate, the opening speech of the author, the speech of the lead speakers and the speech of the first independent Member took place. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, representative of Fidesz, is the first in the order of normal speakers. Here you go.
u2016-05-10-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, President János Áder said in a large report today, on the one hand, what happened in Paris, but I think he did much more than that. In his account, I'd rather give you the title of what happens after Paris. The point of the report was that certain agreements were concluded or at least started between the parties in Paris. The large number of states there, and I have to say that an unusually large number of states have seemed to support in a consistent manner the solution that is inexhaustible to mankind. President-in-Office of the Republic stated that there is no particular debate today that there is undoubtedly a climate change in the world today and that it affects humanity, against which we must find certain means. He also stated that the position of science in this regard is largely - I stress: it is overwhelmingly - the same. Last but not least, another statement was also important, namely that human activity, especially the economic and industrial activity of man, plays a decisive role in adverse climate change trends. Dear House, I would like to point out some of the facts that led me to ask for the floor. I am convinced that if we do not start from the right premises, then the conclusion will not be right either. I think Spinosa was absolutely right about that, and we need to follow that. The fact that there is a climate change in progress that has perhaps not been experienced by mankind to this extent, except perhaps the climate change that practically destroyed one part of humanity about 10-15 thousand years ago. However, it is also a fact that there are some forms of climate change that have already been experienced within a lifetime and from which we have not drawn any conclusions, especially the wrong conclusions. Allow me to give you two examples. In the year 1859-60-61 Hungary was hit by a huge drought, which was combined with - and this was the rare and exceptional - a very prolonged, lengthy frost damage. This in Hungary, where there has always been a surplus in food production for a long, long time, has caused a particular famine. In some areas a catastrophic situation has developed. But perhaps the other example is even more convincing. In the United States, where so advanced agriculture had developed in the 1930s, in the 1930s, a massive windstorm that continued and prolonged, coupled with a great heat, destroyed the entire state, forced tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people to leave their homes, because the living conditions and basic conditions did not remain. Dear House, So the danger is real. But have we measured the real danger in a proper way - this is another question - and are we willing to face the causes of this? On the one hand, I am one of those who very strongly believe that today, on a scientific issue, especially when science is very sure, it is always appropriate to be skeptical. During my long life, in physics, chemistry, so basic natural sciences, there have been changes that have made former truths considered objective doubtful. But even more so, for example, in the field of astronomy, where we need to know almost every day about changes that mankind had never known before. Therefore, only the reliance on scientific tools in itself can be doubtful. It is about this, and I would like to point out that the coming period is not just about how and to what extent we can reduce emissions, and if we reduce it, what results and consequences will this have, because I believe in this respect we do not have any real experience yet. Since this issue has concerned mankind at all since Kyoto, and since the subsequent agreements, my knowledge and experience have shown that there has not been a decisive change, even the results are extremely modest, if we can talk about results at all. Then somewhere I think we're gonna have to trade for reasons. What are we afraid to face? I think it's time we deal with this. During the first industrial revolution, there were just over two billion people on Earth. Today, when we are facing the third major industrial revolution There are 7.3 billion people on Earth, and most likely, according to every calculation, if there is no turnaround here, we will reach the number of 9 billion or even 10 billion after not so long. [[14.20]] János Balogh, a great scientist from Turkeve, who had been undeserved, perhaps for the first time in Hungary, pointed out what the human footprint meant. Perhaps for the first time he pointed out it here, and society didn't notice what it meant to be Earth's ability to sustain it. We do not dare to face the fact that there is a decline in humanity in one part of the world today and a very powerful overgrowth in the other. It's a matter of fact. Even if we keep quiet about it, it's true. It is clear that the zones that had already experienced this, just after a great movement of freedom in the 1940s and 1950s, when the momentum and freedom brought these peoples forward, somewhere in the equator region of Africa, had given hope that progress would come, growth would come, but there was a prolonged, lasting tribulation. Mankind must also face this. And what we have to face here is the unfair allocation of resources. If the allocation of resources remains the way it is now, I must say that I do not believe that it is the strongest powers that would be willing to create a situation for mankind through self-limiting - because that is what it is - when their contained own output, their own industrial production, would contribute to getting past this situation which is undoubtedly critical. The President of the Republic pointed out a number of issues that could be a guide for Hungary and should be taken into account. It is quite clear that Hungary has taken significant steps in the last 25 years, especially in the last 7-8 years, against all the celebrities, in order to create a situation where we Hungarians can contribute to desirable and positive changes in a way that is sufficient to accommodate less than ten million populations and relatively small areas today. But let us not deceive ourselves, first and foremost, we must find solutions - the President of the Republic has given us an example in this direction and has shown us the way - that will bring us Hungarians success in this area in the coming times. These breakout points need to be found and moved on. At the same time, we must also face - and I think this is clear - the fact that in the allocation of resources, we Hungarians must be among those who do not accept it, they cannot accept as permanent that the resources of humanity are distributed without the future and opportunity of the greater part of our fellowman. You have to be able to move past that. This way of selfishness and this opportunity has already brought mankind into a revolution or two, some catastrophic situations from which it has been very difficult to move on. Today, therefore, Paris also shows the way to look for solutions in this direction. Dear House, I have asked for the floor today because I think that today is a moment where it is worth considering what we can do further so that we do not go further on the road that has created particularly harmful situations that are detrimental to humanity in the field of industrial events so far. To do so, however, I believe that within our own society we must also find the balance points that are moving within our own society in the direction where all members of Hungarian society will look forward to the future with hope. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-05-10-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of LMP, is next. Here you go.
u2016-05-10-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. During the morning, I listened to the speeches by the high-pitched lead speaker, listened with interest to President Áder's speech, and I also listened with surprise to Minister Seszták's environmentalist thoughts, and, to tell you the truth, I had a lot of bad feelings about them, because it is very, very difficult to accept these noble words, noble objectives and thoughts from representatives of a government who achieve virtually opposite activities in all their actions. President Áder, just like Minister Sesztak, began his speech with a quote, please allow me to do the same, and let me begin with not only the same author, Albert Szent-Györgyi, as President. The majority of political leaders only care about their own re-election and preservation of their power, feeding the people arguments that can be refuted by the simplest logic, and destroying the sublime ideas on which our country was built. In contrast, our youth can only do one thing: completely reject the old values. But how disappointing it must be to see his corrective intentions quickly rejected by today's split-minded adult population, the political elite, since today's 40 - year - olds will hardly be there when the final judgment they have prepared falls on the heads of today's young people. These thoughts, this quote, came to my mind as President Áder spoke, because we talked about this Paris all morning and spoke as if the world were getting a escape loophole and had a chance with this agreement to move forward. But let me remind you of a few things, since we've seen some of these agreements. In 1971, the International Wetlands Convention was signed in the town of Ramsar, in Iran, in the southern part of Lake Caspi, and Hungary joined it very early, and undertook to preserve Hungary's wetland habitats and to do everything possible to protect species linked to wetlands. Compared to this, the current government, for example, allows this Ramsari water habitat to be destroyed in Balatonfenyves and several parts of Lake Balaton, allowing hundreds of millions of investors to use this public property and this habitat for privatisation purposes. I could list the Tisza-coastal developments, the ideas that emerge along the Drava, which are very often putting at risk the community of life that we have undertaken in an international commitment. It was not mentioned today that we have accepted this with the same tone of words, but nothing happened.In 1972 a convention was concluded in Paris for the protection of our cultural and natural heritage. Compared to this, even for the protection of cultural heritage, there is an opportunity to raise topical policy issues for the Castle of Buda, and a number of times it occurs that we are essentially destroying the values that we have committed. This is what happened when, a year or two ago, we talked about Hortobágy, which is also part of the world's heritage, how we take away the grazing livestock that has maintained the landscape that has created that value for centuries. This was not mentioned either, but in a rising mood, it is also our international obligation.1972, Washington: an international convention against protected and endangered species. The government hasn't spent a penny on it in years. I, since I've been here, have spent the last two years constantly trying to make budget amendments to this end, nothing has happened. But don't look like I want to hurt the current government, nothing happened in the last ten years to stop the illegal trade that affects endangered species.In 1972, the first report of the Rome Club entitled "Boundaries of Growth" was published, and then the same ideas came up as what my fellow Member, Minister Béla Turi-Kovács, said. We know this, please, it's been 40 years since we've been in trouble. Nevertheless, politicians go to these elegant receptions, fly to large international conventions around the world, and, in addition to caviar bets, they say that something should be done, while, as a decision-maker, they do nothing in their own country to make a meaningful change.1972, Stockholm: UN conference, where practically the world's environmental programme was created. To date, the government has taken on a multitude of commitments, in which no progress is made. 1979, Geneva: an international framework agreement on the reduction of cross-border air pollution, in practice on the detection and elimination of cross-border pollution that our country should be dealing with. As we have heard and supported the government's efforts to reduce PM10 impurities in agreement with my fellow government representatives in the commission, because we are practically importing dirt into Hungary, it accepts this because of the geographical characteristics of the Carpathian Basin, and then we are surprised that in the world statistics we are the second to China in terms of air pollution mortality. However, there is no substantial source to escape from the infringement procedure, which is what is going on with Hungary. But we can go to Bonn, where there was a treaty in 1979 on the protection of migratory and wild species. At the moment, the Bonn objectives that we wanted to protect the stocks of species that affect many countries on the international route have not been taken forward, and for years there has not been a single penny to meet these goals. In 1984, a World Committee on Environment and Development was set up in order to be able to roughly appreciate the processes that take place in the world. The thoughts expressed by Minister Béla Turi-Kovács, my fellow Member, were formulated in the process of. 84 to 87, when the report of our joint future was published in 1987. [[14.30]] We can be proud that a Hungarian academic, István Láng, was actively involved in this work, and in 87 he predicted that the world's state was untenable and that no one had dealt with it, that no decision-maker had taken such steps either before or after the change of regime. .85, Montreal: an international agreement has been concluded to protect ozone from the sun's violet radiation. The first measures have been taken, the global cooperation has been cancelled, because virtually the large emitters did not want to join in. .86, Bern: An international agreement on the conservation of European wild species, species of animals and plant species and their natural habitats. At the moment, Hungary is endangering such protected areas. Here, next to Budapest, a CBA construction wants to destroy the same habitat right now, licensed by the current government, thinking that there will be no material damage. 1991, Espoo Convention on cross-border environmental damage. To date, we do nothing to this end, despite the fact that Ukraine is planning to install nuclear reactors that threaten the fertility of the soils of Hungary at the same time. In the same way, we are not doing anything to, for example, raise again and again in Croatia the possibility, for example, of new power plants being installed on one of our most beautiful rivers in connection with the water power plant previously designed at Novo Virje. And obviously, if we fail to fulfil these obligations, how can we expect anything else to happen? But there was a conference in Rio de Janeiro in 92 that was held at UN II. As its Conference on the Environment, for the next century in particular, it has defined the tasks that governments would have set out to do to ensure that the population, i.e. the global world, can remain, so that what my fellow Member spoke about, what Béla Turi-Kovács presented, is how to manage the allocation of resources in such a way that the future generations will have something to do with it. No real steps have been taken. , 92, Helsinki: Convention on the Reduction of the Off-border Effects of Industrial Accidents. This was concluded eight years before the cyanide disaster, and yet we have done nothing in those eight years to prevent such things. , 97, Kyoto: UN Convention in order to take the first steps to reduce CO2 emissions in practice in relation to global warming. Where are the results? The most important emitters: America, China, have remained away, and commitments to such small countries have been made in vain, and no meaningful progress has been made. The Aarhus Convention, which was established in 98, has given rise to social involvement and wider social participation in particular. At the moment in Hungary, there is no chance that civil society organisations will be involved in decisions on the sustainable use of natural resources, for example in forests, where there is a specific ban on the law and encrypts the use of resources that should be discussed here. 2000, Cartagena: basically the preventive climate protection efforts; 2002, Johannesburg, and so we go all the way to 2009, Copenhagen, and then 2012, Rio de Janeiro. Please take a very brief look at the international conventions that wanted to protect mankind in the world, and I ask you why, today, when we talked about the results of Paris in an elevated mood, there is no question that we have seen dozens of them and have no meaningful results. Because there is no result when we talk about something and try to do something different in everything we do. And obviously, this is the attitude that we can see with the decision-makers, that when we need to talk and have nice thoughts about environmental protection, nature protection, the protection of the world, we certainly do have nice words, but when the budget is needed, then in two weeks or three weeks or June, when we discuss the budget, how costs can be transferred for these purposes, when we will have to vote on how to take national steps in the national adaptation strategy of our fellow Member, János Bencsik, to have the resources to increase the country's capacity to adapt, but they will vote contrary to their decisions; just as they will vote contrary to how the Hungarian institutional system of environmental and nature protection should evolve and what resources can function. For all this, forgive me for this, very, very many pro-government contributions or votes do not mean that this can be credible. Because it's easy to talk about something, to say that we are creating strategies and adopting agreements, it's easy to do that, but if it's not coupled with doing something for it, then it's not worth anything. The May Other, in its political mission, basically thinks that the President of the Republic should represent the unity of the nation, so I do not want to be critical in any way with the head of state, but at the same time when he talked long about the responsibility of future generations and then talked about how Chinese renewable energy efforts are linked to wind energy and solar energy, I don't know if he thought about signing the efforts to encrypt and support the Paks pacts, which will be just as trash for future generations, which are now being irresponsiblely supported. Decisions that almost pass through the head of state from time to time are, in many cases, in fact, contrary to the objectives that the head of state today spoke very fascinatingly and for a long time. It is easy to identify in words with them, but when the government is going in a completely opposite direction at the level of legislation, at the level of the budget and at the level of resources, there is very much that cannot be accepted and there is no waiting for meaningful action to be taken. Similarly, on a daily basis, it arises that if we talk about what we will achieve, for example, in relation to quota trading, what we will achieve, if we maintain global emissions by possibly selling our own opportunities at the expense of our own industry, we will not contribute to these goods globally. In just one sentence, let me refer back to the thoughts of the head of state, as he called on the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Parliament, to support in any way the ratification obligations in this regard, to support its incorporation into Hungarian legislation, and to do everything possible to ensure that the interests of environmental protection and nature protection prevail. All of this, I feel, is completely unnecessary because some of us will do so on our own initiative, and certainly the Hungarian Parliament will do so soon, but as long as the Prime Minister speaks of the word "environmental protection and nature protection" from the lips of the Prime Minister, we do not hear him speak of sustainable development or global climate protection at any time, he does not call on the Members of Parliament who belong to his party if the direction of government is fundamentally different. I would ask my fellow members of the Government that, if they support the implementation of this legislation in Hungary and with their vote in the affirmative, they should also do so when we vote on budgetary amendments, even when it comes to deciding what the governance structure should be and whether there is a need for independent environmental protection in Hungary. Do so when they bring together the institutional system in government offices, which would have the task of having the Hungarian industry implement the provision of emission limit values that are not always possible at the moment. Obviously, if these are coupled with your decision, we can talk about your understanding at any level of what Paris was about. In the meantime, if I started by saying a quote from Albert Szent-Györgyi, then let me share one more thought with you from the book The Crazy Monkey. In the teaching of thermodynamics, one of the most basic disciplines is known for two qualities: there are added - additive - qualities, and there are some that cannot be summarized or added. The reader and I together are about twice as heavy as each other. The strength of our arms is additive in quality, but our body temperature is not. Your 36 degrees Celsius and my 36 degrees Celsius will never result in a temperature of 72 degrees Celsius, no matter how close we are, the two of us will remain at a temperature of 36 degrees Celsius. Unfortunately, stupidity is additive, reason is not. Nonsense likes crowds, reason makes its own way. Violence and roughness are not only additive, but tend to unite and be closely interlinked; they have powers that are far from in proportion to their true weight. If he's under government control, he can become scary. For well-meaning people, self-defense is the only way to work together. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I hope that these efforts, which have been formulated in Paris, will be carried out with a broad range of social cooperation, and will not merely be a normal political horseback, like the dozens of similar conventions that have been implemented in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-10-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to answer. [[On the sign of Zsolt Szabó:]] Mr. Secretary of State Szabo has the floor, please.
u2016-05-10-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is also apparent from the speeches that the climate issue is an active and important area and theme, and especially now that, after the signing in Paris and in New York, climate policy itself has become more and more involved in our daily thoughts, and this is a global climate policy that has become so high, we have no more proof than our fellow Member Sallai R. Benedek's comment. [[14.40]] It is true that with this agreement, we have made great progress, and it can be said that the world, the world's climate policy, will be given a new opportunity. We are at the forefront of this, because our economic productivity is increasing, employment in Hungary is increasing, while greenhouse gas emissions and CO2 emissions are constantly decreasing. I think it's exemplary, not many of them in the world. There have been a lot of concrete ideas that are not related to the draft legislation. I refer here to the fact that legal, economic, nature conservation, animal protection and plant protection issues have also been raised in the Member's comments, but in particular, a professional material has come up, a previous Greenpeace report, which was drawn up specifically in relation to air pollution in Hungary. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that air pollution and climate change are not the same, although there is a overlap between the two, we all know that, but air pollution is always a local issue and climate change is a specific topic for the world. What I would like to say in particular on this subject is the extent of the concentration of airborne particulate matter in Hungary, and this is compared to China, well, there is a slight slippage. There are measurement results that clearly show that the magnitude of the particulate matter in China may vary by up to 35 times in the air and up to 10 times in the size of 10 microns per cubic metre. It's all based on measurements from the University of Berkeley in America, so there's a little slippage in it, what the congressman said. In any case, the same perception of air pollution data in Hungary and Beijing is incorrect. I believe that both the President of the Republic and the Ministry of Development will certainly give positive guidance in the area of climate policy, and the aim is to achieve the greatest possible results in this area. An important point of this is to make a decision in the area which brings this issue to the legislative level in relation to the signing of the Paris Convention in New York. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in Europe 29 nuclear power plants are being planned and built at the moment, and in order to provide energy for the needs, I think that every country can decide for itself what kind of energy it is building its future on. Fact and truth, carbon-based energy sources, whether coal or oil sources, are coming to an end. And to allow me to conclude on this very positive subject with some positive ideas, I should be able to refer to the development of electric means of transport, with which the government has voted; to the development of electric cars, which is also a key government strategy; to support renewable energies in all applications, which is also a key government strategy, and to say nothing else, the Hungarian Government has taken on a higher renewable energy ratio than the numbers requested or expected by the European Union, as we have committed 14.65 per cent of energy in the area of renewal. In addition, our energy saving programme is under way, with all the positive elements that have been said here in Parliament several times over the past period, and a number of issues have been addressed in this way. To sum up: the legislation - which also ratifys, as I said, the Paris Convention, and we can do so among the first in Hungary - please support this House, and the sooner we adopt it, the more proud we can be to make an exemplary positive decision in the area of climate policy. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-10-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday, and I will inform you. Dear Parliament, The sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary and the joint general debate and conclusion of the bill submitted by Members Lajos Kósa, Gergely Gulyás, and Péter Harrach, István Simicskó, Imre Vejkey and György Rubovszky, on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the terrorist threat, will follow. The submissions were made in T/10416 and in T/10417. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to remind you that during the general debate, the opening speech of the author, the speech of the lead speakers and the speech of the first independent Member took place. There will now be further speeches by Members. We can hear Gábor Fodor's speech from an independent Member in the list of speakers that have been announced. Here you go.
u2016-05-10-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow the interested Members present to express my position on behalf of the Liberal Party, and I would like to begin immediately by reminding you of the previous debate. In the previous debate on the package presented by the Ministry of Interior, I explained our negative position, our non-voting, and I would like to remind you of the three main arguments that I said at the time. The first argument was that all such important issues, including the fight against terrorism, which is an important issue, are capable of creating a broader political consensus around it, because without party affiliation, it is important for all of us that the citizens living here, we ourselves, our loved ones, are safe and safe within the borders of their country. These important aspects are also an essential element for all political parties in such a debate, so this whole topic is suitable for a broad consensus around it. However, this consensus requires trust, the trust that many people here in this House have been talking about. This trust is important because we give powers, we ask for powers from the government; there is a presumption that it will abuse these powers or not, because it can abuse certain situations if it does not necessarily use this mandate in a benevolent way. I told you the last time, and I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, there is a specific negative example of this, from a few months ago, namely the so-called migrant threat, the declaration of the national crisis by the Ministry of the Interior. I asked the Minister of the Interior with a question, with a written question several times, to give the precise reason for the manner in which this declaration of crisis complied with the legislation voted by the majority of governments, so where is the settlement in Hungary today, where public health is in danger, where public order is threatened, and I have not yet received an answer. Obviously, there is no explanation for this, because if there were, we would know this either through the press or I would have received answers to my questions, i.e. the government has abused a mandate here. So with regard to the current package, and also with regard to the current decisions, I have to say that our suspicions are well founded, because there have been cases in the past, that the government has given one, precisely in relation to terrorism and the mandate to the refugee crisis, not as it should have been. So, argument number one for each such package, on our part, is that we do not have this confidence situation, precisely because of the misuse of opportunities and authorisation. [[14.50]] The second is that the Constitution itself does not require that another definition of crisis situations, a definition of exceptional situations, should be included in the Fundamental Law. I would like to discuss this in more detail, so that is the second reason why we are voting in favour of the non-voting package at the time and now. The third is the important risk that I said last time, and I would like to say it now, which should not be forgotten, and it should also be pointed out in this debate, which is a risk that international cooperation is always very important when it comes to combating terrorism. International cooperation is important because this is how we get information that can be used to act effectively against terrorism and terrorists. We know that today, unfortunately, Hungary, as a NATO Member State, because of its dubious Russian relations, presents a risk - many of them mention this in relation to Hungary - both in NATO and also in the case of European national security services, which does not allow for a clear, clear and clear exchange of information that could otherwise be effectively countered by terrorism. Until this is clarified by the government's policy, until it makes clear the content of dubious economic and political relations with Russia, it will not be able to act effectively against terrorism as part of an international or even European national security cooperation. So that's why this package that's in front of us isn't credible. But in addition to the fact that we are talking about these issues, which were before us the last time, a special topic of today is, among other things, the amendment of the basic law, which I have said here in relation to paragraph 2, that I would like to mention this in particular. Thus, our current position, which also rejects this case, is based, among other things, on the fact that we do not see reason why we should include a new case in the Fundamental Law in relation to exceptional situations or to the special legal order, the terrorist threat situation. This has already been discussed by several opposition fellow Members, who have been more careful, who have more decisively expressed their position. Several people here have asked questions about this in order to prove on the part of the government why this amendment to the basic law is justified. Well, I didn't see any evidence like that, I didn't hear it, and I don't see any convincing reasoning in any way as to why this sixth special legal order is necessary. We know well that the five special legal orders: the emergency state, the preventive defense situation, the unexpected attack, the state of emergency and the emergency, are currently defined in the Fundamental Law, so-called special legal orders. These are the special legal orders. Some of them also specifically name terrorism, including the state of emergency. This is a fictional special legal order used to combat terrorist acts, it is absolutely capable of dealing with the situations expected to occur in the future, we hope that this will never be necessary, but theoretically such situations may arise in the future, we hope, practically never, so these five extraordinary legal orders, which are fully capable of dealing with them, are special legal orders which are included in the Fundamental Law. As I have referred to before, the government has lived with them, as it has introduced them nationwide on the grounds of an emergency, it is true that it has not been able to justify it. This is where you lost the confidence that you needed to have confidence in the citizens and towards the parties. But with regard to the other legal systems, the question arises why, if these five special legal orders are in place, what is the reason for that, while there is one among them that explicitly names action against terrorism, then why should a sixth special legal order for a terrorist threat be created. Does it bother the government that these special legal orders in general require the Parliament to meet in a short time and order the introduction of that legal order by a two-thirds decision? But who would say that, of course, the Parliament is also prevented, let's say, from creating an extraordinary terrorist situation, it is defined here that the President of the Republic can act in these situations, and the President of the Republic himself can take action instead of the Parliament in certain situations, in certain unexpected situations. I hope the majority of the government is not disturbed by the fact that Parliament has to give two-thirds authority or is not disturbed by the fact that the President of the Republic can act on this matter. Because if these things bother you, these options, then I understand why you want to incorporate a new definition into the legal order, into the Fundamental Law, in which the President of the Republic does not otherwise have such special powers, and the mandate of the Parliament is also different from that of the five special legal orders that exist at the moment. I think they have a kind of legal basis and legal protection. We do not see the reason why we should give the government a mandate in such a situation to create a sixth special legal order unnecessarily by means of another constitutional amendment. I would stress once again that effective international cooperation, effective domestic action, is an essential element of action against terrorism. In our view, according to the liberal view, the current Hungarian legal order is in every respect suitable for the government to act, preventing all kinds of concerns and fears that arise as to whether the necessary legal instruments are available. They are available, as the previous examples have shown, so we see no reason to vote in favour of the proposal before us, because we think it is completely unnecessary. I think that there are political reasons behind what the government has put forward. Obviously, we know the political intentions. Maintaining the situation alone, maintaining the psychological situation that is trying to focus on the threat of terrorism, the threat to refugees in Hungary today, is capable of diverting attention from domestic political problems, and that is wrong, because this story is worth more than that, or, to say the least, its weight is more important than that, should not be played with fire. Unfortunately, there is a serious problem facing all of Europe and Hungary, which is degraded by simply using it for cheap, short-term political purposes. Therefore, on the part of the liberals, we cannot support either the amendment of the Constitution or the other legislative package. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-10-56	Thank you very much. Mr Miklós Simon, representative of Fidesz, is the next speaker. Here.
u2016-05-10-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels have proved that a new era has begun with regard to Europe's security. These events have refocused on security and the possibility of countering terrorist attacks. At the time, all European countries vowed to take the necessary steps to ensure the safety of their citizens. If we look at the events following the terrorist attacks, we can see that soldiers helped to carry out the tasks following terrorist acts. In this new situation, several European countries have taken the necessary legal measures to prepare for this new situation and guarantee the safety of their citizens. Thus, this proposal would not create a specific situation, because it was applicable in several European countries or the military force could be used to maintain public order if a terrorist act were to occur. Earlier in the debate, the parties presented in detail the reasons why and what amendments were included in the two proposals. In short, following the bill, the Fundamental Law would add a new special legal order, the terrorist situation. If necessary, the Hungarian Defence Forces could also be used to guarantee the security of the country. Until the Parliament decides to declare a terrorist situation, the government will introduce special measures, which will remain in force for a maximum of 15 days. [[15.00]] The opposition proposals were also taken into account here. During these 15 days, the government would be authorised to take the necessary extraordinary measures, which would give the government sufficient but not too much leeway to guarantee the safety of the Hungarian people in the event of a terrorist attack. It is important that the fundamental law be amended, because the special legal order conditions so far have not been specifically tailored to the migration situation of today. In terms of the nature of terrorist attacks, their intensity and course are completely different from those of the existing special legal order, because at the risk of an attack or in the event of an attack, the law enforcement forces must be applied suddenly, with high intensity, when all forces, including the use of soldiers, may be necessary. The Hungarian Defence Forces have special abilities that can effectively help counter-terrorist action, so it would be important to make these capabilities applicable. Unfortunately, the two terrorist attacks in Europe have shown that there is a close link between illegal immigration and terrorism. Following the terrorist attacks in Paris, another terrorist with a mass of migrants took action in Brussels. The Hungarian government has already seen the problem of not eliminating terrorists from the masses of illegal immigrants. Europe does not know who is allowed into its territory. It has now become clear that Salah Abdelslam has recruited more people from the masses of migrants at Keleti Railway Station, who at that time disturbed the peace of Budapest. Last autumn, the attacker in Brussels returned from Syria to Belgium through Hungary and helped prepare the suicide attacks in Paris. In the light of this information, it is clear that there is still a serious internal security and national security problem and that there is a link between illegal immigration involving acts of terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the aim of the proposal is to increase the country's ability to defend itself and to act effectively in the event of an attack or, more fortunately, to prevent it. In order to guarantee the security of the Hungarian people, it is important that all my fellow Members see that the security of our country is not a party political debate, but a responsibility. The opposition parties also have a responsibility to serve the security of our country. The Fidesz fraction supports the current proposal and I hope that it will receive the necessary support from you as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-10-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, who in this case, Mr Imre Vejkey, if he wishes to react, but he has already given me the answer by standing up and applying for a speech. Here you go.
u2016-05-10-59	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank the pro-government Members for their supporting speeches. In the absence of MSZP-leaders, both the lead speaker of Jobbik, Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the LMP, András Schiffer and the lead speaker of the independents, Ágnes Vadai, and Gábor Fodor, our independent colleague, can give the following answers in summary. One. In recent months, there have been several five-party discussions on the Sixth Amendment to the Fundamental Law, in which the MSZP has not participated at any time, and not at all in today's general parliamentary debate. And since I personally represented KDNP in the conciliation negotiations, I can say that they were indeed extremely constructive. We accepted opposition positions so much that we called the sixth amendment of the basic law among ourselves only called the so-called lex Schiffer. However, we were standing still, because unfortunately we did not receive a supportive response to the proposal for a specific bill. In the meantime, as a result of the terrorist acts in Western Europe and the simultaneous and related migration invasion, we considered it necessary to amend the special legal order cases of the Fundamental Law as a result of the T/10416. On the basis of a proposal under bill number T/10417, supplementing it with the provisions of the T/10417. Law No. 1. Time, ladies and gentlemen, is unfortunately working against us, because unfortunately the threat of terrorism is becoming more and more real. And we, as we are responsible for Hungary and for all Hungarians, must be prepared in case the terrorist threat occurs. Our specific constitutional position is that the existing special legal order cases of the Fundamental Law are not suitable for dealing with the threat of terrorism or for a rapid response, which is why they should be complemented by the terrorist threat. Let's look at the specific cases of special legal order: emergency status, state of emergency, preventive defense situation, unexpected attack and emergency situation. Let's look at the state of emergency first. The emergency situation is aimed at a classic war threat and a war situation. This would be excessive in the event of a terrorist attack and a terrorist threat. It's a state of emergency. A state of emergency is only suitable for the attack and only if it is mass-sized. At that time, the government's powers will be transferred to the President of the Republic, and the President of the Republic will be governed by a decree. It is clear that the situation is not suitable for a rapid response and would result in excessive exercise of law compared to the situation. Third, preventative defense situation. With regard to the preventive protection situation, the intensity of the crisis is exactly the opposite, since as long as the crisis starts from low intensity in the preventive protection situation and escalates over time, a rapid government reaction is more justified at the start of a terrorist attack. Furthermore, in the event of a preventive defence situation, a general commitment of war may be introduced on the basis of the Parliament's decision, which may cause greater concern in society, i.e. an excessive limitation of the law in this respect as well. [[15.10]] The fourth is the case of an unexpected attack. The unanticipated attack is intended to settle the unexpected break-in of external armed groups into Hungary, i.e. across borders, rather than what is in the event of a terrorist situation. Finally, it is an emergency: an emergency is intended to regulate the management of industrial and natural disasters, namely disaster protection. It therefore requires a different type of extraordinary action than a terrorist attack. Ladies and Gentlemen, I ask that, on the basis of all of this and the facts previously explained, the Sixth Amendment to the Fundamental Law is supported by T/10416 in order to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people. as set out in bill No. 10417 and bill No. 10417. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-05-10-60	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Representative of Jobbik Tibor Bana has applied for a post-meeting speech:, Let the opinion of the students also be expressed in the National Assembly. - Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. - Hear your voice. The results of your campaign. Episode 11. It's an address. Here.
u2016-05-10-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You lied about my youth. You promised me everything, you didn't do anything. There's no hope, there's no need for an engineering degree. An apartment for food? Did you at least try to make it good for us? * Imre, a recently graduated young person, is painting a sad picture, which is the Jobbik Youth Department. He arrived in the framework of his campaign, which unfortunately illustrates the situation of today's young generation. During our campaign, we have undertaken to engage in dialogue and real consultation with young people, to bring their views and suggestions on education or the situation of young people in general to the Parliament. I am pleased to report, ladies and gentlemen, that the visions of high school students and young people are constantly coming, which I would like to present to you as a kind of direction indicator that can guide you in reforming education. "Nothing about us without us," says the wise saying, which is a true statement today, and especially on the issue of education. In the spirit of this, allow me to present your voice. Our campaign is now the eleventh row of opinions. According to Noémi, there should be more exchange programmes so that young people have more opportunities to see the world, to navigate, to learn. Yes, it is a good idea, because it would allow students to gain international experience, and the desire for adventure that Prime Minister regularly talks about, bearing witness to his complete indiscretion, could actually be manifested here and in this way. Regarding the overload, Dorina's opinion says: "I think there's a very high number of hours required, and there's a lot of school material. There's a lot to learn that we're not gonna use anywhere in life. After school, you often have to study at home at night. - One of the most common opinions on congestion. In previous series, we have already suggested that something should be done about this. Tom's problem is with the student loan propaganda he said. He wrote: "Insufficient information, high interest rates, we feel we have to pay for the rest of our lives. Unfortunately, I myself have experienced these problems widely, which can easily drive young people into a debt spiral at the beginning of their lives. This is why Jobbik has previously called for a mandatory approach, not by increasing already high hours, but by reducing them in advance the introduction of an object aimed at acquiring basic economic knowledge in secondary schools. In fact, in order to acquire practical knowledge, Anti's insight is also linked to this:. The students must be brought up to life. More emphasis should be placed, for example, on techniques and lifestyles or on home and public knowledge. In addition, the foreign languages should be properly taught.--Máté, a young person starting the course, comes to mind: as a chemist, I mastered the tricks of chemistry, but for a tax return, I needed my mother's help. At my first job, they got me the way they wanted me to. More attention should be paid to learning everyday life, because today's young people are not able to live. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to introduce defence and self-defense classes to high school students. '"' writes Levente. I think that this should also be considered, because we too say that on a voluntary basis the possibility of enlistment should be guaranteed, because, although the obligation has been suspended, this does not mean that this is the case in the case of the defence obligation. So, in some way, if this is to be incorporated into the curriculum, we also believe that it is important, we need to find the best way to do this. Bence's opinion is this: in education there is no emphasis on Hungarian traditions and patriotic obligations. Most Hungarian youths do not know history and their own country. This needs to be changed. "I definitely agree with his opinion," adds Bence, adding. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Lexican knowledge instead of skills development, advanced IT knowledge. '"' writes Gergő. Yes, that is also a very important aspect. Judit's idea is to reduce the age limit for student work from 16 to 14 years. In response to the lectures of the past few months, Dawn wrote, "You should take care of educators with a different solution, because they violate the rights of students by taking away their right to study when they were in school and teachers weren't. I think that it is very appropriate that teachers and students have found different means of standing up, regardless of whether they have actually taken into account the interests of both teachers and students, a prudent and responsible reform, based on a professional basis, can only bring about effective changes. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the opportunity. That's all the time in the time frame. I continue to encourage young people to feel free to share their views with us on the Jobbikit.hu/Hallasdahangod page and to listen to their voices here in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-10-62	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good afternoon, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 15:16 p.m.]]
