u2016-04-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. The 14th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The leader of the LMP Group, Mr András Schiffer, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Developing Hungarian-Panama Relations." Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The biggest scandal in the past week's world politics has been the publication of so-called Panamanian papers in a Panamanian law firm, where forty years of crime have been discovered, and this scandal affects Hungary not only because it can be about 7,000 Hungarian-related companies; it is not just because Hungarian strings have been revealed. The importance of this is shown by the fact that only in the dependent areas of the Netherlands, such as the Andy Vajna, can be found in Curaçao, eighteen times as much wealth as the annual emissions of the Netherlands. Of the 100 largest companies in the United States, 99 operate offshore networks, and the richest people in the world reserve $21 billion in offshore paradise, which, for example, reaches Japan's annual emissions. There are four reasons why this scandal is of global significance to Hungary, including Europe. On the one hand, global offshoreisation distracts resources from welfare states. When we hear in Hungary or anywhere in Europe that there is no money for social, health and educational expenditure, we should always remember that this money is there, that someone has hidden it somewhere in tax havens. The offshore is pushing down the tax level, forcing so-called deregulation, which is good for only a few global corporations, and for those who hide their assets in offshore. The level of capital income taxes in welfare states is 30-35 percent, in these tax havens it is 1 percent. Thirdly, global offshoreisation makes international development policy impossible, stealing development money for the third world, and if these development money fails to reach its goal, we can expect an even greater migration crisis. Fourthly, these offshore havens also serve to launder sinful wealth. These tax havens are the cover stations and cover channels of globally institutionalized corruption. It is no coincidence that people connected to the big guns of world politics have been reported. The Russian President, like Hillary Clinton, or the offshore interests of people close to the British Prime Minister, David Cameron. At a time when big giants are trying to force decisions out of democratic governments or the European Union, let us not be surprised where an EU Commissioner or a Greek negotiator finds out about his secret bank account. Therefore, these tax havens also serve the purpose of removing the right of decision-making from democratically elected governments by various large capital interests. According to the Tax Justice Network survey, Hungary is among the 20 biggest losers of global offshore operations. Hungary has lost 242 billion dollars in offshore operations over the past decades; Hungary's government debt has migrated 2.5 times from the Hungarian national economy to offshore havens in 25 years. From Bokros to Orbán, austerity packages would not have been necessary if these incomes had remained in Hungary. In 2014, 113 percent of the health budget went to offshore tomatoes from Hungary. And it is not only that it has been discovered that a caviar-left party banker is peddling Samoan's modest income; it is not only that a Fidesz button-printer is parking money in the Seychelles. It is an integral part of today's government policy to use offshore knights for government purposes. [[13.10]] I base it on the fact that there is now a bill before this House on how to facilitate the settlement bond business, behind the settlement bond business there are offshore companies, according to the article of the Weekly Reply, the figure of Árpád Habony has already been raised behind it; there is Minister of Ministers Andy Vajna with various offshore interests, and there is the MET group linked to Garancsi, also with offshore interests. Dear Parliament, As this scandal continues, it is becoming clear that in more and more countries around the world, offshore knights and offshore coalitions will not be tolerated on government. So far, the LMP has submitted three proposals for brushing off the offshore knights, and you've said no three times. In 2018, we will see how long Hungary will tolerate offshore knights ruling it. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-2	I give the floor to Minister Antal Rogán.
u2016-04-11-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin by saying to Mr. Schiffer that I think that this government was the first to introduce and enforce the regulation that, by the way, only companies that are allowed to run in Hungarian public procurement [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: It's not true!]] which reveal their ownership background up to and including the final beneficiary. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, during the governance of the socialists sitting in the opposition and often cooperating with you, such a rule was not in place at all. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You cooperate!]] Maybe it wasn't a coincidence. I would also like to point out to you, Mr Group Leader, that the Hungarian Government is committed to imposing a strict, thorough and inclusive tax investigation on all Hungarian names coming to the surface in the so-called Panamanian offshore case. The Government has asked the Minister of National Economy to do so, the Minister has powers in this regard, and we expect this to happen in this form. I would also like to tell you that the government has included the Panamanian offshore case as a subject even at a national security cabinet meeting today, and we would like to gather all the information that can be collected through the exchange of international relations and, as appropriate, take the necessary steps by the Hungarian authorities. I think that this question is particularly important because, if you think about it, there is also a former party party and currently a serious opposition party's banker involved in the case, who seems to have maintained not only offshore companies, but also operated foreign accounts, interestingly like another party's former vice-president of MSZP, which, in the case of a major opposition party, and in the former ruling party, is certainly thought to have been the party's cashier, to whom the party's president said - which, as I understand, the News said on TV - still counts in ordering its finances [[Sándor Burány: About settlement bonds if we could hear a few words!]] On the one hand, the gentleman in question is an active offshore operator, and on the other hand he maintains serious foreign accounts, just like the former vice-president of the MSZP, who we still do not know exactly what kind of money he has managed in a hundred million-percented foreign accounts. I would also like to point out that the ability of the Hungarian government and law enforcement agencies to detect in this area does not always meet with the full help of foreign authorities, because, for example, in the case of Gábor Simon, we have not yet been able to obtain, in part, information from the Austrian authorities and partly from the Swiss authorities on how the ominous accounts came into being, what money came into place, and exactly what he said when he opened these accounts. I would also like to point out to you that this is why the Hungarian Government and the National Security Cabinet have dealt with the issue separately; it is particularly shocking that during the MSZP-SZDSZ government, the head of one of the most important banks of the government, the MFB, is therefore actively involved in the offshore scandal in Panama, and it is questionable to us whether this relates to the MFB's economic transactions. Therefore, the government has ordered an active investigation, and we are willing to involve Parliament in this, and, if you think so, we would keep Parliament's Economic Committee or its corresponding subcommittee informed of the information that we have received during the review of the MFB files. [[Sándor Burány: About settlement bonds!]] or, in the course of any international exchange, what information has been obtained. I think that these are absolutely necessary, because if the Panamanian affairs have caused serious storms throughout the international world, then I think that the Hungarian strands of these must be fully explored, and all questions must be answered by the authorities, Parliament and the public. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-4	The Head of the MSZP Group, Mr József Tóbias, also applied for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-5	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the announcement made by the government and the subsequent law clearly justify the victory of the people in Hungary. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Social will won, participatory democracy won, and the Hungarian Socialist Party won. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It took a year and a half to fight, and a man's struggle, István Nyakó, who - against all the administrative burdens [[Interviews from the ranks of the age groups, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: Nyakót the head of the MSZP!]] and physical violence - he tried to prevent what Hungarian society has the right and responsibility to do: to give an opinion on your policy. [[13.20]] You, on the other hand, are frightened, capitulated, and this capitulation is nothing more than giving up your position in principle. Why else? Just to keep the power. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Cowards!]] For a year and a half you know that you have intervened directly in the everyday life of Hungarian families. They didn't do anything! You knew precisely from every social survey of the last year and a half that the vast majority of society would not accept what you are offering them, but did nothing. What, then, was the reason why they quickly changed their minds from Friday to Monday? Minister Lázár proposed the inclusion, the campaign on Friday, Prime Minister would like to think about it, and then Mr Minister submitted the proposal an hour ago. This law is no different than the self-acclaiming confession itself. A year and a half ago, they knew exactly what they were supposed to do, but they didn't do anything. That's why it's stated that the will of society has brought you to your knees in this matter. But we cannot stop here because it is a real referendum, honourable Members. You are afraid to defend your position before the Hungarian people. We must force you to deal with the everyday problems of the Hungarian people. Do not attempt to cement their own power with legislation, but to deal with health, to deal with the hopeless situation of education. I want you to deal with these. If privileged people are given the lands of the Hungarian state, if they raise their own salaries, when will they deal with the salaries of people living in extreme poverty? You don't run that way anymore? That is why a real referendum must be held in Hungary. You have to hit the iron, say the people while it's hot. We have a situation here, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that this testimony, which has legal power here and I would like to discuss it in an exceptional, urgent procedure, does not cover one thing: the investigation and the people responsible. You can argue in this room, Minister. Answer me who they were before NVI on February 23rd. Who gave them permission to go there? Who asked Erdősine to copy 30 submissions and put those bald people in line to prevent a man from exercising his own right? Neither the D.A.'s office, nor the police, nor the N.T.A., nor the N.T.A.B. have yet to respond to these. This burden and this stigma are on you. Today you think you want to prevent voters from exercising their rights. I'd like to ask you, Minister, when will the government launch an investigation into this matter. What do you intend to do to name those responsible by their name? That's the real question. We can agree on one thing today: if there is a social will, you can be replaced, and you will be replaced by the people. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-6	Once again, Minister Antal Rogán has the floor.
u2016-04-11-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, I also think that it is always very important for a governing party to be aware that it has been given the mandate of the people to govern together with the people, and that is why analyses and opinions are always important, but the most important thing is how people ultimately think on a question. I would recommend this to you, as a former pro-government Member, because you were in the government, honourable Member, and let us see how important the opinion of the people was to you at that time. I would like to remind you that there was a referendum in Hungary in 2004 and 2008. When the signatures were gathered, you would have had the opportunity, without further ado, to consider the opinions of the people on all these matters, honourable Member, but you were not in your right mind to consider the opinions of the people. I would also like to remind you, honourable Member, that in two referendums in 2004, people voted, in particular, that 3 million people had gone, and that they had clearly voted against you on the issue of healthcare services institutions, and that they also clearly voted against you on the issue of Hungarian citizenship and dual citizenship, as the majority of the votes were given. Yet you have not complied with the people's request. The regulation on dual citizenship was not adopted, and even, honourable Member, after the next election, they had the opportunity to re-scratch healthcare. They were able to apply for rounds and tuition. Even then, they would have had the opportunity to consider what people would think of this measure. A year after it was introduced, they could have considered whether it was worth maintaining or not. Was the opinion of the people important to you then, honourable Member? People's opinions weren't important. I think, Mr Group Leader, the fact is that you have always been more important than the real opinion of the people. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] This will, of course, be revealed in today's vote, Mr Group Leader. To be honest, I think that the bill tabled by the government will also satisfy everything that you have submitted for a referendum. The Government was therefore willing and did so to consider, one year after the introduction of the measure, whether the law adopted by Parliament to propose individual representatives had fulfilled all its objectives. Let us be honest here, Mr Group Leader, that what you have said about this law and its expected economic impact has all turned out to be a lie. Because you said, Mr. Group Leader, that this would result in unemployment in the retail sector. Turns out that's not true. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Today there are 3,000 more people working there than at the beginning of 2015.
u2016-04-11-8	I find annoyance justified in the lines of the MSZP fraction, but not the yelling.
u2016-04-11-9	And you said that there would be a drop in turnover in the retail sector, that then economic growth would decrease. Compared to this, the turnover of the retail sector increased by 5.6 percent in 2015 above the average economic growth rate, which continued to increase in January and February this year. Let us also be honest with you, Mr Group Leader, you said this at the time because you represented the interests of the multinationals against Hungarian businesses. [[Noise and clarity in the ranks of the MSZP. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] They do this every time, so there's nothing very unusual about it. And let's be honest, the government measures taken in the last year have increased the share of Hungarian businesses. Here, however, we must be self-critical and say that unfortunately not enough. Mr President, we, on the other hand, should be able to see - and we are able to do so - that we have failed to convince people over the last year that this measure is the same as their way of life, their purpose in life. In particular, it seems that we have failed to convince women within the family, and women's opinions have always been important to us. Mr Group Leader, we are able to consider, after a year, what people think of a decision made by a government. For this reason, the government, weighing all aspects together, made the proposal to Parliament that all Members of Parliament should ask that the measure concerning the prohibition of Sunday work be fully withdrawn by the Parliament after one year, and that the state of 14 March 2015 be restored. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. It's a short break. Zoltán Lu-kács: What's up?]]
u2016-04-11-10	What? I'm waiting for silence in the MSZP faction. I'm waiting for them to yell at you. If you have anything else to say, we'll take a break, feel free to tell us, and then we can move on. [[Zoltán Lukács: What's wrong?]] Congressman, you are unable, you are simply unfit to remain silent for five minutes. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Lukács: We can't be the same!]] Thank God! [[Zoltán Lukács: Some are normal, some are stupid.]] Can we move on? Or would you like to yell a little more? [[Zoltán Lukács: You may proceed, Mr President. You can move on. A brief break The president turns to the notary on his left.]] [[13.30]] Member of the Jobbik Group Mr.Sebestyén Vágó, member of the Jobbik Group, asked for a pre-meeting address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I joined Parliament in 2010 as a social specialist, so I am particularly sensitive to the devastation of social policy during the six-year anniversary of the government, during the six-year anniversary of the third Orbán government, and I am sensitive to the negative changes in social processes that have taken place during this period. It is enough to consider the enormous poverty and the continuation of mass emigration. But let us look at the destruction that has been done in the area of social policy; just to mention a few. We know very well that the disability pension system was a problem. We know very well what kind of difficles were in the system. But I think that by eliminating the system as a lawnmower principle, and instead the law on people with disabilities came into force, there was a terrible devastation, and a lot of people were in a state without care, and a lot of people had a reduction in their care. This puts them in an almost insufferable position. Or let us look at the negative processes that have started and continued in the area of social benefits during this period. The relief system has been transformed, putting an enormous burden on the municipalities, and many have been unduly excluded from the benefits. In addition, of course, we can see what many voters expected from a Christian-citizen party, too, that the system will cease to exist so that very many people can live illegally or unjustly on the social care system. Nothing's changed on this front in the last six years. Or let us look at what has been done with the elderly, with the care of the elderly at home: how many will fall out of the system, how many will need not this milder form of care, but perhaps professional care, whether health or social care. Or let us look at the devastation that has been done within the sector itself: it is enough to mention the wage situation. You can talk about the allowances, the bonus is basically a bad solution, because the bonus was given one day by a decree by the government, but the next day you can take it away with another regulation, a pen stroke. So it makes the position of the workers in the sphere uncertain. Let's not talk about what kind of bonus scheme they've created, what kind of table they've managed to create, which has no logic in it. I see only one logic in it: saving. Even on this, the government wants to save money, and next to it we can see how irresponsible and wasteful budgets it brings and what billions of dollars go to. Let's look at the pay situation. Like I said, they're in a catastrophic state, or they're in a position to work in the sphere. It is enough to look at the comparison that they are 38 percent behind compared to poorly paid education and 23 percent behind on health care, which is also not well paid. They have been being bullied for years, promising them the introduction of a social career model for years. The sphere, the sector, is more concentrated in the burden of emigration. It's almost impossible to find people, find unfulfilled statuses, and encounter almost insatiable tasks, wherever we are in the country. It causes wage tension between different sectors of the public sector. It is no wonder that both education and health care are constantly draining human resources from the social sector. The system is slowly becoming unsustainable. And if the government and Minister Balog have seen that they have pushed over that particular bicycle, they should also be able to see in the area of social policy that they have pushed that bike too far. What do I mean? DG Social and Child Protection is dealing with the same problems, the same problems, only in Pepita, as KLIK. They also have lightbulb problems, as well as motor vehicle service problems, and I could tell you more. There is not a chalk problem, but another problem, which makes care work, processes, and professional work questionable, unsuitable and unfeasible. That is why I am asking you whether you have not considered whether, as you have reviewed the operation of the KLIK, the operation of the SZGYF should also be reviewed, and not put a new burden on the employees of the sector and the sector, but should solve the problem and create a viable, sustainable system. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Interpretings at the same place: That's right!]]
u2016-04-11-12	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-11-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This government made it clear at the beginning of its cycle in 2010 that it wants to help people who are in need, who suffer deprivation, that it is trying to give them jobs, jobs, employment, decent wages and not overtaxed salaries, but to pay as little as possible. That's how he reduced personal income tax. Unfortunately, Jobbik did not vote in favour of these tax reductions, and even for those who, let's say, raise three children, essentially their gross and net wages coincide. This is why one of the causes of poverty has been successfully addressed, since, on the basis of sociological research before 2010, there have been two reasons for poverty - as a constant trend for two decades - for being born into a poor family or for having many siblings. With regard to the latter - the one who has a difficult financial situation, the one whose parents have many children starts with a disadvantage in life - I think that the introduction of family-type taxation is an important and morally acceptable countermeasure for everyone. With this, we hope that the 1100 billion forints that we left with the families that raised the child also helped to keep families struggling with difficulties out of the ranks of struggling families. But it was also an important decision of the government to continue raising wages. The government has relatively little potential for this. It can intervene on two sides besides job creation: one is the rate of taxes, this has been reduced by the government, the other is the minimum wage. Honourable Congressman, You know, you don't really find another country within the European Union or within the OECD where the minimum wage would have increased as much as in Hungary. The minimum wage was 73 500 forints at the beginning of our government, and now it has increased to 111,000 forints. This 51-percent, under six-year-old rise, I think, is unprecedented. You will not be able to find another OECD or EU country where the minimum wage would have been so high. Such a large increase of the minimum wage by one and a half times pushes all the other wages ahead of him, which is why he makes his future much more predictable and predictable for those whose wages also increase with the minimum wage in the above bands than for individual employers. Mr President, Mr President, you have listed a number of measures from the government's activities over the past period. I find it odd that you do not consider the sectoral wage supplement or the wage supplement to be a good measure. In addition, we have said that until the social career is introduced, this supplement is guaranteed to all workers in all sectors. Believe me, these ten thousand forints are very important to those who work in this sphere. The reformation of the relief system was designed to eliminate exactly the abuse you have said. A completely clear and transparent system has been established. In the walks you can apply for a kind of support, these are income supplements. If you don't have a salary, that's where you get your income support. The other part, which he receives from the local authorities, is expenditure compensatory subsidies. To cover these, the budget gave HUF 30 billion, so it is not for the municipalities to manage it, but we provided HUF 30 billion for this purpose separately. We also provided an additional HUF 5 billion to municipalities, which are otherwise in difficulty to cover the settlement aid. It was a clean, transparent system that eliminates abuses and involves additional resources, with a total of HUF 30 plus HUF 5 billion. With regard to home care, Congressman, you said it was a mistake to split you up; and we think it is right. After all, in earlier times a qualified nurse with a social education was asked to have a social worker clean the aquarium to give up the lottery ticket to take the puppy for a walk. You think that was a good system? We said that we should split the matter up: there should be different social services that can be done without qualifications, and that should, of course, be at an elevated level, which is done by qualified nurses, social workers, and that really helps older people who need social care. I think that also made the system clearer. [[13.40]] And as far as the issue of wage increases is concerned, honourable Member, we tried to give as much of the extra income generated by the Hungarian reforms as possible to those working in the social sphere after 2013, which is why the wage increase in January 2014 was 5-11 percent, with a total value of HUF 12 billion. This was the case to whom it meant 6,000 forints, who meant 17,000 forints, 73,000 for workers and 20,000 for technical workers. This was continued in 2015 with the additional sectoral wage supplement, which is HUF 15.5 billion per year plus. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-14	Now, Mr.Péter Harrach, leader of the KDNP's group, will take the lead on the title "The Enforcement of Citizen's Rights." Here you go.
u2016-04-11-15	Mr President, Dear House, Several issues that affected human rights or civil rights have been on the agenda in the last week. I would like to briefly mention two of these. Of course, among them is what many words have already been said today, including on free Sunday, but at first perhaps some sentences about the enlargement of the Constitution. We know that there is also a special legal order in the Constitution, which is being implemented in five cases, and now there is a situation, precisely as a result of terrorist attacks, which has not been the case before, so there is a need for another indication. However, in this situation, human rights must be somewhat contained. That's exactly what's cause for debate. But the question is, when different rights conflict, which one has more power. Obviously, in this case, the threat to society as a whole is more important than holding back certain rights, freedom of transport or anything. Perhaps I could give you an example that seems like an Esopusian analogy: when lambs have the right to graze in the meadow, but the wolf comes, they are obviously forced into the pen. If someone says I want to exercise my right in the field, it's bad for them. Well, it may be a simple metaphor, but I think it's true in this case. [[Complaining from the side of MSZP: What a nice metaphor!]] So when there has been some sign that Parliament will have a kind of unity in order to expand the constitution, we must welcome this opportunity and do so, in the interests of society as a whole. And the other question we've already discussed is Sunday off. In this regard, since the original idea was ours, if not the way to achieve it, I must say that the Christian Democrats [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Aren't you in the same government?]] they understand the aspects of the government, they accept its decision, but they continue to maintain their opinion, which is the result of a value-based politicalization, and we stand by the 200 000 workers who, if this is done, will be forced to work on Sundays instead of being at home with their families. For some, that's not the point. I am shocked that trade unions throughout Europe represent the idea of a free Sunday, even MSZOSZ signed the free Sunday in Hungary at the time, and when it came to this, they stopped because of socialist political pressure. I ask: who represents the interests of workers in Hungary today? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, the KDNP!]] And who represents the interests of multinational companies in Hungary today, who have already taken more money out of the country, and then maybe they will again? What was our starting point when this thought was born? By representing these workers' rights, under the existing law, because in the Labour Code we provide people with a common day of rest, Sunday. Of course, there are exceptions. But these exceptions have increased over time to such an extent that employment has practically become a general rule. We continue to represent the value of free Sundays for workers, and at any time it will be possible to do so, we will be there for them. If there is a vote in Parliament on this, we will, of course, not be on the side of employers, but on the side of workers, and we will not vote for the restriction of their freedom. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-16	Once again, Minister Antal Rogán has the floor.
u2016-04-11-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, He also mentioned two very important issues in his speech, and I would like to confirm that the other issue was also dealt with by the Government meeting today with possible compromises and the government's position. I would like to tell you that, for our part, we believe that we should not underestimate the extent of the threat of terrorism in Europe, and because Europe is part of Hungary, too. And I would like to ask the honourable opposition parties not to underestimate this. There are some opposition party presidents among you who said a few months ago that dog dirt is a greater threat in Hungary than terrorists. This is the same underestimation of the specific risk of terrorist threats as, by the way, many statements in the previous year on immigration, uncontrolled immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, It was precisely the uncontrolled immigration, the one and a half million immigrants who had entered Europe illegally across borders without virtually any control, who significantly increased the threat of terrorism and the threat of terrorism. We all know that. You should also see, ladies and gentlemen, that today the Hungarian government, Hungarian law enforcement agencies, has fewer tools than Western European governments and Western European law enforcement agencies in the fight against terrorism. It follows, ladies and gentlemen, that when the Government consults with you and consults with the parliamentary factions and requests the adoption of an anti-terrorist action plan and the amendment of the Constitution, we simply ask that the same instrument be available to Hungarian law enforcement agencies as there is in Western Europe. No more, no less, fellow Members. Therefore, we would like to ask you for a responsible consideration, in particular, that, in the event of a terrorist threat, the announcement of an extraordinary situation, I think that if governments in Western Europe can decide, then this should also be given in Hungary. If the army can be used in the fight against terrorism in Western Europe, I believe that this possibility should also be allowed for the defence in Hungary, my fellow Members, and that if it is decided in normal order there, then I must say to you that there is no justification for the four fifth majority in Hungary either, because terrorists do not decide on human lives by four fifths. In the same way, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the Government is ready to ensure that the appropriate parliamentary and republican presidential control is maintained in all things, just as it is in Western Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, We would like to ask you for a responsible attitude, from all the factions, from both the pro-government and the opposition groups. As far as the other part of Mr Group leader's statement is concerned, I can say, Mr Group Leader, that, of course, it is the government, but I also think that the majority of the members of the Government agree that everyone in Hungary should be given the opportunity not to oblige any employee to work on Sundays in Hungary. Let us be honest, this has been achieved in a sector of the economy over the last year. However, we must also see, honourable Member, that, indeed, as you have said, those who, in principle, should have fought for this, should have fought for their own initiative, after all, this is a left-wing value, and that interest representatives should also be fighting against it, which we have not seen in any form in the last year. And I think, in the absence of left-wing parties, it is very difficult to fight for left-wing values. If they don't want it, I think we need to think about it. If trade unions refuse to fight for the interests of workers, I think that we should also think about this. And, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Group leader, I thank you very much for your insight in the way you see it, a year after the introduction of the ban on working on Sunday, the Government of Hungary must really consider not only what economic interests think of this measure, not only what results we have achieved, but also what people think about this issue. [[13.50]] That is why we have proposed the withdrawal of the relevant legislation, and I continue to ask for Parliament's support for this. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-11-18	Dear House, Last up for speeches before the agenda will be Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of Group of the Fidesz Group, with a title on current issues. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-19	Mr. President. Dear House, The particular situation in Hungary and the Hungarian Parliament has emerged that the socialists have been spectacularly withdrawn from one of the oldest issues of protection of interests raised in modern industrial society, because since the regulation on the banning of Sunday work has come up, they have consistently gone against it; ignoring it otherwise. [[István Tukacs: And three quarters of the country!]] that since the 1840s, the left-wing movements were, at birth, an elemental demand for eight hours of work and the ban on Sunday work, as were the Christian social movements that came into existence at the time. But nothing matters to the socialists. [[István Tukacs: And three quarters of the land!]] Just how to contradict the government at any cost is not common sense in the circumstances to be considered, and how to support multinationals. They pay attention to what the multinationals are saying, who are otherwise unfavourable to the event concerning the ban on working on Sundays [[Sándor Burány: Are you in favour of the bill or not?]] The socialists immediately sided with them. As with the bankers, as with all the other laws, they found the sweet acolyte hug of the multinationals. I'm ignoring the basic demands of 200,000 commercial workers so they can't be forced to work on Sundays. [[Dr. András Schiffer: How will you vote?]] ignoring the fact that they have been told countless times, multinational companies do not simply force them to work, but they are adversely affected by working conditions, conditions of payment, working rules. [[Zoltán Lukács: Since you redecorated the labor code!]] Of course, it didn't matter to the socialists, because the call from the multinationals is sacred and inviolable to them. The absurd situation has also emerged in this regard that the whole of the Hungarian trade unions has not heard their voices, except for the autonomous trade union of trade workers, which is unfortunately the smallest trade union among trade workers. [[Zoltán Lukács: There is no such union!]] Two other trade unions, much bigger than this, didn't bother to protect their own employees. [[Zoltán Lukács: There is no union like that!]] 'Cause they had other priorities, money coming from somewhere else, and political direction coming from somewhere else. It was therefore the case that Fidesz supported the demand for the oldest left-wing and Christian social work, and a right-wing conservative government, if you like, heard people's voices about why workers could be forced to work on Sundays in trade, in unfair circumstances. This is why, among other things, the legislation that did not ignore the closing of the store by accident, but that was precisely, with a good focus, about the prohibition of working on Sundays. Nor should we be silent about the fact that this measure has, by the way, fully fulfilled the economic policy objectives attached to it. None of the predictions of the socialists have proved to be real; of course, this is not surprising, because it never proves to be true. The socialists claimed that there would be a mass layoff in trade. Compared to this, trade employment has increased. The socialists claimed that there would be a decline in retail trade. Compared to this, retail sales have increased by far compared to GDP or real income growth. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Then why delete it if you are so sure of yourselves?]] Of course, it has also proved true that other connecting sectors have also started to grow, especially catering and trade. But for the socialists, compared to a multi-interested one, it doesn't matter. Interest of Hungarian retailers [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Why take it back?]] The 200,000 people who are, by the way, commercial employees and employed, they all don't matter. One thing is undoubtedly true: Fidesz has not been able to support this positive action for the vast majority of people [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You failed!]] And after listening to the people's words, the Fidesz fraction will therefore support the government's presentation. Of course, we will not give up our struggle to stand by the people, and we will immediately enter into negotiations with trade workers if trade unions have let them down on how to make their work easier. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2016-04-11-20	Once again, Minister Antal Rogán has the floor.
u2016-04-11-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, today we have assessed a year since Sunday's ban on working in many ways. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to add another aspect to what the Group leader has said to the Honourable Parliament, especially because I believe that we have already touched on this issue in a different way today. Of course, a person should always consider the possibility of a referendum on a question, how well it is worth fighting that debate, and how it is worth considering the issues related to it, so that he can determine the country's life for a long time, even in the coming months. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that, of course, the ban on working on Sunday is a matter of principle in many ways, although for a good part of the Hungarian electorate, it is clearly a matter of lifestyle. But the government believes that today Hungary is facing a clear challenge, which we should be able to decide together in as much unity as possible and as many as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent weeks, the European Union Commission in Brussels has made public its proposal on the basis of which the European Union intends to regulate immigration and asylum issues, practically the new Dublin concept. However, the two published concepts clearly have a very important common essence, the institution of forced resettlement. Ladies and gentlemen, Brussels has not given up on the fact that in the coming months one and a half million illegally invaded people who have arrived in Europe will be distributed to the Member States of the European Union through forced resettlement. Brussels also did not stop bringing 250-500 thousand people in to Europe on an annual basis and, similarly, deploying them among the Member States of the European Union in the context of forced resettlement on the basis of the criteria taken by Brussels. We believe that this is also a serious violation of Hungarian national sovereignty, which is a very important issue for us, because it will be decided here in the coming months who future generations in Hungary will live with, in which country our children and grandchildren will live. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the Hungarian Government considers the decision on this issue to be more important than anything else in a referendum. We know very well, I think that the political debates over the last few months have shown that there are some of our opposition fellow Members whose questions in the referendum are, in fact, simply forging political capital. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that no responsible government should allow for this matter, that on an important issue such as the case of forced resettlement and the issue of Hungarian national sovereignty, whatever the Hungarian electorate is concerned with will be shared. This was also an important aspect when, after the last one year, the government considered whether a referendum should take place on this issue or, if not, what decision should be taken to prohibit Sunday work. So once again, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all very much for your attention and I would like to encourage you to support the Government's proposal here in Parliament, both now during the exceptionally urgent procedure and tomorrow's decision on the law in as many as possible. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-11-22	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I call on notary Nándor Gúr to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-04-11-23	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Szilárd István Németh, Fidesz; Zsuzsanna Szelényi independent; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Loránné Hegedűs, Jobbik; Bernadett Szél, LMP and István Ikotity Szl, LMP. [[14.00]] On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward to address the agenda: István Tukacs, MSZP; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; István Németh, Fidesz Németh. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Péter Csizi, Fidesz. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: President Novak, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik.
u2016-04-11-24	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. I declare that the resolution house rule is 22. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the author requested CLIX of 2012 on postal services. T/9785. Further discussion of bill No 1. The general debate on this proposal is part of the agenda for our meeting starting today. Dear House, The Government has initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/10171 on the amendment of certain laws relating to Sunday work in the retail sector. and the draft agenda for the Parliament meeting starting today should be added to the discussion of the proposal. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour following the decision on the exceptional procedure today, the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear House, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, i.e. one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. Dear House, Now it's time for decision-making. I ask you if T/10171 will be accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House accepted the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 162 votes in favour, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5 p.m. today. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place on tomorrow's meeting as the first item on the agenda, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place between tomorrow's decisions. Dear House, The Fidesz Group proposed that decisions be taken on 12 April at the earliest from 12:30 a.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. According to the proposal put forward by the President, the Parliament is entitled B/9675 on the work of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and on the general situation of Hungarian science for the years 2013-2014. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Committee of Culture will be invited by B/9675. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the proposal was adopted by the House by 116 votes in favour, 48 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, According to the proposal put forward by the President, the National Assembly reports on the activities of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in 2015 B/8388. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Judicial Committee will be invited by B/8388. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The proposal was adopted by 117 votes to 49, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a personal proposal, we do not decide today. Now, at 2:06 p.m., we're going to proceed to the discussion of interpellations, immediate questions. I would like to inform you that, as the Speaker of Parliament, the House Rules of Decision 121. Mr Lajos Oláh K/9788. I have rejected your written question to the Minister of Human Resources because the motion does not fall within the minister's remit. Dear House, Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Can we fail to complete the debt reduction? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-04-11-25	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to Eurostat, the EU statistical office, Eximbank is a so-called captive financial institution, which seems to be self-contained but practically part of the state and thus part of the public finances, and it is therefore formally proposed to the HCSO that Eximbank be classified within the general government circle. In the case of such institutions, the government must bear the consequences of any inappropriate performance of the undertaking. In recent months, the bank has allocated at least HUF 41 billion to businesses close to the government, because Eximbank's activities were changed by a bill at the end of 2013, so domestic companies can also receive loans to improve their international competitiveness. In fact, however, the only thing that happened was that they had created a number of paying places to pour the public money into the pockets of their buddies, uncontrolled and uncounted. We could tell you a lot about the Orbán government, except that it would be inhibited. For example, in recent months, a company belonging to the interest of István Garancsi obtained an Eximbank loan to purchase the Kopasi dam. Another company won a bid for a HUF 16 billion capital fund, the CEO's wife is Antal Rogán's ex-wife. Andy Vajna received nearly HUF 7 billion credit for the purchase of TV2, supporting the scandalous operation with public money. They did all this in the hope that Eurostat would not notice this trick. They're wrong, they're busted. From the point of view of public debt, this means that on the basis of the latest available balance sheet, the external resources of HUF 572 billion would increase the debt ratio by almost 2 percent in proportion to GDP. For example, in 2014, the state's debt did not decrease at all. Even though you've been playing tricks, you're afraid you'll lose the fight against public debt. Dear Secretary of State, In this situation, the transparent tricks and unbridled greed of the Orbán government put the country on the ground. So I ask you, when do they stop tricking, when do they stop greed? What do you intend to do if you fail this fight as well? I look forward to your reply.
u2016-04-11-26	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to state that Magyar Export-Import Bank Zrt. Its effectiveness is outstanding in the last year, 2015 as well. In the last year, he paid 397 billion forints, which is 38 percent more than the year before. [[14.10]] About HUF 421 billion of exports have been increased from lending. This generated more than HUF 120 billion in tax revenues for the state budget and contributed HUF 355 billion to GDP. The special situation of Eximbank is created by the independent legal status law, which is linked to the 2013 CCXXXVII on credit institutions and financial undertakings. Law. As far as your professional question is concerned, the following answer can be given. There is indeed a technical dispute between the Central Statistical Office and Eurostat's professional position on accounting. This is a very interesting issue, since the new ESA financial corporate sector accounting system was established in 2010, for which the accounting rules for these banks were not uniformly regulated. Now, Eurostat wants to settle this settlement option with individual countries with specific agreements. This is not Hungary's problem, however, but Eurostat deals with many other countries in the European Union regarding its professional position. As far as the Hungarian position is concerned, we consider Eurostat's position to be wrong and wrong, and in fact, it does not know the real activities of the Hungarian Eximbank. As far as your individual lending is concerned, I would like to state that Eurostat has not examined any specific issues about Eximbank and has not drawn up a resolution on it. Eximbank did not object to its operation in any way, so the loan placements described here can essentially be considered a political attack, a political lounge from your mouth. Honourable Congressman, It is also wrong that if the results and activities of Eximbank were to be accounted for in the government sector, public debt might increase and the so-called sovereign debt struggle would fail. There is a balance to be drawn here, the debt of the sector must be deducted, and it must be accounted for, and the number referred to by you should be accounted for for for two years, so the increase would be significantly lower. But even if that were to happen, it would be true to say that under the Fidesz government, public debt is falling, that the Fidesz government has stopped government debt growth and that it is able to meet the 3 percent GDP deficit every year. In your case, however, in the case of the MSZP, I would like to be very silent on the issue of public debt, because I would like to remind you that between 2002 and 2010, during your governance, the volume of public debt increased by HUF 12,000 billion, and you managed to increase the GDP-to-GDP ratio to 85% in eight years. This is now again around 75% under the government of Fidesz, and we will not allow it, no matter what method of settlement it is necessary to apply, the government is committed to reducing public debt, unlike the Government of the Hungarian Socialist Party. I think that, in place of the MSZP, the issue of public debt [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'd rather be quiet. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-11-28	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-04-11-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The facts are as follows. Eximbank is 100% state-owned. Two, you're the ones who changed the way it works to allow domestic slugs and not just to finance exports. Three: this greed has led to the fact that the lending of Eximbank is now multiple times the lending of the original export financing. Fourthly, Eximbank does not have its own deposits, it pays the placements against additional loans, because, for example, after the sovereign debt, the Hungarian government, the Hungarian State, will have to withstand them, so the argument is very clear that if the State ultimately assumes responsibility for the loans, Eximbank will be part of the public finances and therefore the government debt will be expanded. Secretary of State, you shouldn't have been greedy... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2016-04-11-30	I couldn't tell you in a minute whether you would accept the answer or not, but I took it out of your words that you didn't accept the answer. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Interventions from the lines of the MSZP, including: How generous, Mr President. Unbiased sitting!]] I ask this House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote. Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: One second was too much for him! He's nervous. It's embarrassing.]] Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:.338 million HUF public money was given to Hada? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-11-31	Mr President, Dear Parliament, [[Interviews from Jobbik: Have we missed out?]] The title of my interpellation was that the Hada received HUF 338 million in public money as a gift? I've been thinking seriously about giving him the title of "Where does the money for small and medium-sized enterprises go in this country? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The government portal was announced in great letters in 2014 that the Hada Group's selection hall was handed over in Kisvárda. Now, this was a celebration that was attended by the then Secretary of State, and Miklós Seszták, Minister of National Development. According to the report, the company received a grant of HUF 338 million for a project that, by the way, cost HUF 483 million, and in return they undertook to create 155 jobs, which they otherwise agreed to fill with hundreds of registered job seekers. The Secretary of State held a press conference after him and said that 90 percent of all winning applications would be companies with 10-20 employees, but he admitted that there were also a few companies - I just quoted the Secretary of State - that he was obviously referring to Hada. The head of the company also told us about the investment in Kisvárda, that this company has triggered its so far twinning plant. If we look at this story and sum it up, we can see that the government, according to its own declaration, has also helped out a large company with a turnover of billions with more than 500 employees from the budget for SMEs, with no new jobs appearing to have been created, but on paper, the whole case seems to have been legit. Indeed, the aid application was submitted by an undertaking which fulfils the conditions of application on paper, called Maxx Pont Kft. and the new jobs were formally created. Only if we look at what happened to the workplaces here in Company Info, we can see that between March and April 2015 the number of people employed at Hada decreased from 789 to 528, and at the same time the number of employees at Maxx Point has magically increased, from two to 175. I have recently asked the competent ministry in writing about what happened here in particular, yet on what basis it could receive support, even if it was indirectly a large company with money for the little ones. But they've washed their hands, and you don't seem to be interested in that question at all. There are two options here: either you've been double-crossed, or you knew about this deal, but it seems that for some reason you didn't get your eye on the fact that a cool big business is getting the money for the little ones. So here's the question. How was it possible that if you thought this support was regular and Maxx Point received HUF 338 million, which, by the way, was not a related business for Hada, then what was it doing at the factory inauguration organized by Hada? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Your Secretary of State and Miklós Seszták Minister of Development? If Hada didn't get the support, how do they explain that they initiated the factory?
u2016-04-11-32	Congresswoman, your time is up.
u2016-04-11-33	How do you explain this situation?
u2016-04-11-34	Thank you. I would like to say to Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary, before I give the floor that I have just failed to announce the result: Mr Tállai State Secretary's reply was accepted by the House by 113 votes in favour, 42 against. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-11-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and From 2011 to 14 years, 3700 small and medium-sized entrepreneurs received job-creating investment support with a budget of more than HUF 41 billion. Since the change of regime, so many SMEs have not yet received grants. The vast majority of the aided enterprises made the investment in disadvantaged areas, with a significant number of new jobs created, using job seekers. With this support, we have also contributed to the preservation of more than 45 000 jobs. To answer your question specifically, which you have already mentioned, which we have already answered in my written reply of 7 March 2016, I would like to inform the congresswoman that Háda Kft. did not submit any support for the job creation proposal issued by NGM in 2014. It is important to stress that Háda Kft. and Maxx Pont Kft. It does not share the same ownership, it is not related undertakings, so the number of the two companies did not have to be aggregated when the aid proposal was drawn up. [[14.20]] Maxx Pont Kft. In 2014, he submitted a proposal to the Labour Centre of the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Government Office for job creation for SMEs eligible for funding from the National Employment Fund. According to the decision of the Minister of National Economy, Kft. The investment was supported by HUF 338 249 929. Maxx Pont Kft. committed to employ 155 employees to the number of two employees already in existence and to employ them full-time for two years, employing 100 out of 155 job seekers. The cvt. its investment has been carried out in accordance with the terms of the Authority's contract. On-the-spot check report of 10 April 2015 concluded that kft. the employment obligation of 2+155 persons indicated in the official contract has been met and the number of employees actually employed has been 169. According to the report of 24 February 2016 on the fulfilment of the employment obligation of job-creating aid, Kft. has fulfilled its employment obligation for the first year. The actual number of employees was 179 at the time of the report. According to the official contract, the obligations relating to investment, employment and operation have been fulfilled and no irregularities have been identified by the county government office responsible for control and therefore the recovery of the aid is not justified. The expiry of the total employment obligation, after 7 January 2017, the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Government Office will verify the fulfilment of the full two-year employment obligation by on-the-spot checks. I'll thank you if you accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-36	In return, I'll give the floor to the congresswoman in a minute.
u2016-04-11-37	Mr. Secretary, I don't think it's your job to give up my interpellation one more time, but to answer my question. I asked you, if you think Maxx Pont received this support, then why did you send the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State to an inauguration organized by Hada? Why didn't you answer that? Now you've either been double-crossed, or you knew this was going on, and LMP is going to press charges for suspicion of fiscal fraud, because we are not going to tolerate large companies giving money to small companies, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Look, Secretary of State, you have told me how much SMEs are getting, and I would add that, at work, about a tenth of what the multi-company has said, despite the fact that before you came to government, you said the opposite. We also know clearly from publicly available data that the owner of Maxx Pont is a minority owner in Hada, and we also see that this case reeks from afar. You can't accept what you're doing; if you write out money for the little ones, you'll have to land in small businesses, not the big ones. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I don't accept the answer.
u2016-04-11-38	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 113 votes to 36, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Tragic states in the social field - Will their promises not be followed by meaningful steps now? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-39	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union in February this year, EU law is not compatible with certain elements of the SZÉP card system and the Erzsébet food voucher system. This basically completely empties the SZÉP card. At the same time, there is a system for it, and this could provide a good basis for the introduction of the social card system that we have proposed so many times. Over the past few years, Jobbik has initiated this on numerous occasions. And your position varies. Because although our proposals are rejected in order, as their own proposal, some changes - as is usually the case - are still being dealt with. In 2013, the then Secretary of State, András Doncsev, promised that the introduction of the social card could take place in 2014 in a single system. However, this was just another clever campaign that was based on their own social consultation in 2011. At that time, only 15 percent of respondents thought that only people in need would receive aid for money. In view of this, the use of Jobbik's idea for election purposes was indeed a good campaign course, so that they could quickly forget it. I think it is undisputed that there has been a long delay in establishing a transparent, fair, targeted aid system based on the need principle. Until this is done, taxpayers have a right to feel that their money is being wasted irresponsiblely. In areas with a high percentage of aid recipients, it is common practice that in the days following the payment of aid, the alcohol, soft drinks, sweets and chips of local shops are basically emptied. This is why it is important to determine what basic food, clothing, pharmaceuticals, housing or school supplies can be spent on social card subsidies. This would clearly be in the interest of children whose parents are now irresponsiblely spending aid and child - rearing aid on pleasure articles, thereby endangering the proper and fair rearing of children. Dear Secretary of State, Although I know it's changing, what exactly does the government think about the introduction of a social card? Based on the built and then empty system of the SZÉP card, will you examine the possibility of introducing this system? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-40	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you look at the system of social assistance now and look at it several years ago, you can hardly recognize it, because the very principle that we discussed the bill here in Parliament and the other government regulations were also adopted. For example, in December 2013 we set up a system of grants in cash and in kind, called the PTR, from which everyone can see exactly what kind of benefits the state is paying, and this will help us to save the system from possible abuses in order not to have parallel benefits for the same title. In parallel, a few years later, the system of state-owned district income replacement subsidies and local authorities' spending compensatory payments by municipalities was established. This is the real focus, because when the level of income compensatory subsidies is judged at local municipal level, they see exactly what kind of living conditions the person is living in. We have often heard similar examples of someone going with Mercedes for social assistance. This kind of current regulation prevents them from doing so, if they have been - and we have heard about them many times - so that they can prevent them from judging by local knowledge of life - style, what kind of expenditure compensatory subsidies they are entitled to. This is obviously not the case for benefits in kind, health services and public health services, especially in cash care, and that is why in many cases local authorities have also given individual social aid in the form of a voucher for Elizabeth. I think it is very sad for everyone in Hungary, and it does not increase sympathy for the European Union or confidence in European decision-making, that the most important thing for the Union was to destroy that Erzsébet card system, programme system, social holiday system, or, more specifically, to destroy the financial basis of which in recent years 800 thousand of our countrymen have been able to go free of charge or at a reduced rate, and half of these 800 thousand people were young, young people who could now go to summer camp, they could go to Lake Balaton, they could go to a talented or artistic or sports camp, but if the state had not helped, they might never have been able to do that. That is why it is important for us to maintain this kind of camping system, even in other forms, but also in the future. As the Member pointed out, the government has not introduced the social card before, and it is not on the agenda at the moment, but it is obviously looking at all possibilities later. So far, the government has not decided on this, let's see if there will be a situation later when it is worthwhile or necessary to do so. But I think with the new funds that introduced a HUF 30 billion extra form of municipal support, and with the new distribution system that provides much more control to local authorities when distributing the funds, we managed to close many, many earlier loopholes. [[14.30]] In the same way, we managed to close loopholes when the former disability pension system was abolished, which, according to Jobbik, MSZP, LMP and Fidesz-KDNP, included very, very much maladministration, and not real social problems, but a solution to social problems with a bad instrument, the retirement system, instead of providing real jobs for these people with jobs and incentives. We therefore believe that the current system is much more transparent, offers much less opportunities for abuse, and that there is much greater decision-making competence for local authorities not to grant municipal support to those who do not need it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-42	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-04-11-43	Obviously, I cannot accept this answer because the social card, as you said, is still not intended to be introduced. I would like to tell the Fidesz fraction that we are living in the technical conditions of the 21st century, and that the introduction of a social card would make the operation of the social system, the payment of these subsidies much cheaper, and would also make it much more transparent, since virtually everyone in the country could see exactly where payments are being made. It is very important to mention that the Erzsébet voucher is not named, but it is definitely a card for a name, which is why, when customers leave the store, they would no longer be exposed to the usury crime, since an Elizabeth voucher can simply be taken away, I think it can be used for too many things, while this should be narrowed down much more than the social card. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask that you be party to the 21st century, and that the technical achievements be taken into account and introduced. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-44	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 110 votes to 31, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sándor Font, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, let us make it clear what slides the opposition is using during the criticism of the earth's programme! It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-04-11-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, with the Secretary of State, we were able to attend an instructive subcommittee meeting, where it became clear that the opposition is constantly using strong slippages to the farmers. In connection with a programme, the second phase of which has recently been completed. These opposition twists, sometimes lies, serve only political hysteria. Perhaps this is what the opposition hopes to see a degree of improvement in its high level of social rejection. Zoltán Gőgös, my fellow Member, was moved to claim that there was no state sale of land during the MSZP governments, while he was the political secretary of state for the FVM, under whose control special land sales took place. Because it is really difficult to call the measures with which the MSZP has given state land at a ridiculous price to farmers, theessutod companies, public limited companies, private companies, their owners and subordinates who have come close to the MSZP. This socialist trade cannot be compared to the current programme, which provides land-based farmers with public auctions, where the starting prices of land are ten percent higher than the average land prices in the given region, and experience shows that actual sales prices are well above this increased starting price. It is outrageous that those Members who really wasted state property at the time branded the current programme of squandering the land. But it is also beyond the limit that the opposition claims, at the head of Jobbik, that the government is selling the Hungarian land to so-called foreigners, in relation to people living and farming in Hungary, who often have dual citizenship. That's a lie. If I recall correctly, there were 24 farmers living here for more than three years and having foreign citizenship among the more than 4,000 winners. I need you to adjust these numbers, please. Let us conclude: about 5 percent of the country's agricultural land is the area offered by the state to buy, thousands of people get land, so the accusation is impossible that the land that comes to farmers in this form would upset the land structure of our country. Dear Secretary of State, That is why I ask: how many hectares of land did farmers bid on in total during the programme? How many estates have you won? What size are these? What is the amount received from the sale? How many excuses did you get during the auctions? How might these be investigated? When will actual land purchases take place? So, what do they look like for the farmers? The completed stages of the programme in numbers and how does the government evaluate them? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-46	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You have highlighted a great deal here in your speech, and I would like to start quickly by answering the questions. 180,000 hectares of land in the hands of farmers, in the hands of Hungarian farmers, this took place in more than 19 thousand estates, and this represents approximately HUF 240 billion in revenue to the state. I would like to put it in a quotation mark - obviously you know that as a professional - that we are talking about a longer process here, and we are talking about a summary of the bids and the demands received, because the transfer of ownership itself is still waiting for you, because there are different deadlines for posting, or, where appropriate, who needs credit, the time for applying for credit must pass. What I would like to emphasise, however, is that more than 10 500 farmers have bought. You mentioned a number, rightly, this participation in the bids, taking into account the autumn figures, but now we have the spring numbers, we have the numbers below three hectares. As a result, I can say that I think we are pleased that 10 500 Hungarian farmers have bought land. Considering that there are 100,000 registered farmers, this means that every tenth Hungarian farmer could buy from this state farmland. This is also an answer to the fact that there was a need or no need for farmers to react to this programme. This programme is clearly supported. They listen to a lot of demagogic, opposition speeches, dissuade and depression, so that they don't shop and then go to the auctions and buy these fields. I have gathered a few points of debate that you referred to, and here in the social debate this has come up. One is the question of large enterprises versus family farms. Some numbers, if you'll allow me. In the autumn we sold 120 thousand hectares, of which more than 80,000 hectares were estates that did not reach 150 hectares, so the smaller the space area; it immediately decides whether it is a large plant or a family farmer, because I think that the estates of less than 150 hectares can be regarded as the size of the medium family estate system, adding that by the way, two thirds of the customers bought one piece of land, so we cannot say that there was much to buy one or few of them, but the situation is the other way around, very many people bought less land. In addition, there is the Land Traffic Act, as no one can go over 300 hectares, currently the current Hungarian legislation limits the maximum acquisition of ownership to 300 hectares. The other argument is that you're expensive or cheap. Accordingly, we looked at the survey of the Central Statistical Office and the market leader bank compared to the averages of the land, not only on the basis of this 10%, but also on the basis of current statistics - National Land Fund Manager - the smallest difference was 22 percent, which was the difference between the land value of the market leader bank and the real purchase price, so we gave the land at least that much more expensive, for example, the value of the land in Fejér county was 500 thousand HUF/hectare more expensive than otherwise available in these public statistics. It is not worth arguing about the market price anyway, as we are talking about a bid, it shows exactly the market price. I can tell you that a very successful programme, one in ten Hungarian farmers, was able to buy, and I am very happy to continue this sales round with a third auction round, where we will offer new lands to Hungarian farmers at a public auction in order to strengthen the agricultural middle class to acquire ownership. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-04-11-48	I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor in return.
u2016-04-11-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your reply, Mr State Secretary, which I accept. Allow me to mention, in the meantime, that it is a compliment to the government offices that conduct this auction, often under the circumstances that Members and opposition representatives present here appear on the auction day at the scheduled time and, by their aggressive, disruptive conduct, sometimes want to sink the auction into a parody. [[14.40]] However, fortunately, the government offices managed to do their job in a safe and secure manner. For the record, I urge everyone to go out and bid on what the opposition criticizes, why it won, and why it was the winner. Auction Open [[Sándor Burány: Let's borrow from the Eximbank!]] They can go there, they can go, ask their friends, they can go auction, and they can get the land. At the same time, I can only tell that our socialist friends sold the land at a price of HUF 300,000 at the time, and now the Hungarian farmers bought the land. Thank you, I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-50	The Member therefore accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. What changes are the Government planning in the field of vocational training in 2016? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, More than a year ago, the government decided to reconstruct the vocational training system, which had already been held once by a former Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy. The former Secretary of State for Labour and Training states that the concept will bring further fundamental and very serious changes in vocational training, as stated earlier, will be crucial in the coming years and decades, as it intends to transform the field of vocational training in full depth. The declaration from more than a year ago was that the transformation system will affect the system of vocational schools, and this transformation will result in the creation of vocational schools and secondary vocational schools where there is a chance to acquire a degree and a profession. The current vocational school is converted into a vocational secondary school because the initial vocational training period, after a three-year period, automatically provides for the possibility of further education towards graduation. With this step, the government's undisclosed intention is to bring young people out of the university back into the vocational training system. Dear Secretary of State, What exactly is included in the VET conversion announced over a year ago? Where and when can you read the concept of this? Why are they creating new uncertainties in the vocational training system? When will it finally be predictable, and when will the needs of the economy be taken into account in the national vocational training system? Because from the vocational training system we have seen so far, it is not clear and clear what will happen in vocational training. The only one we can see is that at the moment nearly 50,000 people are waiting to retire and leave the labour market, and they do not have any gaps in the vocational training system. Therefore, my question, Mr Secretary of State, is what will happen to the replacement of those who retire or are going abroad and do not work at home, so that they can be replaced. Because in today's system, we cannot see or see or see it from the concept that you have half-disclosed. The other is that 60 percent of those in the unemployment register are not qualified. What will be the fate of adults who are unskilled, what is the government's intention to do, if it can develop a concept so that adult training can also take a course in order to gain a safe and livelihood? Today, we do not see how the concept of this issue will develop. I ask you to answer that, Mr Secretary of State. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-11-52	State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I think we can agree and agree with me that there have been significant changes in employment in the last five years, which is a good result, since compared to 2010, we can see that unemployment has decreased by around 6 percentage points and employment has increased by about 10 percentage points, which means that the economy is developing and requires professionals with good skills. For this reason, we have long been thinking about how the government was thinking and working on how to provide the labour market with this professional team with good skills and quality skills. This is a huge challenge, not only in the field of vocational training, but also - you mentioned - in the field of adult education. This challenge has been constantly monitored by the government since 2010, and the results of recent years, as I mentioned, show that it has handled the situation well and things are going in the right direction. One of the milestones of this was the concept of vocational training in the service of the economy, adopted by the government in its 1040/2015 government decision, which you can see at kormany.hu at any time, as it has been up, available and read since March 2015. The main objectives of the concept are: to meet economic needs, to strengthen dual training, to increase the attractiveness and prestige of organised vocational training, and to improve the vocational training system. On the basis of the Government's decision, the necessary legislative amendments were submitted to Parliament in the first half of 2015. The Ministry of National Economy took over the maintenance of hundreds of vocational schools in the summer of last year, so in 2015, 44 new vocational training centres were established, and the possibility of obtaining the second qualification for free was introduced - perhaps an answer to what you said, as a question of how professionals will be able to become professionals - and the system of guaranteeing the Chamber to strengthen dual vocational training, in cooperation with the Chamber, define the direction of vocational training. Work will continue in 2016, along the lines of the amendments referred to, the expected actions of which, based on the legislative amendments indicated, have been discussed in almost every vocational training event in the last year. Thus, as the honourable Member pointed out in his interpellation, from 2016-17 academic year, i.e. from September 2016, the old vocational training institute, the vocational training institute, will be transformed into a vocational secondary school, and vocational secondary schools will be transformed into a vocational high school, where it is open to all, besides graduation, to the acquisition of the profession. In line with this, the National Training Note was renewed in 2016, the National Training Note was amended, and professional documents adapted to new trainings are being drawn up. The development of vocational training bridge programmes for young people who are leaving is also under way. From 2016 to 20, there will be an increase in the number of short-term qualifications for scholarships in vocational education and training in schools from the current 12, and the scholarship system will also be renewed. New support options have been introduced in the VET contribution scheme, for enterprises engaged in practical training, and more than 15 000 adults have been involved in adult training. Thus, adult education has also begun to a significant extent. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I can still tell you, but the time is up, so thank you for your attention, and I hope you will accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-54	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-04-11-55	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, What you've listed, and I've looked at the 2015 material, which comes back to the beginning of the nineties, and what was in vocational training before the nineties, try to reconstruct them, because that's when there was a chance that a skilled worker could ever pass through a system that might give him a diploma, and that's what I see in this text I read in the 2015 material. This would not be a problem, I think, but it has not been taken into account that the expansion and emergence of the IT system greatly changes the competitiveness of professions, and I do not see this happening in any material. Therefore, I cannot accept your answer, because with age the concept that we can see cannot evolve, because it takes much more dynamic ideas to achieve the return hope of vocational training. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-56	The Member therefore did not accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Tragic states in the social field - Every third man is deprived of his retirement years by the Government? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. [[14.50]]
u2016-04-11-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps, in an unprecedented way since the change of regime, the Constitutional Court stopped the possibility of pensioning men after 40 years of employment in September last year following the start of the collection of signatures already issued for the referendum. The gown board, which lived on better days, found the Curia's previous decision unconstitutional, so there was no referendum on the issue. It is no exaggeration to say that men with 40 years of retirement are no less deprived of one third of men than the only opportunity to spend a minute as pensioners. Indeed, a health survey carried out at the end of 2015 showed that in Hungary, one in three deaths in men occur before the age of 65, meaning that one in three men has no chance of reaching the retirement age. What is this, if not entirely unworthy of treatment without social justice? So nearly a million people today still live by men who work decently, pay their taxes and contributions fairly, and have no chance of enjoying not just a few years, but even one month of retirement. And this is not just a financial and income issue, it is a moral and moral issue. What 40 years of work means, we can present it in a lifelike and simple example, based on a few statistical indicators: if a man who was born in 1956 did not work at the age of 18, but at the age of 20, and then worked 40 years, he could have retired this year on the basis of the discount. Instead, the current rules adopted by the MSZP require a further five years. But only if you can make it another five years, because as your age progresses, men have to face a stubborn fact such as that in Hungary, your health life in men is only 58 years, i.e. on average, all men are suffering from chronic illness, diabetes, severe circulatory problems, musculoskeletal problems. Thus, it can be seen that this age group, or even the coming vintages, will have to work at least the next seven years in chronic patients instead of just two or maybe one. And if you are suffering from chronic illness, you know how exponentially health is destroyed by the constant strain. The aim would therefore be to ensure that, after 40 years of employment, the majority of men still enjoy their retirements in health. In summary, it is not exaggeration to say, based on health indicators, that one third of Hungarian men are being worked to death by the government, simply so that they do not have to pay a single forint when they retire. So I ask the Secretary of State why the government does not allow men who have worked for 40 years to retire with dignity. Why do statistics and, in reality, the government force a third of men to die? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-58	I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am trying to spare my fellow Members from demagoguery a little more than you have done on your own issue by working to death. I see that there is basically a significant difference in our approach. We have introduced 40 measures for women, and you are now demanding that we introduce the pension for men after 40 years. I don't think we're doing any good by confronting women and men. I don't think the way to go is to confront women and men, play them against each other. It is as if by favouring women, by introducing a grandmother's pension, the possibility of having grandmothers again in families would have put men in a less favourable position. Perhaps it was then that the Member should have demanded it, and also those fellow Members who are sitting in the benches not only of Jobbik, but also of the MSZP, who did not vote for the 40 measures of women. Now to demand the introduction of 40 men, when you have not contributed to 40 women, I believe that it is indeed quite significant demagogia. This is a social security pension system that operates in Hungary. Our priority is to secure retirement years for our pensioners. This is the objective that we took in 2010 at the beginning of our governance. We said that we would preserve the real value of pensions. And we did it every year. We have not only preserved the real value of pensions, but - and I am sure the Member knows that - we have been able to increase the real value of pensions by 8.7 percent between 2011 and 2015. So the objective that we did in 2010 is to preserve the real value of pensions, not only did we keep it, but we did it. The fact that we have also set out in the Fundamental Law that we can enforce the requirement of increased protection for women through the pension system is indeed reflected in 40 actions by women. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in a society where life expectancy is gradually increasing, where the length of years spent in health is constantly increasing, it is not fundamentally the way to reduce the retirement age. The introduction of 40 women was not about lowering the retirement age. Women 40 is basically a family policy measure. Women 40 help that now, when there are no large numbers of multi-generational families in Hungary, when it is very difficult for many people in the family to manage the supervision of young children to be grandmothers again, to have grandparents who can be there for their children, to be there for their grandchildren, and after 40 years of eligibility, after 40 years of work, and after 40 years when we realize that women do so many times at the same time in their workplace and family life, well after that 40 years, they have the opportunity to retire, and then these women will also work, because in the form of invisible work they will perform this service alongside their grandchildren. Thus, by 40 we support families with children in Hungary. I would also like to ask the Member once again that demagoguery should be ignored in the future, not confronting women and men in this respect, either. You should have thought about it when you didn't vote for the 40 measures for women. The Hungarian government remains committed to keeping 40 women, and in addition to providing families to grandmothers and grandparents in this way. Thank you very much for your attention and for accepting my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-60	I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-61	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, It is not that anyone or Jobbik would like to confront women and men. Our goal is exactly as you said, as the women in 40 led the government with family policy goals, and men in 40 have the same family policy, the same goal would be to unite and unite families. We do not suggest it because we want to confront anyone, but we also want to give men the opportunity that women have been given. Dear Secretary of State, These suggestions, for example, are not made by me, but by the real national consultation forums where we speak to the population, whether in health care or in education, they always appear and do not belong. People say that, and most of the ladies say that there is a need for this measure. And just as he has supported this institution with Jobbik's demonstration, his own T-shirt, he will continue to stand up for it in the coming years, and we will continue to recommend that the government consider the possibility of retirement for men after 40 years of employment. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-62	As I understand it, Congressman won't accept the answer. I ask the House if it will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 110 votes to 26 with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What programs are expected in the field of talent management? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! For us Christian democrats, it is particularly important to improve the situation of young people, and one of the most important manifestations of this is talent management. This means our faith in our future and our confidence in the growing generations. At the end of 2008, with a five-party agreement, Parliament adopted a decision on a 20-year term that defined the promotion of talented young people and talent as strategic government goals. Thus, Hungarian talent management can receive support at state level and receive support every year. It is important that talent management is effective with proper public involvement, and this will also be seen in the success of the next generation. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the state has spent nearly HUF 7 billion on more than 6,000 national talent projects, and this year it will be HUF 4 billion. The programme of action of the talent programme for the past and this year groups the range of people to be supported into three groups: national and cross-border talent, support for pupils, young people, support for talented people, organisations, and finally the implementation of the programme. [[15.00]] Dear Secretary of State, In view of the results achieved so far, I would like to ask what concrete measures, new programmes are expected in the field of talent management this year, and what additional support the government is planning to provide for the talent of future generations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love, and we will continue our work. State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák will answer the interpellation question. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2016-04-11-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Talking about talent in this building is also a great pleasure, because I think that the support of talented young people is a matter for all of us and for all of us. After all, our future is in talented young Hungarians. The talented young Hungarians make the good news of Hungary all over the world, and we owe it to talented Hungarian young people that we too can look to the future as an investment. The national talent programme is indeed a long-term programme. In terms of talent management, the long-term is a condition, since talented children should not only be held by hands at a very small age, but they should also be accompanied in the long term. We spend more resources on talent in Hungary today than ever before. The Hungarian government is now spending more than twice the previous budget resources on the national talent programme, as we have decided to double the tax 1 percent offer, and we will add additional budgetary resources to the 1 percent of the tax revenue, just to the same extent. This means that we have added an additional amount of 1.4 billion from central budgetary resources to the tax of 1.4 billion from 1 per cent. So it serves almost HUF 3 billion to implement the national talent program. I would also like to share with you that we are running a national talent coordination forum, where the chairman of the Cultural Committee of the Parliament is also present as co-chair, there are representatives of civil society organisations, representatives of the government and representatives of scientific life, and here all decisions have been prepared by consensus. We've come to an agreement on everything. It also shows that talent is indeed a common cause. From the national talent program we fund the talent management of young students, the funding of large national talent-care competitions is from here, whether they think of OKTV, OTDK or academic workshops in higher education, as well as in public education. But there is cultural talent, there is talent in sport, and there are special programmes to support talent management for disadvantaged or Roma young people. We have just announced proposals for the 2016-2017 National Talent Programme, and we have been able to put out these applications at an earlier date, giving the stakeholders an adequate period of preparation to start implementing these programmes from September. So the applications are open, and you can apply right now. It was an important innovation this year that all the elements of the national talent program were opened to our partners living across the border, and this is also true for the scholarship for the young talents of the nation, which, for the first time last year, allows special support for families with talented children in the form of individual scholarships. In addition to the sources of the National Talent Programme, the publication entitled "Hungary of Talents" was published on 23 December last year, thanks to which we will spend an additional HUF 6.5 billion on talent management in the next five years. Every forint spent on talent management, every penny will be refunded several times in the future. Our goal is that in all areas of the country, whether it is a child born to a disadvantage in a small settlement or a talented child born to the best way of life, these children will receive the necessary development, individualised expert assistance, talent support, and we can expect that these talented children will be talented adults who will make Hungary's good name abound in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-66	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will ask Congressman István Hollik if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-67	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for an exhaustive response. It is good to see that in many of the government's measures, the vision of building a country where they are doing everything they can to help young Hungarians, offering them a safe future. Here, in this case, I could mention a number of instruments, family tax incentives, family housing benefits, but these include national talent programs and talent management. As can be said, and a number of studies support the fact that, for example, every HUF spent on sports saves 2 forints on health care, the same can be said of the case of talent management, each forint spent on talent management, will bring further benefits to the national economy in the future. Allow me one more aspect that talent management will strengthen young people's ability to match their talents with performance, and they will achieve success. That's what talenting helps. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. The Hungarian taxpayers' money is expensive, isn't it? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, According to press information, the government will not start drawing on the Russian credit line available for the Paks expansion as long as the EU competition investigation is ongoing. If you stick to this, it is very right, because that means that you have actually recognised that the inquiry at the European Commission can bring results that you will not be able to make this enlargement in this form. Now, it makes perfect sense that under these circumstances, it would be a total gamble to throw that huge foreign currency loan into Hungary's neck, because there is no guarantee that this investment or what is practically the cover of this loan can be completed. Then let's move on to one point, let's look at the Hungarian budget and see how it thinks about the Paks enlargement. What we see is that this year there is 113 billion forints in the budget for this purpose, and this is where the question begins, which I must now raise, that, if it is such an uncertain project, you do not feel, Mr. Minister, full gambling and careless management of the budget, that you are starting to spend this money even though we know that this investment will not be possible. We see from the data requests so far that they can applaud a great deal of money for communication and planning, but these funds, if the European Commission decides, or if the Hungarian citizens decide in the form of a referendum, will be considered as wasted public money, as if we were starting to live off Russian credit. Therefore, I expect answers to the question, Minister, that if this investment is so uncertain and bleeds from more wounds and is called the investment of the century, but we clearly see the contracts, which is already public in the various documents, that this is a very bad business for Hungary, then why do they put this money here? We understand that you can hide these funds very well in Árpád Habony's media empire or at the Fidesz economic lunar station, but the expansion of Paks is not supposed to be about making you more petty, but about telling us completely different justifications here from week to week. There is one thing to see: if the Russian loan is risky to spend, I think it is just as risky to spend the Hungarian taxpayers' money on such a project. What we expect from you is that the unjustified public spending will be completed immediately, and we would like to hear at all an explanation of why so much money has already been invested in this investment. It is quite obvious that this is a state company in a monopolistic situation, there is no need for every second village and city to be posted by the fact that nuclear energy is cheap and worth it to the Hungarian people. We have been watching this cinema for 25 years, there has not been a single government in this country that has conducted the social debate with Hungarian people that they are even imagining Hungary's future based on nuclear energy or some other renewable, sustainable energy source. We see that Paks enlargement is completely unnecessary, harmful to the country, the environment, nuclear safety, and you are not paying enough attention to it. The country's foreign policy relations are being destroyed and clearly uncertain. Dear Minister, Why is the Hungarian taxpayer spending $113 billion on this project this year?
u2016-04-11-70	Thank you very much. Minister János Lázár answers the interpellation question. Here you go, Minister. I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats outside the Chamber. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-04-11-71	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for your repeated question, although it is likely that the democratic legitimizations that have confirmed the implementation of the Paks investment will not convince you, either now or in the near future, so it is likely that our debate and my answers to your interpellations will not satisfy your curiosity. [[15.10]] First, as we know, the Hungarian Parliament passed two laws before the spring of 2014 in order to provide both the investment and the necessary funding. This was supported by the majority of the legislation as a depositary of democratic legitimacy. You said in the 2014 election campaign that anyone who does not support the survival and expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant should vote for you. Depending on this result, what they achieved, the social support of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is high on the basis of the election vote in 2014. So in 2014, you wanted to make the Paks Nuclear Power Plant the main topic of the election, but no one wanted to see it because you don't have a policy that if it's not the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, then we do. I would like to inform the Parliament that today Hungary covers 30% of its daily electricity consumption from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, 30% from imports, 11 percent from natural gas and 7 percent from renewable energy sources and 14 percent from coal. We are curious about what you, pro-government representatives, have in mind, how, by what means and at what price this should be done. Another fact is that when you are chasing voters with green energy who do not want to stop you is that in Germany a household pays 90 forints per kilowatt hour for electricity and in Hungary 36 forints. How and in what way do they want to bridge the difference? The important question is that every German voter, every German household owner, supports renewable energy sources within HUF 90 by HUF 20. Today, the price of market electricity in Hungary is 50 HUF per kilowatt, compared to that of the population for 36 HUF. Who in this House has a proposal that can guarantee this low electricity price without the Paks Nuclear Power Plant? Stand up and tell us, and we're ready to have a conversation. Apart from telling me week after week that this is not good, you have not made any suggestions for a solution, how, if not so. I would ask the congresswoman to tell me, in favour of rejecting my reply, what is the solution for providing cheap electricity to the population if the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is not suitable. The European Commission - I will inform the Parliament - has constructive, advanced negotiations in two areas, which I believe are going in the right direction and are in the right direction. First of all, I would like to make it clear to you that the relevant and valid agenda of the European Commission after 2020 says that nuclear energy should be present as 30% of the total energy consumption in Europe. This means that today's capacities must be maintained. The European Commission therefore supports the nuclear energy investment in Hungary, which is why it contributed to the technical notification. On the other hand, we have given guarantees with the Russian-Hungarian agreement that we will respect and respect European procurement rules. Thirdly, the financial sustainability of this project since December, the fact that this country is worth even a EUR 12 billion loan, has been demonstrated by one of the world's strongest, most experienced and best financial advisory bodies and advisory groups in a publicly available form. What else do you want, Congresswoman? Electricity is cheap in Hungary, we want cheap electricity from low-cost credit, and after the loan can be repaid in the least, therefore it is not addictive. We're waiting for your proposal, because you can't disprove the facts I've told you, and you don't have any suggestions. Typical opposition behaviour. Good luck. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-72	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask the congresswoman if she will accept the ministerial answer.
u2016-04-11-73	I expect I won't accept it, because Minister didn't tell me exactly why that 113 billion forint should be spent now on Paks II. [[János Lázár: It's in the budget.]] while health care workers, social workers and daycare workers are on the streets in this country. [[Intercoms and noise in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Three doctors and two nurses go abroad every day because they cannot raise wages. But even though you're in the government and I'm in the opposition, you're the one who's asking me questions, and I should be the one to answer them. Dear Minister, When you're in opposition and I'm in government, we'll play this game. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] But until then, I have 30 seconds, so I'll answer a few questions. On the one hand, the Munkácsy study shows that Hungary could withdraw from nuclear power in 40 years. I took this volume to the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, and a Fidesz Member said that she should not be offended, but this research cannot be heated or illuminated. That was your comment on this research. [[Great noise and interrogations from the pro-government benches: Time! Time! It's over! It's over! The president's ringing the bell.]] Fidesz keeps me here. Dialogue. You don't want to engage with the opposition, you want to engage with Vladimir Putin. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Everyone knows this is your political commitment. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Don't drag Hungary into one of those relationships [[Complaining from the benches of Fidesz: Over! It's over!]] Which clearly shows that we can only draw the short straw! One more thing, Minister. [[Constant, loud noise in the pro-government benches.]] If you compare German prices, then also German wages, please compare them. If you come here at German prices next time... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off. Let's hear it for the LMP benches.]]
u2016-04-11-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Allow me to remain in charge of the meeting, and I will know when to withdraw from it, and I know how long I can allow the debate. It is not for you to decide. The congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 110 votes to 14, with 16 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Jenő Manninger, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How long will the Balliberal opposition continue to upset the Budapest population against the renewal of the City Park? It's an address. Congressman Manninger Jenő has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-75	Dear Secretary of State, Városliget is a popular holiday resort and cultural center in the heart of Budapest with several attractions and attractions. Unfortunately, however, the condition of its buildings and parks has now deteriorated significantly. In several places the sidewalks are dangerous for accidents, the buildings are dangerous for collapse, the vegetation needs rehabilitation. The government's intention to regain the original function and quality of the City Park is to re-enter the site of valuable family leisure, and a XXI. It should be an environmentally friendly tourist destination and cultural centre of the century. The majority of the design contests related to the Liget project were completed in 2015. And this year, the park will be renewed and construction will begin. As a result of the project, the park and its buildings will be renewed by 2019. The green surface of the Városliget grows from 60 per cent to 65 per cent, i.e. it will be tens of thousands of square meters larger, and the significant asphalt surfaces will be replaced with trees, new benches, garbage baskets, toilets and dog runners will be placed in the park. Recreational activities, new resting places, illuminated runways, cycling paths and stations, more sports fields, playgrounds and new catering facilities are being established. Four new cultural institutions are built in the place of existing buildings in bad condition or in concrete areas: the Hungarian National Gallery, the Museum of Ethnography, the House of Hungarian Music, and the former Városligeti Theatre is rebuilt. The existing institutions will be renewed and expanded. Pannon Park will be opened in the Budapest Zoo and Plant Garden, the Transport Museum will be restored to its pre-war face, the Museum of Fine Arts, the Castle of Vajdahunyad and the House of Olof Palme will be renovated. Transport will also be transformed and environmentally friendly. P+R parking lots, underground garages and Bubi stations are established at the site of the large-scale asphalt parking lot, and public transport has become an electric plant. The noise is dropping, the air will be cleaner. Dear Secretary of State, Balliberal opposition parties and their allies have made several attempts to prevent the renewal of the City Park. They abuse the fact that a large proportion of people are not yet properly informed, demagogically used to ask about the tree or building, listening to the fact that, for example, even if it were a park reconstruction without the construction of new buildings, trees should still be cut down. Of course, the plan is, and the plan contains this, that the green surface and the number of trees will be more at the end. They are driven by short-term political benefit, even though the strategic development of Budapest can start. I ask you: how long do you think and why can the Balliberal opposition do demagogic politics, and why do you want to prevent the renewal of City Park? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-11-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can remember that 4-5 years ago, if not so heated, the same circle started a debate about the renewal of Kossuth Square with similar content. They were worried about the state of the environment, worried about the return of major ideas about the renewal of Kossuth tér. [[15.20]] Today we can see that both the residents, the Hungarians and tourists are happy to come here and see how beautiful and well-groomed the neighbourhood of Parliament is And the nation's parking lot could have become the nation's main square here in Kossuth Square. Something similar is happening around the City Park, as Városliget, which, since the millennium, includes leisure, recreation and cultural, artistic functions as well as entertaining functions - if someone walks through it, either by looking at the state of the trees, or by looking at the large exposed surfaces and cracks and cracks on them, he sees - not something worthy of Budapest, the residents of Budapest. Anyone who opposes these improvements, renewals, renovations, is somewhat protective of this infirmity, because if we look at the texture of the trees, we can see that it also leaves something to be desired, there are hardly 10 to 20 percent of the trees that should not be subjected to some kind of treatment in the coming years, decades, to help and to remain healthy. Whether, if you look around and see all the concrete surfaces, you should agree to break these, as the congressman said, by increasing the green surfaces by 5%, and the buildings that are here or renovate, such as the Olof Palme House or the Museum of Transport, or the House of Hungarian Music or the new National Gallery. The Park Planning Competition of the City Park Park Parking Parks has started, and we can expect results here in May. The result of the consultation with the local residents, the residents of Zugló, was the many green surfaces, the setting up of the running circle, dog runners, playgrounds and sports fields; it was precisely so that the residents of the area, the residents of the area, would feel much better about this area, and, where appropriate, not about the infirmity, but they would be happy to go to the playground or the running circle and enjoy the opportunities offered by the City Park. It is one of Europe's most important cultural urban development plans that can take place here, we can be proud of it, it will attract a lot of people within Budapest, or it will be for many people, besides choosing Budapest as a tourist destination, the argument that you can find new, beautiful, well-groomed functions in the City Park, just as many hundred years ago the builders had no other plan than to create such an urban, pulsating centre and park. The development of the zoo, which is also in the order of tens of billions, with the construction of my biodome, the establishment of Pannon Park, represents a novelty that can represent a very beautiful new section for the year-old visitor zoo, and, moreover, a 25-acre green surface development through Podmaniczky Park. Everyone can be proud of this, I think, and in recent weeks more than eighty well-known artists, scientists and public figures with outstanding oeuvres have supported the development of the City Park in public, the continuation of the Liget project, and there are more than 25 Kossuth and Széchenyi Prize winners among them. The fact that the entire design proposal has promoted international architecture offices, and several of the current world-class offices have submitted plans for this is repeatedly underlining that Budapest is developing at European level [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] can create a world-class product. We hope it will be the same success as the reconstruction of Kossuth tér. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Jenő Manninger if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-04-11-79	Dear Secretary of State, There is obviously room for professional debates in such an epochal development, and there are obviously also professional criticisms that can be considered. This is what the government did when it changed its original plan for some buildings, and hopefully the international jury will now create epoch-making architectural works, like the plans that have been completed so far. The first is, of course, environmental protection, but besides architecture, city marketing is also very important: it is safe to say that Budapest can be developed where the world-famous Heroes' Square is, and around it we will create the museum district - it will certainly increase Budapest's reputation and world-famous reputation. That is why it is important that this plan be implemented, and, of course, not least because, as you said, it will also be better for the people of Budapest who live here. So thank you, I accept your answer. [[Ancient Novak: Rejoice from paper!]]
u2016-04-11-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[John Lázár: Ready! Foreman Novak: Quotes what the Secretary of State said in paper.]] Congressman Novak, why are you forcing me to warn you? [[Németh Szilárd István: And the medicine must also be taken! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the National Assembly, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: It's an address. Mr. Nándor Gúr, Parliamentary notary, shall take the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The emigration that has touched Hungary for a long time has never been seen. Last year, 33,000 people, a city of people, left Hungary for the longer term, supported by the statements of the HCSO. It should be added that the biggest problem and the biggest problem is that 44 percent of those who took up their tent are under 30 and 75 percent of those under 40. If we put these two ratios side by side, we can see what trends, trends are forming and drawing. In fact, roughly 10 percent of our fellow citizens are among those who are planning to work abroad in the short term, but the biggest problem is that people are now primarily motivated by emigration and living elsewhere, in addition to work or work. The search for short-term or long-term job opportunities and, as I mentioned, the planning of emigration is practically 15 percent of the population, so based on the 10 million Hungarians, especially in regions with cumulative disadvantages; it is not random, as life is the most difficult. But regardless of where, among graduates, among unemployed people, or even within the framework of student status, the same views are expressed in relation to drawing perspectives. Since there are many people out there - there are now about 600,000 people who are not doing their work within the framework of Hungary - there are many people and those who can also provide a helping hand in this respect, i.e. help emigrated people with regard to problems outside, introduction. I must say that this is nothing more than a brain drain, although the activities of the Hungarian government are thickly coupled with the fact that the more qualified people, whether they are people with knowledge in their heads or hands, are leaving this country. Mr. Secretary. In fact, we should think about it, and my questions are also about when concrete measures will be taken to curb this story in a good sense, or rather, I would say that they will motivate these young people to stay home and build society at home. In what sense does so many leave the country play a role in the development of the Hungarian economy? And what if this process does not stop? Where does Hungary go according to your judgement? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question raised will be Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-11-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The biggest problem with your attitude and your attitude is, I think, that you have a very one-sided understanding of reality. This is how it happened now, when you talk about only one aspect of the balance of migration, namely how many people left Hungary last year; not that there was about the same magnitude of the return flow, as well as the coming home. It is undoubtedly a fact that, according to the administrative data of the HCSO, the number of women in the population increased by around 1500 in 2015, but the in- and backflow increased at a faster rate, with some 3500. This, contrary to your claim, means that the brain drain has not increased, as you have interpreted and described, but on the contrary: the rate of emigration has decreased compared to previous years; primarily because more people have come home. I also think it is important to draw attention to the fact that, according to the KSH's system of traffic, there are also women in the country who go abroad only temporarily, so there is no mention of what you said and what you are trying to suggest that these people are, so to speak, permanently separated from the country and the Hungarian economy. [[15.30]] The international movement of labour is not a particular Hungarian phenomenon at all, no matter how much it tries to adjust it, but it is a worldwide process, not only within the Union, the labour force moves from south to north to east to west, but also from countries outside Europe, a part of the skilled labour force is constantly moving towards more developed regions of the world. I would like to repeat it again, because it has been said several times from my mouth and between Parliament's walls that Hungary's migration from the region is at its lowest pace in the last decade: while Romania has a migration rate of 10 per cent and Poland of 6 per cent, it is around 2 to 3 per cent. The international comparison also indicates that the least of the countries that have recently joined the Union have gone from Hungary to work abroad. So you're overly concerned, and I think you'd rather suggest it than say it as a fact. This migratory pressure can be reduced by boosting economic growth, which you may be experiencing, although you have tried to deny it a few times, for example by promoting wage catch-up. The purchasing power of wages that can be earned at the workplace in Hungary is constantly increasing, which facilitates a positive turn, i.e. the migration turn in terms of changing the direction of the trend. In 2015, the average purchasing power of Hungarian salaries was 15 percent higher than in 2010, and this should also be seen as a fact. In particular, the situation of workers with multiple children has improved over the last five years, where the real wage increase was 30-40 percent. I would like to draw attention to another figure if you had missed it: in January this year, real earnings exceeded the level of one year ago by 6.4 percent. Such dynamic growth has not been experienced in more than a decade. So that means we're doing everything we can to... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You can do it!]] - Yes, Congresswoman - to keep the workers here in Hungary and the young people you mentioned. There is a Youth Guarantee programme that specifically helps young people to find their place in Hungary and to keep their jobs here, together with the job protection action. The effectiveness of the measures so far is largely supported by statistical data. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , the number of 15- and 24-year-olds has increased and their unemployment rate has decreased. You can find all these in the KSH data. These are, therefore, the incentives for economic growth, the promotion of wage catch-up, the strengthening of vocational training, the means by which we can ensure that this dynamic, i.e. the dynamics of outflow, is reduced, but the return flow is increased. Please, my answer. [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] Then please accept me. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would also ask you to keep the timeframes in mind more precisely at other times. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Excuse me.]] I will now ask Mr. Congressman, Mr. notary, whether you will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-04-11-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll tell you right from the beginning, no. But why not, I'll say. Because with their waiting program, or whatever their name is, they brought 52 people home. So, unfortunately, people, especially young people, are leaving Hungary, fleeing your actions, fleeing the economic policy you are pursuing because you cannot do a normal economic policy. This policy that you are making is not a favourable policy for the people who receive below-average wage income. They are hit by you, people losers of the story in lower income bands. In terms of purchasing power. You don't talk about wages, you've stolen the wage increases of minimum wage workers for five years, because they've also paid extra contributions to their employers! They lied to their eyes and stole it! The simple conclusion of the story is that the will of the people will sweep you away like the wind of garbage. So the answer cannot be accepted. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-04-11-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Tragic conditions in the social field - before disaster. It's an address. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-87	Mr President, Dear House, The looting of foreign exchange credit victims is slowly drying out the economy over many years and causes a social disaster along the lines of fragmented families, evictions, implementations that can now be seen at national level. Today, I was in the West Square, where all the groups protecting credit victims are actually conducting a joint demonstration that the unfair so-called account that this government has committed against them should be corrected, stopped, the disaster that you have given your blessing on, because from a simple case, if someone took up their so-called loan at HUF 160 or 165, it is insolence that you are at an almost market rate of HUF 256, this huge difference in value, which is the currency money, will be credited to the banks' accounts and legalized for them. Here, by the way, we have a delegation of foreign exchange credentials sitting in the box. Therefore, I am not the only one asking for answers to the questions that arise, but you should be kind enough to go out into the corridor and not hide from the credit-damaged ones, because it is the job of a Member to take on similar confrontations in all circumstances. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] Their so-called accounts. I would like to note that while it is presented as a success story, while the giant posters are being put on account of the banks, the number of citizens who have not been able to perform 90 days ago has approached - and is slowly passing down - the level before the so-called settlement; 140-150 thousand, then 160,000 contracts, the family members behind it are in constant danger, and among them will be risked by the banks to whom they are placing their apartment, taking their property, evicting them. Therefore, I ask the Secretary of State not to hide with the National Asset Manager, where, in fact, there is room for 3,000 more people to take his property and then rent his own apartment back. They don't suggest a private institution as a solution, because only one or two hundred people were able to drive their heads into the amazing prisons where you might leave less spendable money than a public worker's wages. Don't give me the endgame, which only helped those in luckier situations, the rich. The demand for credit victims is clear: extend the eviction moratorium, stop evictions with immediate effect, until the problem is solved, and, secondly, use a new account to forint these loans at the rate of admission, and regroup the 100 billion forints that people have taken. That is why we are asking our questions along these two points: how open and dare they be to face the credit-damaged ones? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-11-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Firstly, I would like to thank you for talking about a catastrophic social situation, expecting a solution and asking the Minister of National Economy this question. So thank you for considering Mihály Varga's opportunities and capabilities to solve social issues beyond economic and financial tasks. Obviously, that's not true. Your question, your written interpellation, is basically about what happened to the Feds. If I may, I would like to return to this question, and I would like to respond to that. First of all, let's get out of this situation. So the situation that millions of people in Hungary were in an unworthy situation because of foreign exchange loans was caused by the government whose representatives are sitting behind us: under socialist governments, people were almost irresponsiblely driven into the possibility of foreign exchange credit, forced not to draw their attention to the risks involved; they did not draw attention to the dangers of exchange rate change; they did not draw their attention and they were not warned that banks could raise interest at their convenience, which they would eventually have to pay. The Fidesz government started to face this problem in 2010 and immediately began to overcome the extremely serious social problem. [[15.40]] Thank you very much for telling me these measures in front of me. Indeed, 170,000 people were able to make use of the end-payment; the possibility of a price barrier, even if you minimize it, could live with 186 thousand people. Moreover, after accounting for the banks, mortgage lenders received an average of HUF 718,000 refund from the banks. The banks paid back the people a total of HUF 734 billion. Since 2010, the banks have had to spend a total of HUF 1000 billion to return this to the deceived people. If the Fidesz government hadn't come in 2010 and didn't consider it one of its most important tasks, this wouldn't have happened either. Today there is no foreign currency credit in Hungary. People can no longer be misled today because the law protects people from this deception. As far as the moratorium on eviction is concerned, the Fidesz government has taken the measure that cannot be applied until the settlement is completed. This lasted for about five years. Honourable Congressman, People in a difficult situation really have other opportunities. For example, the National Asset Management system does not make it small. And this issue does not concern 3,000 people, but by the end of 2017, 35 000 people will be able to take advantage of this option, where, in contrast to the HUF 189 billion debt on mortgage loans, they have already been exempted from this loan. Honourable Congressman, We agree that [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There is work to be done, there is work to be done to help these people, but please accept the results of the government as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. John Lazarus: That's right!]]
u2016-04-11-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-91	Mr. Secretary. This was so weak that even a weak applause from your ranks shows that this flood of lies simply cannot be handled calmly. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: Stop lying!]] After all, given the few billion regrouped forints, if that's all they gave us back, how much do you think the Hungarian people were actually down by the financial institutions concerned, which you should have accounted for. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] Instead, what did they do? Last year, they made a pact with the Banking Association, a pact with the stakeholders that no additional burdens would be imposed on them. And in 2001, you guys opened the bottle that gave the spirit the opportunity to make unilateral treaty modifications. It is true that all hell broke loose during the socialists, but it is also true that you made the so-called settlement, the result of which is that 15 thousand real estates are in danger now, the process of finding themselves on the street against the property of 15 thousand Hungarian families. Therefore, they must immediately extend the eviction moratorium; they must do a new accounting, a fair one. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's because the stolen stuff comes back, and we're not gonna let that happen. I don't accept your answer because it wasn't, you lied! [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-11-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, but, Mr President, I do not believe that Parliament is worthy of the final word you have said. [[It suits the Secretary of State.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Now vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 32 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, Why is the government helping to squander our natural values? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is very unpleasant to bring up my own subject after such a subject, because, compared to the government's destruction of people, what I bring up may seem almost secondary, but it is of great importance to the way we treat our natural values. And in my interpellation, I am asking whether Sándor Fazekas is capable of representing the interests of the sector as Minister for the Protection of Natural Values, since the milestones of his ministry are mostly marked by nature destructions, which, in the vast majority, have been achieved with the consent, agreement and support of the administration. The first question here is obviously to ask the question: does the Minister for Nature's Protection really represent the case of nature conservation in the government? And it's very unpleasant that you're sending in your secretary of state to answer that, because it's difficult for a subordinate to take a position on the minister's professional activities. And the question is, if the interests of nature conservation go against the government, what follows from this. Just a few examples: the exploitation of the Molnár János Cave was issued for diving courses for 150 thousand forints per month. It is a priority natural value containing endemic species. You thought it was a good use of it. Basically, the whole thing is done by endangering the living fauna and flora. In Villánykövesden, the building of a hotel was authorised, where the entire original vegetation had to be destroyed, millions of forints worth of protected plant species were destroyed forever. Obviously, it is of the same weight that the construction of the yacht port in Balatonfenyves was exempted from the legal requirements, which is one of the most impeccable public property thefts of today, since there they have basically privateised 4 hectares from Lake Balaton, which is now visible when the mud is standing on the bath in Fenyves and Máriafürdő, what additional damage will be done to the environment, tourism and local communities. Obviously, there is a question of what the government is doing in the face of persistent fish mortality. How Budakeszin's nature destruction, which we hear today, is an investor trying to build family houses on a protected vegetation stock in a Natura 2000 area. In the site of Bishop's Forest containing natural values, there was a proposal to build a kayak-kenu course, the government and the authorities did nothing. And it is obvious that, in the same way, Small Balaton, while taking EU subsidies to save the increased natural value of Tüskekvár, they do not even try to use alternative routes when building the M76 motorway. I'm asking you, how can you do all this? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] is suitable to call the minister. What is your opinion on whether it is capable of representing natural values in the government? Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-11-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it should not be surprising that I myself do not see the situation in this way, and I think that the efforts of the government and the portfolio in nature conservation are particularly successful and effective, because in the last government cycle we have spent an unprecedented amount of HUF 38 billion on habitat development and improving the state of natural values. As a result, the environmental status improved at 120,000 hectares. We have implemented habitat reconstruction projects worth HUF 22.5 billion, ensuring the restoration of protected natural and Natura 2000 sites. We have developed the area management infrastructure of National Park Administrations; 31 forest schools and kindergartens have been renovated to mention only the main figures. Of course, I cannot answer 11 questions in the framework of the interpellation exhaustively in 4 minutes, but I can assure you that in each case the nature conservation interests have been enforced on the basis of the legislation. Let's see it in a row. 1. The almost entire service system of the Molnár János Cave is underwater, so its substantial presentation can only be done through the use of diving tourism. The presentation activity shall be carried out by a contractor selected by a public tender. 2. The hotel building process in Villánykövesd was legal. In this case, the wallet has already informed the Member.3. No objections were raised from either the local government, the civil society organisations concerned or the population to the construction of the sailing port in Balatonfenyves. The supervisory board found that the investment had no significant environmental impact. 4. In relation to the yacht port planned for the Siófok-Szabadifürdő site, the determining authority has already taken two negative decisions in the preliminary investigation procedure. The new procedure is currently underway.5. In the case of the Tarján-Pataki reservoir, the competent fish management authority has carried out the fish rescue provided for in the legislation with the holder of the nearest adjacent fishery. [[15.50]] 6. Budakeszin has not been built or intervened in this area; natural damage has proved to be a false alarm. 7. In September 2015, Mayor Zsolt Borkai said that the track was not being built regarding the construction of the kayak-kenu track planned in Győr. 8. The water-sharing negotiations for the conclusion of the Bős-Nagymaros trial are ongoing and the environmental evaluation will be carried out in the context of the agreed solutions. 9. The trail of road section M76 has not yet been decided, as far as we know. 10. I would like to inform you that the concept of forest protection does not reflect a portfolio position, the debate is ongoing, the State Secretariat for Environmental Affairs does not identify with the concept in its current form. Finally, with regard to land privatisation, I would like to inform the Member that in all cases, the nature conservation conditions are included in the sales contracts for Natura 2000 sites. Honourable Congressman, As we know from folk tales, the frequency of the wolf's cry is inversely proportional to credibility; but they may still be wolves. Speaking of wolves, there are some that we can both be happy about, now permanent representatives of the wolves returning to the North Mountains, presenting an encouraging picture of the state of our habitat. Nature conservation must not be more important than maintaining this. Thank you for your attention, and please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Sallai R. Benedek if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] Here you go.
u2016-04-11-97	My fellow Members are shouting here that yes, but I do not understand why it would be in their eyes if we destroyed natural values, so why it is good to have a hotel in place of a Natura 2000 habitat and why it is good for anyone to build a family home there. Basically, if a national government is not important to the nation's natural heritage, it should not call itself a national, and therefore obviously it is not possible to accept this answer, which tries to explain and explain things that are unacceptable in a specific way. It is said that these expert positions are that the port of Balatonfenyves has no environmental impact. Well, why don't you guys go outside, run me down to your knees and see if it hurts, see where the waste was moved, and see if you can dispose of it? Let's see if there's been a relocation in Natura 2000 areas. Obviously, the appearance of the wolf in Hungary can be welcomed, but interestingly, the secretary of state did not talk about the other 150 species whose population in Hungary has changed significantly in the last ten years. You can say it to the Hungarian society. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that there is a wolf somewhere, but they haven't seen it yet; but how the swallow changes to stock is seen by everyone - explain to them that the condition has improved! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 106 yes, 31 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. Can you support her? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-11-99	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, In 2009 the Hungarian Parliament accepted the preliminary principle contribution necessary to prepare the construction of new nuclear power plants at the site of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant by 95.4 percent. This required that, after a long discussion, everyone agree and trust in the matter. Compared to this, it has been almost 7 years since then, the information about the preparation flows very slowly between the government and the Parliament in this case. In this situation, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to carry out a very thorough and wide-ranging investigation and continuous supervision at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant site in order to verify the fulfilment of the tasks related to the preparation and implementation of the construction of new nuclear power plants. It is not only for foreign professionals to create transparency and transparency in relation to investment, but also for representatives, NGOs and trade unions in the Hungarian Parliament. Conditions other than funding for the expansion of the nuclear power plant, in particular the conditions of nuclear safety, energy demand, technology and opportunities, should be taken into account and their fulfilment monitored. We consider it necessary to continue to monitor all the preparatory and implementation activities relating to the construction of new nuclear power stations. The provision of information and transparency is of paramount social interest and a legitimate social and professional need. There is a need for regular consultations with the relevant authorities, civil protection and professional organisations and representatives of the Hungarian Parliament. Control of government activities falls within the competence of the Parliament. That is why my fellow Members and I have initiated the creation of a parliamentary ad hoc committee for many times. Every time the Economic Committee rejected this initiative, we also need trust and transparency on this issue. That is why I would ask the Minister whether the majority of Fidesz-KDNP and you, Minister, support transparency on this issue and support the creation of an ad hoc committee. If you say yes, then we will submit it again, it is not necessary for us to submit this ad hoc committee again, because there is a need for trust, and I think that transparency is not a question. I think the majority of the government could use such support. Thank you.
u2016-04-11-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-04-11-101	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Firstly, I would like to thank you for pointing out that the first parliamentary decision on the maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant was already taken in 2009 and that the energy strategy, which was also adopted by a large majority after 2010, and which clearly speaks, does not conceal the fact that it is appropriate to maintain this capacity in the long term in relation to the blocks that have lost the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's operating license. This means that by the second half of the 2020s, the blocks that are necessarily at the end of their life cycle should be replaced, and that the capacities of Hungary should be worth it and should be maintained. As regards transparency: first of all, we have introduced our bill to Parliament on the conditions for starting work and, secondly, we have amended the nuclear law, Paks II is also a law, and we have made the financial agreement available to the public here in this Chamber, and we have even received the support of our legislative fellow Members. On the other hand, as we know, for technological security reasons and, of course, for the protection of developed technology, our business partners insist that information is protected. We would like nothing more than to limit data protection, technological protection and the public than what is possible in the case of the Finnish nuclear power plant, which is supported by the European Commission, or what is necessary in several nuclear power plants in the United States of America which are currently being built in parallel with ours. We are prepared to co-operate and cooperate in the creation of the international standard, which differs and violates the country's national security or economic interests, and I think it is better to be restrained and comply with the rules of the game. We are in constructive consultation with the European Commission. I will answer the specific question of the Congresswoman specifically as follows. I would like to ask you to present this initiative of the Hungarian Socialist Party to the parliamentary parties if, with the European Commission, we are expected to conclude our negotiations on two matters, competition and public procurement, by the end of June this semester. This is yet another important stage in the implementation of the power plant, as the Commission's approval for technical notification, technical authorisation or fuel purchase has already been made. If that happens, I would like to propose that the Hungarian Socialist Party's initiatives be discussed by the parliamentary factions' community, and I can guarantee my support on behalf of the government. So the government is ready to set up a committee in Parliament to monitor the implementation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant from licensing to turnkey state. And we are also prepared to provide information on an ongoing basis, taking into account, of course, national security risks. I would like to ask you to wait for the European Commission's relevant procedures, which I hope will end in agreement and in a short time, and then the government will support the establishment of the committee, in a five-party dialogue, I believe that the atmosphere that is necessary for the implementation of the nuclear power plant can be created. We are talking about EUR 12 billion, 10,000 jobs and up to 1.5 percent GDP growth, which is of strategic importance for Hungary. [[16.00]] Not to mention that the jobs of thousands of people are at stake, and the aim is to achieve a technology that benefits our country, our common country. I'm asking for your support on this. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-102	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Congresswoman Anita Heringes if she will accept the ministerial answer. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-103	You have voted in favour of the energy strategy, but the action plan has not yet been completed. There's still work to be done in this, I think. This is the area where half-intel and half-news are mistrusted, isn't it? That is why we have tried to initiate the ad hoc committee every single time. Unfortunately, most of the time in the Economic Committee, we have rejected this proposal without debate or opinion. We will submit the ad hoc committee when these conditions are met. I therefore accept the Minister's reply at this moment and we are going to present the ad hoc committee, and we are waiting for the majority of governments to stand up and support it in the same way. There is a need for transparency and, of course, there are issues of national security where a closed meeting may be required. But I think it's important that every faction knows and trusts the case, whether you've made the right decision or not. Thank you.
u2016-04-11-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As we have heard, Congresswoman has accepted the Minister's reply. President Novák, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, Tragic conditions in the social field - Having solemnly signed our support for proposals to increase the population, why have we voted off our proposal to reduce the VAT on products for child rearing? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation on behalf of Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-04-11-105	Dear Secretary of State, The weakening desire of our country's population, the lack of faith in the future, the social distrust of the social and family support system is indicated by the decline in population, which is increasing. The annual decline in Hungary increased to 40,000 people in 2015 compared to 35 thousand in 2014. This is already causing economic problems. Due to the ageing of society and, of course, the population explosion of Roma and the emigration of tax-paying Hungarians, there is a sharp increase in the proportion of dependants, so the pension system cannot be maintained, and there is a threat of social security and even the collapse of the entire public finances. Statistical data show that people believe that the government cannot provide a predictable vision that would be necessary for young people to start a family. However, this should be a priority for the adoption of budget and tax laws, and even for all regulations. That's absolutely not true right now. For example, János Lázár is no longer ashamed to say that, I quote, the Prime Minister's Office is unfortunately not a family-friendly workplace. Such anti-social messages and the fact that they are not required to work at the Prime Minister's Office are also extremely harmful to the child bearing of employees of other public administration bodies. According to Jobbik, more serious family policy efforts on the part of the government would be needed, and it would be best if the family money were not taken away in the first place by the 27 percent VAT, which is an EU record, or even a world record, when parents buy the products needed to raise children. Therefore, we recommend introducing a small VAT rate of 5% for products for raising children, such as diapers, strollers or baby clothing. In fact, since formula is supported by the social security system, but not breast - feeding aids - I would not go into the list of these products now, although I have become a great expert in breastfeeding - the point is that [[Defiance.]] So we also suggested extending the reduced VAT rate to these products. However, our bill was voted out last month by the governing parties. In addition, in 2013 Fidesz and KDNP's group leader signed the five-party declaration in which this also stands, I quote, and I confront you now: We undertake to support proposals to increase the population in government and opposition role. Mr. Secretary, have you forgotten this too? - looks like it. It seems, as well as the 2009 bill that was submitted to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5 per cent, that our proposal was rejected in the same way that the MSZP voted against your proposal in 2009, which, of course, is not ashamed to demand the same thing now. Mr. Secretary, aren't you ashamed of your cloaks? But shouldn't they support our proposal to reduce the VAT on child-rearing products in 2013? I ask for a substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-106	Thank you very much. State Secretary Bence Rétvári answers the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-11-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Jobbik has a rhetorical family policy and a practical family policy. Part of the latter, I believe, is that at least one of the seven members of the eight-member Presidency has received some kind of party money or party position in the past period. It's a kind of attitude, it's a kind of attitude. [[You have another piece of paper in your hand! The president's ringing the bell.]] family policy, honourable Member, that they give advisory contracts to the parents of various party officials, and that they order studies from them. It's a kind of attitude from Jobbik. When you tried to convince voters to vote for you in 2010, you did not promise them that. Nor has it been promised, honourable Member, that when they get into Parliament and there is a vote on the definition of family, the community of men and women, Jobbik does not support these proposals either in the Fundamental Law or in the fundamental law on the protection of families. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] When we had to vote on whether to introduce the family tax system, Jobbik somehow remained silent and pushed the no button instead. Or when we have extended the possibility of family taxation to contributions from 1 January 2014, to those who could not use it, but I could also mention the ged extra, honourable Member, then, although Jobbik allegedly claims that family policy is his first, but if a bill contains such advantages as the extension of family taxation and other similar proposals, then you and your fellow parties here in Jobbik say no. So I believe that these different voices have remained at the level of rhetoric for the time being. At the same time, the last six years of activities of the Fidesz-KDNP government have led to a kind of population change in Hungary, which seems to reduce a 34-year trend, with a decrease in the rate of population loss, since if I look at data from last year, before and before last year, we can see that the rate of population loss first decreased by 3.4 percent and then by 0.2 percent. So the measures that we have taken in recent years, with the effort to spend 1.5 times as much on family support as the OECD average, since the OECD average is around 3 per cent, we spend between 4 and 4.5 per cent on support for families, this has produced results and is beginning to slow down these negative processes. We hope that sooner or later, if we go through this consistently, you will be able to reverse them. This is why we have decided to present the most important family policy measures to Parliament with two-thirds confidence in the fundamental law on the protection of families, precisely so that Hungarian families can plan in the long term. Thus, the fertility rate increased from 1.26 to 1.44, so that more children were born than before. And it is glad that the number of marriages has increased by 30 percent, which has also reversed a very negative trend. If we look at the total amount of money, how much extra opportunities we have left for families in the last six years, the counter that would measure this is over HUF 1100 billion, what additional financial opportunity this government has given to the 1.2 million families who have raised children compared to other people ruling Hungary. That is an average of 950,000 forints per family, honourable Member. You can make different suggestions, but what was the government that, at the time of its own governance, was able to give the Hungarian families 950 thousand forints plus compared to previous legislation? And we will continue this, because the family tax relief for two children has increased by a quarter this year, and this will continue in the next three years. This is how we will double it, because it is one of the most important demographically. And I could mention the tax relief of the first married ones, I could mention the family's home-building discount, which is a very rare help for families in Europe as well. Honourable Congressman, Rather, they should have supported these proposals. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-04-11-109	Mr. Secretary, at first I thought that Árpád Habony had mixed up his papers and that there was another answer here. [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] . Well, he wasn't talking about what we asked. The VAT reduction required for child rearing is now the subject here. Well, how does the Fundamental Law come here, and you really think that demagogy is effective? ! And isn't it embarrassing to say that we didn't vote for marriage between a man and a woman? ! Do you really think that Jobbik can be framed in front of anyone by spreading some sort of, say, homosexual propaganda? ! [[16.10]] Well, I'm sorry, but you can make a lot of accusations about Jobbik, but you're making yourself laugh. [[Noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] The fact that we do not vote for a Fundamental Law, en bloc, does not mean that we do not agree with this half sentence or that empty horse-zung that everyone is equal before the law. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is this an empty horse-zung? Is this just an empty horse-zung?]] You are the ones who are not ashamed to introduce immunity, for example. But let's skip the Fundamental Law, because that's not the issue. The theme is VAT reduction. The question of 27 percent VAT, which is the world record, is whether it is right that products needed to raise children are also subject to such world record VAT. You didn't say a word about that, Mr. Secretary. Shame on you, that's unacceptable. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-11-110	Ladies and gentlemen, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 116 votes, 32 votes against and 2 abstentions. Now it's 4:11 p.m., the interpellation period is over, and we're moving to immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:, Are you ordering a salary of five million, Mr President? It's an address. The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the President for an answer.
u2016-04-11-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, I understand the rule of the house that Mr President should have been present in person again today. I'm gonna live with a point of order, and that's why I don't accept the deputy's identity. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-112	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and the Honourable Parliament that the President will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Members of the MSZP, Mr Gergely Bárándy and László Szakács, want to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: why does the D.A. make a ratty-tip clown out of the whole justice system? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, In the last few months, he has had a style of justice between the two institutions of the judiciary, the prosecution and the court, which has not been the case in recent decades. Imre Keresztes, head of the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office, began to explain to the public the prosecutor's certificate, criticizing the judicial decision on a matter of political concern. But there is an increasing incidence of public sword changes between the prosecution and the court, which are destroying civic faith in justice. Do you think it would be appropriate to bring these debates back to the courtrooms where they should be held under the law of criminal proceedings? However, the D.A. has not gone beyond the limits of good taste for the first time. First, in a public-interest criminal case, he called the court a rattle-hip clown. Now, in the Quaestor case, he criticized the Metropolitan Tribunal and the judge at a press conference in a sharp, harsh, personalistic style. I ask you, is this the new style of the D.A.'s office? The press, even for the style of politics, is sending a rude message, or will it be held accountable? Will Tibor Ibolya be separated from all of his embarrassing statements to the prosecutor? In this context, I would like to ask you, in substance, whether you will be personally responsible for declaring the indictment in the Quaestor case inadequate from the point of view of content and returning it to remedy the deficiency. Because there are two options, Mr. Attorney General. One of them is that he's incompetent as a prosecutor and head of the DA's office. It is then justified to replace them. In lucky countries, such a fiasco will simply fall for the D.A.'s office. And I dare not think of the other possibility that, as part of some kind of deal, the D.A. deliberately filed a wrong indictment to protect certain pro-government prominents, to whom the Quaestor leader has not yet confessed, so that, in the end, the inadequacy of the charge would allow the court to do nothing but exonerate Csaba Tarsoly and his associates. Which version is true, Mr. Attorney General, and what are the consequences? Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-114	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt. Here you go, Attorney General.
u2016-04-11-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The content issues first, then the style. As far as content issues are concerned, I think that there have been, there will be, there will be. Obviously, that's how justice works, which is why there is, for example, a first and second degree, and then an extraordinary remedy. If we look at specific cases, Congressman, you're referring to the Quaestor case. I would like to say that the prosecution is legitimate, that no one has disputed the legality of this, nor has the court contested it. The court found that six million electronic data in the 1500-page indictment had not yet been assigned to specific facts. I think, and this is where we have a professional debate, that this is not legally binding on the prosecution. Nevertheless, the court has issued an order, and we will comply with it within the framework of the legislation and the technical possibilities, and I am sure that liability will not fail if someone has committed a criminal offence in this case. We believe all 11 defendants did so. And as for style, I think style is important, but it's always behind content. In the case you referred to, in the case of annulment, the Curia found that the prosecution was right in substance. That's what you've decided. I think that this is the first, of course, of all the others to be resolved, but it is a secondary issue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-11-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. A one-minute rejoinder is the congressman's word.
u2016-04-11-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I was a little disappointed by your answer, because, as they say, style is a man, and it can also be understood as an institution. As head of the institution, I think you could have done so today, in public in the country, to distance yourself from the head of the prosecutor's office who speaks like that to courts and court leaders. It is not irrelevant here that someone speaks in a manner that has an impact on the functioning of justice as a whole and on the confidence that people feel about justice. On the other hand, professional disputes, Mr. Attorney General, should be in court, not in public. It's probably not a coincidence that the prosecution and the court have kept this for decades. Now the D.A.'s office has broken it. I don't know why. In addition, I did not say that the charge was not legal, but that the court was unable to convict anyone. I think you didn't answer the questions I asked you in other ways. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-118	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder will also be given to Attorney General Péter Polt. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-119	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think I've answered everything. What I may not say is clear from my words. [[Defiance from the opposition's benches.]] And as far as the prosecution is concerned, it is capable of being discussed on this basis, and the D.A. will properly supplement it, once again, depending on the laws and technical possibilities. I would add that the only way we could handle the six million figures was by buying software for a very, very, very large amount of money, just so that we could handle this case in a timely and efficient manner. This happened. I am convinced that this is how the court will handle it. I would add that professional debates are held between us in the right place and that the public is only informed. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-11-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 shades of corruption- Let's uncover the cards. What makes the Prime Minister's environment rich? 4th episode. Gábor Vona, the leader of the group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-121	Mr. Prime Minister, The last time I asked you about your personal environment getting rich, you asked me a question instead of an answer. Since it is important for me that if you ask me a question, I should try to give you an appropriate answer, and since you wanted to know who those people were and what kind of contract they have with Jobbik, who are relatives of Jobbik's Presidency, I have looked into this question. Since 2010, we've had 667 people in some kind of contract. Seven of them are related to Jobbik's leadership, and I assure you, Prime Minister, that all seven contracts are backed by real work and real performance. So you can rest assured, Prime Minister, there is no problem of any kind around Jobbik's house. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[16.20]] I think it is very important to clarify such questions, Prime Minister, and thank you very much for bringing this to my attention, and if there is anything like this in the future, feel free to do so again. But I suggest that we now get to the point of my question, and that you be as open to me as you are to me, and that you give me an answer about your environment, your personal environment, to get rich, Prime Minister. Here I think of the media terminator Andy Vajna, the eminence of the grey economy, Árpád Habony, and I think of the nation's gas mechanic, Lőrinc Mészáros. All three people, Prime Minister, belong to your personal environment, there is no day that either one or the other or the third or all three of them would not be exposed to any juicy, confusing, vague matter which, Mr. Prime Minister, I think you should be most disturbed. I ask you how much longer you want to run, how much longer you want to hide, how much longer you want to push these people in front of you, and when the moment comes when it is very simple, very clear and I can say that Prime Minister will answer Hungary, not to me, but to the majority of Hungarian society, that Lőrinc Mészáros is your stróman or not your stróman. I expect you to answer this simple question, Prime Minister, and remember that a liar will be caught before a one-eyed whore. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-122	I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-04-11-123	I can give you a simple answer to a simple question. I never have, I never will, I don't have any strom. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-124	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In return, I'll give the floor to the leader of the group.
u2016-04-11-125	Prime Minister, I can see that you're very upset and I feel bad for you that I'm asking you about this, but I'm not going to stop talking about it because we haven't had any meaningful answers. To this day, there are still a lot of strange and vague questions about this matter. I would ask you, Prime Minister, to remember where your career began: you fought a dictatorship and what you have become today. Are you building another socialism or another dictatorship with corruption, small kings, lies, Prime Minister? The last time I asked you about Lőrinc Mészáros' case, you said to me that I was accusing you of a crime. Prime Minister, if you think so, and I see that you're nodding now, well, if you think so, then if you've said so, say yes, and let's go to court, Prime Minister. Let's go to court, give up our immunity, and let the court decide who Lőrinc Mészáros is, who Viktor Orbán is, who Gábor Vona is! Have such courage, have such openness and initiative. Let's go, Hungary, let's go, Hungarians! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-126	The Prime Minister is also entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-04-11-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, the situation is that from week to week, several leaders of the government coalition and several ministers here must tolerate you accusing us of crimes without any consequences. Indeed, it is the case that all Members of Parliament, especially members of the government, in Hungary, are obliged to make a declaration of assets and must correspond to reality. If you don't do that, you commit a crime. To claim, therefore, that anyone has a stooge, or that anyone's disclosure of property does not correspond to reality, is in fact a claim that he is charged with a crime. I don't think that's right. The situation seems that I have been a Member of Parliament since 1990. I've never been a wealthy man, and I'm not now, and I'm not going to be. The era you're talking about, the period of change of regime, has given us a choice. One had to decide whether to become a businessman or a political leader. I have decided to bear the consequences of this to this day and to this day. Therefore, I strongly reject any different allegations, accusations and accusations, and I will do my job even if you ask me every day about your slanders. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-128	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How much is it worth who doesn't have anything?" It's an address. Mr. András Schiffer has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-04-11-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Before 2010, you and your fellow party declared war on the faceless state incomes. Now in your assessment, Prime Minister, you have said that you are only in favour of a wage increase that has economic coverage. Compared to this, the wage ceiling was raised to HUF 3, 4 and 5 million for the heads of public companies. I can tell you the following sentence: in many cases these payments could be reduced by half, but they would not have any problems with living for these company managers, said Péter Szijjártó in 2009. Mr. Prime Minister, After that, you want to re-introduce the brazen law that would increase the incomes of the central bank managers, while the central bank has damaged the foreign exchange credit victims by almost a thousand billion forints. The thing is, right now, you're creating a 45-fold wage gap in public companies, such as the railroad and the Post Office. There's a 4-percent raise at the railroad and the post office, while the drivers' wages are skyrocketing. A nurse's two-year pay is being taken home by these state executives. Prime Minister, today in Hungary two thirds of workers earn under the average wage, 200,000 people in the public sector earn minimum wage. Three doctors and two nurses leave the country every day because of income conditions. The public workers' wages this year have not been raised at all. If you look at international comparisons: in the case of nurses and teachers, in the OECD countries, we are the hosts, if we compare the wages of central bank managers to the average wage, we are the list leaders. Doesn't it hurt you that the same worker in the Mercedes factory in Germany earns six or seven times as much wages as Kecskemét? Prime Minister, don't these workers, nurses, teachers have the cover, just for your kissers, corporate leaders?
u2016-04-11-130	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-04-11-131	I believe that I cannot answer all eight of the questions asked, including the behaviour of the central bank regarding foreign exchange loans, where I believe you misappreciate the situation, because the central bank saved Hungary from a financial collapse and saved hundreds of thousands of families from the impossible financial situation, so the central bank would rather be recognised than accused. I do not have to mention the difference between wages in Hungary and Western wages now, if I understand correctly, because this was just a page cut. Now, if I understand correctly, you wanted to ask me, or perhaps it seems that this week's intention was to answer whether I consider the pay classification of current state leaders to be correct. The answer is yes, I think it's right. It wasn't possible for a long time. I agreed with those who said that everyone should step back in times of crisis. I think it is important that the State Audit Office has made it clear that if we are to take action in the longer term in order to be predictable, we need to establish a clear, clear payment system for all types of payments within companies that are not clear and legitimate, such as bonuses, dividends, bonuses and the like. That's what the State Audit Office said, and the government examined it, and I agreed with that. If the question is that Hungarian state leaders... - sorry, the Hungarian company leaders, because we are not talking about politicians, we are talking about CEOs, because their salary exceeds twice or three times, let's say, the Hungarian Prime Minister, so if we ask the question, is it right that these company managers make so much money and this is a moderate situation in European comparison, then I have to say yes. The V4 average is below the wages of the leaders of our state companies, and the Western European wages are not worth talking about. I have to say that, yes, the Hungarian state company managers are the lowest-paid, and they are located below the same size of company managers working in the same industry. I think that a certain level of their wages cannot be carried out because it is at the expense of work and quality, so the current classification is in proportion to their responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-132	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Yes, it is, although it is indeed a sideline, that by HUF 900-1000 billion of foreign exchange loans you have damaged the damage to foreign currency loans. But as far as the point is concerned, Prime Minister, yes, the parliamentary majority and the central bank. But, Prime Minister, we live in a country where salaries are starting to break off the income that can be obtained in the V4 countries. Compared to that, you'd have to look at the salaries of the state's executives. Do you think it's normal for a driver to earn 45 times as much as a simple railwayman or mailman at the railway station or at the Post Office? Prime Minister, do you think that's normal? But I have another question. We have just submitted the same proposal for a resolution that you submitted in 2009. This proposal for a decision is about clearly limiting the salaries of state-owned managers. My question, Prime Minister, is whether you support Fidesz's proposal for a parliamentary resolution in 2009. Thank you. [[16.30]]
u2016-04-11-134	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is the Prime Minister's word.
u2016-04-11-135	I mean, what you're asking us to account for, we did. The reason why we had to make the proposals in 2009 was because it was common practice in the Hungarian state-owned system that the payment could be accepted, it could be accepted from your point of view, but in the background, premium, bonus, dividend, God knows what else made a much bigger amount of money. That is not the case now, because we have put all this within limits. There are clear, transparent rules. You don't usually talk about this for some mysterious reason, so I repeat that due to the employment contracts concluded in the period prior to our administration, I should have paid these executives an income of HUF 1 billion. With the new classification, we made a deal to accept the new classification and to give up their income of HUF 1 billion. That is part of the truth, my honourable fellow Member. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-136	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Congressman Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Where do the Hungarian strands of the Panamanian offshore scandal lead us? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Erik Bánki: Yes, I accept.]] Congressman indicates and says that he accepts András Tállai as a responder. Congressman Bánki Erik has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Less than a week ago, the Panama scandal started, and I'm sure you've already read the rumors in the press that certain socialist financial circles are stationed in tax havens that have been removed from the state. János Erős was the president of the Hungarian Development Bank between 2002 and 2010, when the socialists were governed. In fact, even his father held a high bank position in the party state system. According to the published information, he had a Panamanian offshore company during his term of office, through which he dealt with an Austrian investor with significant media interests in Hungary between 2007 and 2009. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, at this very time there was a transaction in which OMV wanted to buy MOL, and they almost managed to carry out this action. So it is suspected that János Erő and those Austrian circles had a role in this too. Similar information has also been published regarding the former MSZP cashier in Boldvai László Nógrád county, who was recently entrusted by party president József Tóbias with tasks concerning the party's finances. I think we can see from this too, ladies and gentlemen, what we can expect and what Hungarian citizens could expect if the socialists were to lead the Hungarian government. Dear House, I think, in the current situation, we need to do everything we can to wrap up the fibres of the Panama scandal as soon as possible. We therefore consider it important and justified that the National Tax and Customs Office carry out a full-scale investigation as soon as possible of the Hungarian involvement in the offshore scandal in Panama. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what efforts can be made to explore where the Hungarian strands of the Panamanian offshore scandal lead. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Gábor Bellozó and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervene. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Bell to Gábor:]] Congressman! Congressman, we're not yelling at you from the beach at a football game, this is Parliament! [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] Don't make me tell you, Congressman... Congressman, I'm warning you. This is unprecedented! Congressman, if you want, we can continue. You know, the consequence is that I'm suspending you for the day. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-11-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Firstly, I would like to state the government's clear position. The government's aim and expectation is that all cases that undermine the revenue of the Hungarian budget, where there is evidence of a crime, which is aimed at circumventing the Hungarian people's money, must be discovered, in this offshore company in connection with the Panama case, but also in all other cases. The fact that there is no uniform set of criteria at international or national level makes it difficult for offshore companies to deal with issues. However, in recent years, the government has taken significant steps to land these matters. For example, on 29 October 2014, it signed a convention with OECD countries. This will create the possibility of providing information from some 70 countries from the second half of 2017 and an automatic exchange of information. Hungary is a member of the so-called FATCA system, which is related to the US financial authorities and provides mutual information to each other. The Council of Europe has addressed this issue, adopted a directive in 2014 and a so-called DAC2 system will be established to ensure a complete financial information system and exchange of information between EU countries. The Hungarian Government also established that the Anti-Money Laundering Information Office could request the NAV to carry out a tax check from 1 July 2013. At the request of the government, a panel of experts was established within the NAV, which started examining these matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-140	A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Erik Bánki. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-141	Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the correct and thorough information. We consider it very important to monitor the changes that will be made later, the results that, for example, be achieved by NAV investigations. I am very pleased that Hungary has been able to sign new agreements with the countries that have defined them, which could result in a continuous flow of information. We would like it to be excluded that over a thousand billion assets can be removed from Hungary. Everyone is interested in taxing the money produced in Hungary here. We believe that Hungary has a tax policy that is remarkable both in Central Europe and in Europe. I think the government has done everything in its power to ensure that businesses that achieve decent results can pay taxes in Hungary under fair conditions. Thank you very much for your information. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-143	Honourable Congressman, If you'll allow me, I'd like to share some political aspects of the issue, the offshore scandal in Panama. For example, we already know that László Boldvai, former MSZP banker, has resigned from his party membership, and we also know that party president József Tobias said nevertheless that he is counting on his services. So it is typical for MSZPs to have morals, that those who have offshore companies, accounts, transactions, themselves acknowledge their guilt, or at least that they made a mistake, continue to matter to the Socialist Party. But perhaps it is a very interesting question that the President of the Hungarian National Bank, András Simor, voted by the socialists, acknowledged, even as President of the Hungarian National Bank, that he kept his money in foreign offshore companies, and only when it turned out that he was willing to bring them home to Hungary. And the latest case: the vice president of the MSZP, Mr.Gábor Simon, also turned out to have kept his money in foreign accounts. We already know that there is a party in Parliament that is up to its neck in offshore affairs, and this is the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question about the investment of the suspect playground in the Vadaspark of Szeged. Congressman Sándor Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Csongrád County Attorney General and the Regional Crime Directorate of the NAV in South Great Plains have arrested two persons in advance and issued an arrest warrant against one of them because of a particularly high-value fiscal fraud and a high-value money laundering offence. According to the well-founded suspicion, the playground established in the Vadaspark area of Szeged and the Titan Project. s House Kft., which, as I said several times here in the House, was connected with the Fidesz organization of Szeged, took unauthorized domestic and EU grants in 2013, since the cost of the project was only 15-20 percent compared to its total budget. There was also a suspicion that contracts with false content were concluded to conceal the origin of the money from the crime, including by intervening offshore companies. The budget totaled HUF 185 million in financial disadvantages. Dear Minister, I brought the case to Parliament several times, and the first time I asked you about it, you promised me that you would investigate the matter, which you did. I have been informed in writing. [[16.40]] It was that through the experts he examined the case and found everything in order. Two things came up in my mind after seeing the DA's brief that either he wasn't telling the truth, which I don't think, or that you were completely misled in this case. So I'm going to ask you again: how is it possible that the employees of the intermediate organisation found the overpriced budget of the tender in order and found everything in order both during the on-the-spot checks and during the final checks? Will there be any personal responsibility in this case, since the intermediate organisation has handled the applications in a sloppy manner? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-04-11-146	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár answers the immediate question.
u2016-04-11-147	My dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for asking. First of all, let me stress that Hungary has paid HUF 9223 billion in the 2007-13 European Union cycle, so I consider it particularly important that we account for each euro and forint to the Hungarian taxpayers and EU taxpayers. This settlement is taking place, there are errors in these accounts, problems arise, they are below the European average of 2 per cent. This case is part of the same circle. I may not have been able to spell it out correctly or ambiguous, but in December 2014 I ordered an investigation in parallel with the OLAF investigation. In total, the investigations were conducted on the basis of three decisions made in government interest, regardless of the police report and the fact that the prosecution first ordered an investigation because of a thorough suspicion of a criminal offence, and then initiated the arrest of two or three Hungarian citizens. The Prime Minister's Directorate for Audit of Grants established the irregularity and the contract was terminated by the Prime Minister's Office in spring 2015. This meant the recovery of HUF 185 million, which we also demand back from the project and from the entrepreneurs. What I can tell you is that in recent times, as in the past, everything is done with the toughest rigour, the most determined act, and without compromise, so that we can maintain legitimacy at such an amount. That is why, if you ask the Hungarian applicants today, they clearly see that the possibility of abuse is constantly being filtered out and eliminated, that tenders are becoming more transparent and accessible, and that the risk of corruption is constantly decreasing, and that is recognised by all European institutions. In the individual case, Congressman, I note that, on the proposal of the Prosecutor's Office, two people have been placed under house arrest, one is wanted, the European Union money is reclaimed, and the project has been abandoned by the Hungarian State. We've done everything we can if there's a serious suspicion of an irregularity or a criminal offence. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-148	Thank you very much. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary, I'd still expect you to do a little more research with the intermediate organization. I look forward to it all the more, as you can, because at that time the head of the intermediate organization was the man who now heads the public health department of the Csongrád County Government Office. I don't want to make conspiracy theories, but that man happens to be the wife of the former Fidesz mayor of Szeged right now, so I'm gonna ask you to look into it for a while. Thank you.
u2016-04-11-150	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is given to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-04-11-151	Dear fellow Member, I'm not the police and I'm not the investigating authority. The Hungarian Government respects the independence of the determining authorities in the ongoing criminal case. In your party, it is customary for the Csongrád County Attorney General or police to be instructed to investigate Fidesz politicians. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] We do not investigate or order socialist politicians or other politicians. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-152	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Words, words, words, words, but where are the actions? It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, While heads are falling on a more normal side of the world and governments can fall into the international offshore scandal, we have the two affected, Fidesz and MSZP, XX. The parties of the 20th century are trying to settle the whole matter with pretense measures and sound promises; they continue to maintain the common practice of the last 26 years that you can do anything without negative consequences for you, in Hungarian, you can steal, cheat, lie, and so far no one has called the guilty parties to account. I stress, so far, because if Jobbik gets people's confidence in government formation in 2018, [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Then we will put an end to this world that you have created together, without consequences, and we will account for the thieves, the liars, and the people who do good things to the detriment of them. So they're trying to get away with the offshore scandal and hide the crowd of offshore companies and offshore knights connected to you, without words, without action. Prime Minister, it is not enough to announce again now, in 2016, that offshore companies are being swept out of Hungary, as Prime Minister has already announced this in 2010, and nothing has happened since then. In connection with the offshore case, Jobbik is the only one trying to change the current bad and corrupt system, I repeat, because all Parliamentary representatives of Jobbik have said that they do not have an offshore interest, and this has been published on the Jobbik.hu website. You don't dare comment on this because you have something to hide. We published the property statements of family members living in a household with us in 2015 and 16 respectively. Even though we asked you to do so, you didn't dare, so you have something to hide here too. I ask Prime Minister why they do not dare to sign and publish the statements. How long are you going to hide? Prime Minister [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] These are serious cases, from which, even figuratively, it is a waste to hide behind the curtain, which does not solve them. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-154	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has the floor. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-04-11-155	Thank you very much. It always depresses me that an otherwise respectable fellow Member shows complete indiscretion. So, it's a sad thing. What words are you talking about? In the case of EU funds alone, if I remember correctly, over 40,000, perhaps 44,000 companies were examined individually in order to make a statement whether or not the beneficiaries were backed by the actual owners. Maybe it's not enough, I accept that it's safe to do more, just say words, words, words, while we don't do anything, it's bullshit. After 44,000 businesses went to the actual owner, to say that we're not doing anything, I don't think that's fair if that term still has any significance over there. On the other hand, today, the National Security Cabinet, we have set up dedicated investigative teams in the police department, specifically at the NAV, and I hope that the prosecution will also work together, which is to say that only offshore cases that have now been brought to light from international sources should be reviewed individually, i.e. the Hungarian aspects of it. So there are investigations, there will be investigations, I think there will be results, especially if international investigative bodies are willing to cooperate. This is not always the case, because, for example, in the case of the vice-president of the MSZP, the Austrian authorities refuse to provide information on how and how the funds were made for the Austrian accounts. We have similar problems, but we will not give up, even if there is no international cooperation, we will go after it. In addition, another issue that is important for Hungary has been brought to light in addition to the offshore. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] according to a statement from the British prosecution, a certain Alstom case, which is the same way this investigating committee has to reveal everything and make it public in its entirety. So you can trust us, we don't talk about things, we act. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-156	Thank you very much. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-157	Mr. Prime Minister, What you're talking about, do you know why you're investigating 44,000 companies? Because you made a law on 1 January 2012 that companies with an opaque ownership structure could not receive EU money. Six months later, we looked at how much money the National Development Agency had given offshore companies, and they were at HUF 30 billion. That's why they're investigating these companies now. The other thing you're saying right now is that you're going to have tests: I hope these tests will cover Andy Vajna's businesses and offshore companies, including how he took those 3 billion forints out to offshore companies. I hope that they will also include offshore companies selling Hungarian settlement bonds, which have benefited HUF 100 billion in recent years, a HUF 100 billion that could have been used for the benefit of the country or spent on the livelihood of the people. No, we offshore companies have to fill their pockets all the time. Prime Minister, nothing has changed, so much has changed since 2010 that we now have the government, and unfortunately we have to say that there are offshore knights in the country close to the Prime Minister. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And they can do anything in this country. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.50]]
u2016-04-11-158	A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-159	It would be nice to decide that when he attacks someone, I should know if he's being attacked or me, because in the end it turns out that every single person whose name turns up here in some way, it's my fault to say that makes this argument a little uncool. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Who brought you here? Who turned Andy Vajna into a government commissioner?]] Here's the thing. There are clear rules for the Hungarian State as to who can and cannot be contracted with. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right.]] These rules [[To intervene:]] - but there are rules, my honourable fellow Member, and they must be observed. That's what we're gonna do. Don't be impatient. The case just started. Three or four days ago, this offshore scandal has surfaced in the international press, or what to call it, the Panamanian case. It's only been three or four days... I'll admit you're impatient and you're expecting results, but give us a few more weeks. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-160	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, "Who, for what, how much do you spend?" It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. The Member has already indicated to me that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-161	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, As a Christian Democratic Member, I welcome and respect the fact that the civilian government, breaking up with the policy of socialist-liberal governments, pays particular attention to the financial support of the social sphere and to the elimination of regulatory provisions and irregularities. It is an extraordinary result that Hungary's central budget for 2016 already provides an appropriation of HUF 71.7 billion to local authorities for institutional child care and extra-institutional catering for children in need. I would like to stress that the number of children in Hungary has never been given a free or preferential meal, as between 2010 and 2015, the amount of central support for child feeding has more than doubled. Dear Secretary of State, We have already been through the first kindergarten school holiday when local governments have provided the children in need with meals. In this connection, I ask what the experience of holiday eating is, how the enlarged care system has tested. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the immediate question.
u2016-04-11-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This spring break was the first spring break in Hungary when children in the social catering system could get free meals from the state at least once a day, the state provided the funds and the municipalities organized this meal. 2245 settlements checked in and reported 142 thousand children they would like to feed during the break. Obviously, we'll have the exact number here after the accounts. We must say that during the spring break, the holiday meal reached more settlements than the summer, since at that time 1482 settlements required this. At the same time, it was this year's school year... - because in the previous year there was the first summer period, a summer holiday period, when all municipalities that requested support for children's holiday meals received. There was not a single municipality that should have said to the budget that the resources were exhausted and that there was no more. Every settlement that told me that he had a child who needed it came from the central budget, and he didn't have to cut or reject anyone. This has happened because there has also been an increase in the resources of the holiday meal, which has not been the case. As early as 2014, the amount of 3 billion was much higher, at least 20 percent higher than in the previous period. When we extended the meals for the other three holidays - spring, winter, and autumn - we increased them to HUF 4.5 billion, and then we added an additional increase of 800 million to ensure that the daily quotas, the daily amounts from which the kitchens can farm, the municipalities, from which children's daily meals, if any, should be made, should be a higher amount. That's why we put an additional HUF 800 million on it. This is to say that in Hungary children who are over 3 years of age - preschoolers, schoolchildren - cannot starve, because the state provides food for all those in need. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-165	Dear Secretary of State, On behalf of the Christian Democrats, we express our thanks to the Hungarian Government for the fact that as of September 2016, 318 thousand more children will be able to eat free of charge, as the money for this purpose has increased from HUF 28 billion to HUF 71 billion. KDNP will support further proposals by the government that will allow more children to eat free of charge and can also count on our support if this is made available to hospital patients and older people as widely as possible. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-11-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government is determined to do so, and obviously it will continue to do so, doubling the amounts and a more targeted system. The basis for this was that, as a result of the operation of the Hungarian reforms, the economy already has a performance from which these additional resources could be grouped, but the first decisions after 2010 were those that increased the sources of child feeding. Obviously, other governments would have had the opportunity to do so, as they could have raised this 29 billion to at least 50 billion, if not 60 or 71, as Fidesz-KDNP did, but they did not, on the one hand, because their intentions might not have been strong enough, but on the other hand, the economy certainly was not strong enough to produce these funds. That is why it is important that good economic policy has created the basis for good social policy, and Hungarian children are the biggest beneficiaries of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2016-04-11-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The national bourgeoisie goes to a tax haven? It's an address. Mr. András Schiffer's group leader. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-04-11-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, I am sick and tired of the situation in Hungary when the President of the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance rescue their assets from taxation to offshore companies, and then, on the basis of a lack of money, they are constrained. 'You, Prime Minister,' said you, quite rightly in 2009. Let's see what's wrong with offshore and not just legal, but also economic offshore when we talk about Cayman and Seychelles companies. They don't pay taxes here, we don't know exactly who's behind them, and we don't know what source they got this property from. Compared to this, Prime Minister, the situation is that I should continue the previous debate, at the turn of 2012-13, right-wing and LMP representatives asked you how the EU development funds of HUF 30 billion were paid out to investors in Belize and Seychelles, which are breeding in Hungary. But we can talk about Andy G. Vajna, the bravest Hungarian, who is so brave that behind all his investments there is an offshore net, so for example, when he got an export credit from the Eximbank to buy TV2, I think there is an offshore net behind his media company. We can talk about István Garancsi's MET, which is interested in the state gas trading business, also has offshore nets, but Felsút's most well-known gas mechanic has already bagged an interest in the Seychelles. The central bank continues the Simorian example and buys a palace from a company in the Saint Vincent Islands. In the settlement bond business, a company in the Cayman Islands made 7 billion HUF profit last year, and behind all the major intermediaries Árpád Habony's shadow is a Hungarian citizen. Is this the national bourgeoisie, Prime Minister? Prime Minister! Do you support the LMP proposal, which we are presenting to the House for a quarter, that once and for all [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] sweep the offshore knights out of the Hungarian national economy? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-04-11-170	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has the floor. Here you go, Prime Minister. [[17.00]]
u2016-04-11-171	First of all, I would like to put away the trail that Jobbik started, and now my fellow Member András Schiffer is on this path. I find it absurd that you are asking me questions from the position that I should take responsibility for the life of any other Hungarian citizen beyond my own life. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP, among them: It's for the country you're leading.]] Just to be clear, our political community is not a communion, not a kibbutz. It's customary for everyone to take responsibility for their own decisions, live their own lives, and account for themselves. That's true for me, too, so I'm happy to answer all the questions that relate to my decisions and are the result of my decisions. Then let's talk about the offshore. The fact is that the Hungarian State does not want to deal with legal persons, companies or individuals who are not in business with the Hungarian State. The fact that people who are not in business with the Hungarian State are setting up companies where they are established, if they do not violate the Hungarian laws in force, we have nothing to do with that. We will not even deal with it, because we do not want to set up a police force that will start investigating Hungarian citizens without any specific violation, assuming that they have some kind of economic activity outside Hungary. We have a very clear principle, and we are working to enforce it. The principle is to pay taxes where you earn money. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right.]] Therefore, we must insist that the person who made his money in Hungary should pay taxes in accordance with Hungarian law and thus assume his share of the public costs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-172	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. For a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. András Schiffer has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-173	Prime Minister, two years ago you announced the establishment of a national bourgeoisie in Tusnádfürdő. From now on, you are personally responsible for precisely who the national bourgeoisie is and exactly where it is taxed by these rather specific instruments. Is it a national bourgeois who has different tentacles in the Cayman Islands, the Saint Vincent Islands or the Seychelles, where appropriate in Cyprus or Luxembourg? Are you serious? But, Prime Minister, let's be clear. We demand that the Hungarian State, the Hungarian National Bank, local governments, whether socialist or fidesz municipalities, do not enter into legal transactions with various offshore companies. And here, not only is the offshore, Prime Minister, when the structure of a company is not transparent, it is also offshore, when someone is established in those 40 tax havens, where, for example, Andy G. Vajna or, for example, the seller of the Eiffel Palace. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We would like to remove these companies from the Hungarian national economy. The question is, do you support this? Thank you.
u2016-04-11-174	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is the Prime Minister's word. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-04-11-175	Again, allow me to begin with absurdities. Who the National Bank buys a property from is pretty limited because it can be bought by whoever sells it. But I wouldn't worry about that right now, it's a complicated connection, I see, over there. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But on the question of bourgeoisie, first of all, I hate the word. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's what I heard. Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Isn't the capital high?]] I hate the word, so I'm not into building a national bourgeoisie. We can talk about many other terms, capitals, and others; the bourgeoisie was brought into Hungary by the Communists in the 1950s so that people who did not like them could then be dragged out into the gulag. [[Applause and applause in the pro-government benches.]] So for my part, I'd rather avoid that, but that's still the point of the case, that's what it says. So I repeat: I agree with you that you are only allowed to contact the Hungarian State with companies with a clear background that comply with the laws. And the IRS must do everything in its power [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to pay the tax on the income generated in Hungary. We can agree on that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]]
u2016-04-11-176	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member István Németh Szilárd, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Are teachers sure they would be happy if Pukli's 12-point claim was fully met? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] I don't have to ask you if you'll accept the person of the responder because you've already indicated in the process. Thus, Mr István Németh Szilárd has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-177	Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I could have asked the question if it was really about teachers, really about public education, public education, schools, children, what we've been witnessing for weeks now. I do not think that a blind and sane person can see that it is not in the interests of the children, not of the school, who organizes these programs; we could say in the past time: the past strikes, the past acts of disobedience, but we can also say the actions organized on Friday and on the 20th of next year. You can see the political movement, the political lever, and now it's not about whether the politicians sat on the school movements, but it makes it clear either on the Internet or in the various organs that, yes, they are organizing, they are supporting, they are practically stimulating the whole thing through people who have been their loyal servers for a long time. Where was the PDSZ, where was the management of the PSP when, let's say, only one piece of data was given, the lock went to 381 schools between 2002 and 2010; when they took away the 13th month's salary? Where were the people in Csepel who organized the pre-Jedlik High School premiere? They're all politicians. Where were they when they closed four schools in Csepel, merged five kindergartens, terminated the hostel, practically sold child welfare facilities to offshore companies? So I think that when you don't want to accept the public education round table for a trade union negotiator; when you're lying to a civilian, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Civil Public Education Platform does not want to accept the Ministry as a negotiating partner, so I think that the constellation that we can experience on this issue is quite clear to everyone. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-178	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-11-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it was clear to everyone that the government on the round table for public education, and anyone who refused to come there, even in other discussions, sought to reach an agreement as far as possible. We've been negotiating with everyone. We've been negotiating in every form. Out of the 25 points, we've come to an agreement in 20. The result was very close, the compromise was very close, and yet, these organisations, accompanied by very strong words, said that they would cancel this series of negotiations. I ask you, what do they consider these 20 points to be, an agreed part or an unconfirmed part? Since 2013, we have had a general comprehensive agreement not to organise a job cessation while they are planning a job cessation. This afternoon there will be a discussion between the teachers' union and the representatives of the portfolio. I trust you will be able to clarify these questions there as well. And when they talk about how the career failed, I think that the teachers were happy to see the HUF 238 billion increase in wages that had already been made to them, and obviously we were expecting a kind of increased work for an increase in wages for the children. At the same time, we believe that it is important to have order in schools, and therefore we will do so at the last minute to open every school even during the strike, to have child care, since hundreds of thousands of children at school, the breakfast, lunch, or snacks received in kindergarten, are the main daily meals, and these children must receive the meals provided by the state. It is not possible that if a child wants to have lunch, he should go into the district centre, go into the school district and get it at a school. Obviously, that's practically impossible. We will strive for the benefit of Hungarian children and Hungarian parents to ensure child care at all Hungarian schools, whether during a warning strike or during a one-day strike, because we believe that this is in the interest of children and Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman István Szilárd Németh. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-181	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary, I think we can say that the problems of public education, public education, the future of the school, the points of dispute can only be settled by negotiation, only on the round table of public education. I think we can also say that children, children, cannot be used to resolve differences between adults through them. [[17.10]] And what we need to say most is that politics in school, in the school area, children facing children, and teachers facing teachers have nothing to do with it, because it is in the best interest of children to have a useful and lifelong knowledge in school, and it is in the best interests of parents to keep children safe between the school walls. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The public education round table and its working groups have already held more than 30 meetings and more than 100 experts, teachers, school principals and other professionals are involved in their work. But all those who said they wouldn't sit at the public education round table have never told me who it was that wouldn't do that. Who of these hundreds of experts or representatives of the eight sides who say they are unwilling to engage in dialogue, since they receive the invitation for each meeting, arrives in their mailbox, but rejects the possibility of dialogue. I think that it is rational to have discussions on education issues in the Ministry responsible for education, so we ask everyone to continue to come and participate, because there is a real reason for who they have problems with, no one has said so yet. We'll coordinate everything we can. There are certain issues, whether in terms of the textbook system or the clock load or the wage increase, in which we can no longer go on, since in teacher wage increases we have already given the maximum, I think, and for others, it is time to continue the policy of wage increases. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-184	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we have an immediate question on our last agenda. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question. It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-185	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Minister, As is well-known, the savings of the members of the Honvéd Health Bank were stuck at the DRB bank owned by the owners of the Buda-Cash Broker house. This HUF 1.8 billion was paid by over 27 thousand soldiers, national security, defence and law enforcement workers, health institutions. These people weren't stock exchanges. They were saving me for health care. The Prime Minister's Office has repeatedly expressed its commitment to helping these people, and the Defence and Police Committee has also supported our proposal for a amending budget that would have given us the opportunity to do so. Compared to that, nothing happened in action. You've been looking at the possibility for a year, Minister, of what can be done, and nothing concrete has been done in a year. It was the only new element of his response the other day, and this is the following: the closure of the winding-up process, however it ends, creates a new situation and hopefully brings us closer to the solution. For this reason, I asked György Matolcsy a written question, and his reply clearly shows that, on the basis of the data currently known, no collateral will be available to meet the claims of creditors classified after the claim of the National Deposit Insurance Fund, i.e. the payment of the claim of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund will not have any collateral available in the liquidation. So even though the merger took place at the Premium Health Bank, the Honvéd Health Fund also wrote down this claim, so we can say that these people are not going to get their money back. And it is they - Minister, I am telling you because they have repeatedly indicated that they are thinking about the solution - who are, by the way, ready whenever the situation requires, even to sacrifice their lives for Hungary. I think it's his duty to help the Parliament when they're in a situation like this. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]] Thank you.
u2016-04-11-186	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister. I would ask my fellow Members to leave the place quietly for those who have an urgent task which cannot be delayed, so that the Minister's response is clear and understandable to everyone. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-187	Mr President, Your mysterious question, "That's it?" I can give you the specific answer, yes, that's it. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz. Márta Demeter: That's very cynical, Minister.]] having regard to the fact that, in this framework, I do not see a realistic possibility today of paying the claims of the Honvéd Health Fund, in this framework, in this liquidation. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] To examine myself as the Minister for Information Affairs, where there are workers injured in the Honvéd Health Bank, or the Ministry of Defence, the Minister of Defence, where there are also those injured in the Honvéd Health Bank, we can be prepared and undertake to examine the situation of these people, their wages, their care, their savings and their social situation. So in the liquidation process that is taking place at the moment and where they can enforce their claim, there is indeed little chance, according to our current knowledge, that they will be able to do so, so that it will be effective, that it will lead to a goal. But these, you say, are vocations and service workers who have sworn to be willing to sacrifice their lives for their country in case of trouble, so they must be held by the government, whether by the Ministry of Defence or by us or by any other inspector's wallet. We are prepared to discuss with them what other solution is available, but they will not be able to enforce their claim in the context of liquidation. The question is whether we can help these people in other ways. It's not a small amount of money, it's not a small amount, it's hard to give back. In view of the fact that neither the Ministry of Defence nor the Inspector of the Information Office has supported investment or savings placements above the average risk, they should also benefit from the responsibility. But we are willing to examine the form of help for them. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-188	Thank you, Minister. In return, Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2016-04-11-189	Dear Minister, Now, given the importance of the case, I overlook the extremely cynical way in which you started your answer. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]] Over the past year, it is a matter of fact that we have not come any closer to the solution, but far further away. The government delayed for a year to find any solution, so we got here. These people have the right to feel that they have been deceived, they have the right to feel that the service they give to the country and to the Hungarian population is not appreciated. I understand and I hope to this day that when you say you're going to examine the possibilities, you will do so. We've been hearing this for a year, Minister. I ask you to do this effectively, and we will continue to come back to this on issues until something happens. Thank you.
u2016-04-11-190	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-04-11-191	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you had sent your question or asked it with a heading that would at least give you the opportunity to prepare for the answer, I would not have given you this answer, as appropriate, but I would have tried, in my hope, to prepare with a thoroughness similar to the working habits of the Prime Minister's Office. On the other hand, let me draw your attention to one thing. When these people placed their savings in a place far above the average risk for greater benefit, they did not ask the Minister for Defence's opinion and did not ask the opinion of any of the supervisory ministers. When the risk had to be decided, we didn't need our advice. Now that the risk has come true and they've lost everything they've saved so far, we need our help. If we help in this case, there may be precedents in other such cases, where I believe that individual personal responsibility can be expected and cannot be avoided. If they weren't armed, we wouldn't be dealing with the case in any way. We only deal with them because they're armed.
u2016-04-11-192	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. We'll get back to work. It is now time for a series of submissions to be dealt with. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 2012 II. T/8595 on the repeal of certain provisions of Law T/8595 on the need to decriminalise public life-style residence. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Defence Committee. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First, I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, the rapporteur of the proposal, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-11-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Two years have passed since the amendment of the Violation Act; this was the amendment in which the pro-government majority of the Parliament criminalised living in the public area. [[17.20]] This means that you would collect 50,000 forints from people who can barely afford food. Punishment phases were also provided for: these people can be taken to community service, they can receive fines for having no home, and they can be locked away because they have no place to live. The message from the party side was clear. But the question is, how does that make homeless people home? Yet, how does this law help people who have lost the lid above their heads to have safe housing? How will this law reduce the risk of people becoming poor, losing their jobs, not being able to pay their rent, and staying without a roof? How does this law make it better for anyone in Hungary? We see that the government's housing policy is clear. They focus mostly on the upper class of housing policy. There is the CSOK, in which millions of forints can be obtained, whereas the poorest have, for example, a temporary home for families or a homeless shelter, but there is no social housing program, there is no home-building support, there is no spending on grants that can help people who are not doing well in today's Hungary. But spending money, for example, has been spent by the government, opening an infringement office where homeless people can be created. We know of 76 people in three years who have been produced in a special production room that costs HUF 24 million a year to maintain; in the last three years, it has resulted in HUF 72 million for the government. However, they obviously knew almost nothing about the fines. We know 500 cases that you have initiated proceedings, but it is quite clear that this programme cannot operate economically, in addition to being morally completely unacceptable. Of these 24 million forints a year spent to maintain such a production facility, hundreds of homeless people would also benefit from 20,000 forints of housing per year, which could also maintain an average social housing. I think that everyone would have been much better off if this money had been spent on what it was for: help and not regulation, support and not punishment. And as I said, for the poorest, there's the chao, the temporary home for families, and the homeless shelters, but let's look at the statistics: currently, according to available databases, there's room for 11,000 people in the homeless shelters. According to the KENYSZI database, in one week about 20,000 people turned to the homelessness system in 2014. That means there are so many homeless people at the same time. There's other stats, same thing from KENYZI. There are 40,000 people registered at least once in homeless care. And these, I'm talking about, are 2014 figures. Since then, the situation has not improved at all, and since then the situation, let us say it boldly, has deteriorated. According to the Possibly Other Politics, the path out of homelessness and housing problems must be found. This Parliament's task is not to make laws that punish those who have nothing, but to make laws that make it easier for those who are born into worse fates, to whom life has not given them as privileged ones. Therefore, we have proposed and proposed that, since we are in Parliament, there should be individualised and complex assistance, support and not punish, and that there is a particular role to be played by the rent-apartment programme. You should see that the May Other Politics has already pushed for social housing agencies to include existing vacant dwellings in the system. We would have created a 20 billion-dollar fund from which to apply so that the family or the person who would be left without home would be able to start. These measures have not been taken by you, but this amendment to the Code of Violations, which I am now asking you to abolish, remains. This legislation has brought nothing that would have been acceptable and good. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm asking you to turn back from this road.
u2016-04-11-194	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, the speeches made in writing will follow. The first of the MSZP group is to speak to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-11-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, The Fidesz-KDNP government wants the homeless to disappear from Hungary today in the same way as the EMMI did in a circular with its own institutions, when it wanted to prohibit the use of certain concepts and words, and thus it thought that if these words and concepts were forbidden, then those problems would be eliminated: say, using the word "poor" or the word "hospitality" itself, pregnant... - those words could be mentioned. With this regulation, it was thought that if homeless people are banned from certain areas or public areas, this problem would be eliminated in Hungary. But what can we expect from the party whose dictionary does not contain the word mercy? We saw that today. Members who claim to be Christians, today a news portal says that one of the Fidesz MEPs, to quote the news portal, has entered into Pope Francis. What do we expect when Christian people feel that they share positions on Facebook? Don't expect anything else from them. I think that every Member has received letters in recent days to support the LMP initiative. The Hungarian Socialist Party naturally supports this initiative, and today, when we came into Parliament, I hope that you have accepted from these people the keys that have been handed over to us. Two keys with a few thoughts; one of the keys was written, "If you open your heart, open it." A lot of loving hearts will open. And the other, to remain with you in religion, has a quote from the Gospel of Luke:. The One to whom much has been given is much desired, and the One to whom much has been entrusted [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They're asking for more than that. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Members of the Council, we will be asked to take account of the laws that we are voting on in this Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-11-196	From the Jobbik Group, Mr Sebestyén, who edits, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We agree with the rapporteur that this law, in its current form, is of no value, because there are three options. Either he pays the fine, we know very well that this is impossible in the case of a homeless person; or he works it off in public work, but the people we call street dwellers in internal professional jargon within the homeless, who are actually living in a public area, are already in a stage of resocialization that it is impossible to process public work with them. They may even be happy that they are in a heated place for a few days, and then they return to the same public area, almost an inch, exactly the same place, and continue the same activity, that is to say, living in a public area. We agree that this system does not work that way. But with the ideology itself and with the intention of presenting this proposal, we do not agree, and we will therefore abstain from voting on the series of subjects. I'll tell you why. As we have said, we categorize the so-called street dwellers within homeless persons. We know very well that this is a fraction of the homeless, the homeless, but what is the spectacular part of the homeless. Most homeless people do not even notice society, because if they use the institutions of homeless care, or if they go to work from there, they cannot be distinguished from a roof, a person with an apartment, who uses one of the forms of homeless care. We know very well that when the Fidesz-KDNP government introduced this provision, it changed the law on non-compliance so that it had nothing else to do with it but to campaign. He wanted to be nice to his voters who were disturbed by the fact that certain public areas, or playgrounds, could not be used. [[17 .30]] The solution is to make these people [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Since they are already in a state of illness - one moment, I will finish it, Mr President, thank you very much - they are in the process of resocialization, they should be returned to society with the help of a doctor, a health professional or a mental health professional. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-11-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Ikotity is coming from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-199	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, The proposal of the LMP concerning the amendment of the Violation Act has been made twice by Lajos Kósa's National Defence and Police Committee. On both occasions, the Fidesz majority of the committee swept off our motion in extremely unworthy circumstances, which would end the persecution of homeless people. As my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, said in the introduction, there was no positive benefit of punishing homelessness. They may have been able to squeeze homeless people out of the neighborhoods or underpasses of tourists, and they have appeared in larger numbers in other districts and outer districts. The experience of the outskirts of Budapest confirms this. Overall, the problem has not been eased. We think, and since 2010, what the Constitutional Court has repeatedly confirmed since then, I quote:. Homelessness is a social problem that the state must deal with with the means of social administration, social care, and not with punishment. In addition, there have been general rules on the purity of public areas or on certain issues of coexistence that have been used to combat possible disruptors, but the punishment for homelessness as a life situation follows a completely different logic. The main goal of the homelessness policy of the Fidesz-KDNP is to eliminate the problem: do not let homeless people be in front of them. Of course, we're not saying it would've been much better before. The complex programs looking for ways out were never available before. The logic of large-scale homeless care, which basically means having a place to sleep, is nothing new or even a new thing. The latter has increased significantly by introducing criminality. The solution to the problem of homelessness must be rethinked fundamentally. The starting point for this is the LMP proposal, i.e. the abolition of criminality.
u2016-04-11-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if any other factions who still have the opportunity to do so want to speak. [[For signal:]] Member Miklós Simon asked for the floor from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-201	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fundamental Law states that the creation of decent housing conditions can also be supported by the state and local authorities by seeking accommodation for all homeless people. It also states that a law or a decree of a local government may, in order to protect public policy, public security, public health and cultural values, render public residence in a way of life illegal for a specific part of the public territory. On the basis of this authorisation, the infringement law has also been amended and the rules on public residence in the public life-style have been infringed. This unlawfulness can only be established if the public residence in the public territory designated by the local government in accordance with the law is carried out as a way of life, and the person concerned does not voluntarily leave the designated public area at the request of the representatives of the infringement authorities. The facts therefore specify the conditions for establishing the liability for infringements and indicate the public area to be protected. Regulation supports the resolution of the housing and social crisis by making use of individual social support and services [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] encourages people in need. In this respect, we do not support the proposal.
u2016-04-11-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mrs Bernadett Szél as rapporteur if she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett nodds.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-11-203	Thank you very much. The thing is, I was expecting a little more champagne debate from the government side than we got at the end here. In any case, let me start by thanking you for your words of support. I'm glad there are still people in Parliament who understand what we're talking about. I think that I should not only thank you for this on my own behalf, but also on behalf of the civil society organisation and homeless activists in the gallery. I would also like to point out that we did not ask for this bill in plenary for a reason. We wanted to go beyond the state that came out of the Defense Committee, so that the votes of three of the sagging Fidesz colleagues depended on this important law. I think that tomorrow, 199 Members must confess to what the homeless people think about the persecution of the worst, speak for themselves. I must add, once again, this is a serious injustice. It is neither reasonable nor fair that if someone has nothing, then I will punish him because he has nothing or has no prospect of doing anything about it. I told you in black and white that even homeless shelters don't have enough room for people who need help. And I would also like to add that homeless shelters are not the answer. I do not know how you, my honourable Members of Parliament, would feel if you had to live in these circumstances and then go to work. I've met a lot of homeless people in the last few months, and I think there's no way this could be a solution. We need social housing. You should have created situations during your last six years of government that are a way out of poverty, but you have done nothing but stigmatize these people and give them cause to be vexed; you have been given legal authority to harass these people. But the lesson is clear: just because we don't see something or see someone doesn't mean there's a problem, and that person is still in the same situation as he was. Why weren't you working on this, my honourable members of the government? Be nice tomorrow. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Listen to your common sense, listen to the moral side of this story, and press yes. Although I don't know how much of a moral question you've been pushing for the last six years. I must admit, that's not what I've experienced from you.
u2016-04-11-204	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/8131 amendment of individual laws to ensure freedom of expression. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Harangozó, one of the authors, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This year, the first information and freedom of speech law was adopted 250 years ago. The Finns and the Swedes, by the way, have launched an entire year's programme, you have the right to know, you have the right to talk about it! It's an address. Dear fellow Members, Hungarian legislation is also celebrating. You have the right to know, in a category of international competition, there will surely be a special prize in the Hungarian National Bank's fundraiser law or part of the fundamental law amendment concerning the occupation of editorial offices. However, Fidesz politicians have surpassed all parliamentary initiatives by trying to suppress the growing criticism with cowardly intimidation dressed in criminal proceedings. If a person confronts them on a case that seems opaque or corrupt, or only shares the writings with such content, they will be prosecuted by the laws currently in force. This, fellow Members, is worse than censorship, because under this procedure mayors and Members are given special protection, they do not have to hire lawyers; the police are investigating, the prosecution represents the charge, and we are paying for it with public money. And the accused citizen is simply abducted as if he had committed a serious crime. The MSZP has therefore submitted a proposal for an amendment of the law, the essence of which is that no one can be accused of giving an opinion in public matters, or sharing that opinion with others, as well as in a country that is normally functioning. [[17.40]] In Hungary, however, six years since the government of Fidesz [[Ancient Novak: What was it in 2006?]] There are no normal conditions. In a normally functioning country, it would not be possible for a politician involved in suspicious real estate cases to sue those who share his article on Facebook. In a normally functioning country, it is not possible to kidnap the dividers of the article for what they have done. This was also the case in Hungary: Árpád Balázs, the fallen mayor of Siófok, simply denounced those who shared a paper about the fact that the politician sold a very well-placed municipal property at suspiciously cheap prices. Dear fellow Members, If a Facebook sharing involves prosecution and abductment, it means that freedom of speech has ceased in Hungary, moreover, the Siófok case is not alone, it is not an isolated phenomenon: Sümegen, Tatan and many other places have been or are still happening. The MSZP struggles with every means to make this deformed fidesz thinking disappear, it is unacceptable for cowardly politicians to intimidate people in a mean way. We have tabled this amendment proposal so that no one can be humiliated or intimidated on this legal basis anymore. No power can suppress free opinions or threaten to prosecute people who form critical opinions. For six years, we have been accustomed to systematically trying to make free opinions impossible. That is why there is a media law that compels journalists to self-censor themselves, which is why they tried to introduce the Internet tax, which is why they made a Fidesz party propaganda out of public media, which is why they are trying to intimidate free opinion makers, and this was also the purpose of the amendment of the Fundamental Law on editorials. All serious violations, my fellow Members, but the country where the debate on public affairs is threatened with criminal proceedings is simply not a democracy! And my honourable fellow Members, the Member who, by rejecting our proposal, maintains the legislative possibility by which the cowardly politicians of Árpád Balázs terrorize citizens, is itself an enemy of democracy and free expression. Since I believe that there are no such Members in this House, I am counting on your unanimous support for tomorrow's series of articles. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-11-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, the speeches made in writing will follow. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there is a lot of good things in this bill, but while we are at it, I would like to say that my MSZP fellow Member has stood here in a huge speech on freedom of speech and what a reduction in freedom of speech there has been in the last six years. We agree with what you said, but there is only one problem: it was exactly the same before, only then I understand others the same insults, we got it then, and not only freedom of expression, freedom of expression, but also the right to demonstrate on the street, or the right to unite, and we could list what we did in socialist governments. [[Dóra Dúró: That's right!]] , after 2006, there was a considerable need to suffer. So let's add that when we're talking about this case. It is true, however, that the use of the D.A.'s office in Hungary as a means of intimidation is disgusting and not chivalrous at all. Of course, politics is certainly not about that, but I think that in this case this law, paragraph, should be amended, and there is no need to intimidate people even in this form. What does it mean for an ordinary citizen to be imprisoned? It will obviously cause an extremely humiliating situation for a respected person, and it will be extremely humiliating for them to drag his name into criminal proceedings, and his future may depend on criminal proceedings against him. To abuse this, this prosecutor's office may in certain cases - where, by the way, a person could ask for a private initiative to be held accountable, but in this case, he will be placed in a privileged position, and the prosecution will represent him as a public prosecutor. We think this is wrong, and therefore this section of the law should be amended. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr Schiffer András Group leader. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-04-11-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out that, of course, we are in favour of inclusion in the series, if it is there, then obviously also the final vote. We do this in conjunction with the fact that, on principle, the LMP itself has already attacked the criminal category of slander and defamation. We do this with the Ptk. in his debate, we were already demanding a more circumstantial definition of the public figure. And we're doing this because we know exactly what the Btk is. And the Be. The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union have held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has not acted in accordance with the law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the application of the law of the Court of Justice of the European Union to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We do support you despite the fact that, under your governance, between 2002 and 2010, you have been making constant attacks on political freedoms. Between 2003 and 2009, and until today, no account has been taken of, there has been a continuous sweep of the assembly law by the police of your government. [[Dóra Dúró: That's right!]] All you did before 2010 was try to deal with your political problems in court and in criminal trials. It's the last thing we need to face. I believe there's a rhinoceros skin that can handle everything, and you've been doing this shift for 25 years, and you've had a radically different position in opposition than in government. Obviously, we will also live to see the day when the Fidesz opposition will demand a similar bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Gergely Bárándy is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If Congressman Schiffer thinks back on the past of the TSA that we discussed on this subject, then he knows that my opinion on this subject has not changed a bit: I am saying the same thing now and I am saying the same thing. We are talking about freedom of speech, and not about anything else, at least that is what this law contains. You know very well, Mr President, that I am not a fan of unlimited freedom of speech, and in order to protect human dignity, I do consider freedom of speech to be limited either in order to protect the human dignity of communities, or in order to protect individuals, and by criminal means. That's what the debate is about, so I'd leave the slander and defamation in it and leave it in the Btk. as well as hate speech, Holocaust denial and other similar crimes. That is not the case, honourable Member. It is about the fact that the government has now reduced the criticism of public figures over the past period; not the ordinary people, not the ordinary citizens, not the communities, but the public figures. Public actors were given the right to represent them in these proceedings; they were given the right to carry out evidence in a significantly narrower court in the case of a private individual, while in the case of public actors, the prosecutor's office is imprisoning, confiscating, locking up, and the rest, i.e. they have the same licenses as in the case of public prosecutions. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is not that anything has changed in our position. We say that in the case of public figures, a very broad criticism should be the primary objective of the state, while in the case of individuals the primary objective should be to keep human dignity in mind. This proposal contains this and is therefore supported by our faction. Once again, I would like to say that we have been on the same subject for 10 years, 15 years. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Vas Imre is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The bill concerns three points. On the one hand, it intends to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure at a point mentioned here by my fellow Member, Barándy. Even when I studied criminal proceedings, officials were to be prosecuted, and I believe that when my fellow Member Bárándy studied criminal proceedings, that was the case. [[17.50]] In its 1994 decision, the Constitutional Court took the view that there was no objection to the difference in the assessment of offences committed against officials, i.e. that criminal proceedings should be prosecuted and that the prosecution would be represented by the prosecutor during the proceedings. The other wants to amend the Code of Penalty in terms of defamation and personality rights in the Ptk. 2. § 44. In our view, both the Criminal Code and the Civil Code comply with constitutional provisions, strike the right balance with regard to the criticism of officials, politicians, Members of Parliament and mayors, and adequately defend their rights as individuals. In our view, the regulation is appropriate and there is no need to amend it, so we do not recommend the inclusion of the bill in the series of articles. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-11-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask the authors if they'd like to answer. [[Gábor Bellozó: Yes.]] This means that Congressman Gábor Harangozó will respond on behalf of the authors. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-11-215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to turn to my fellow Member Schiffer and Jobbik. To tell you the truth, I don't know what kind of losses you've mentioned in the past socialist period. [[Dr. Vas Imre: It was so much!]] I wasn't a politician at the time, and I didn't even live in Hungary. That's why I don't want to talk about that part. If there were such a thing, it is a very shameful and problem, and that is also a reason if you have complained that we are amending this law, because it gives us the opportunity for anyone to abuse it - I stress: anyone - to abuse it. One thing I can tell you is that ever since my colleague was reported by this mayor in this case, he's been taken in and imprisoned, he hasn't had the guts to share anything on Facebook. Are you sure this is the country you want? A country where citizens are afraid that if they share an innocent article that criticizes the activities of any public figure, he can be accused, brought in, fingerprinted, photographed and humiliated by the D.A.'s office? Do you think that's acceptable? My fellow Member, Imre Vas, can you accept that your fellow Members and mayors threaten ordinary Hungarian citizens that if someone describes what corruption cases the gangster has done and dares to share, they will be abducted? Ladies and gentlemen, this is not normal. This is not a normal country that you have created, this is an inoperable semi-dictatorship in which these laws are constantly being abused. And if you do not allow us to change this rule, then you are not only accomplices, but you are also part of this filth. I find the position that you represent unacceptable.
u2016-04-11-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the 2013 CCXXXVIII on the referendum procedure. T/9476. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr József Tobias, the rapporteur of the proposal, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-04-11-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is an actuality that we have proposed a series of requests for amendments to the law on referendums. It is clear that, over the past year and a half, bad regulation, bad Fundamental Law, bad law and bad practice have left behind the professional autonomy of the institutions, and they have already introduced regulations that have long since exceeded the legal framework. And it is clear from the decisions made in recent months that both the National Election Committee and the Curia are adopting an interpretation of the rules on the legal institution of the referendum, which is unduly narrow, restrictive, not only self-contradictive, which is in fact contrary to previous constitutional practice, which will in fact lead to an emptying of participatory democracy. The bill we have tabled has three objectives: to clarify the requirements for referendum issues, to define the rules of procedure of the referendum and to protect the legal institution of the referendum. The objective of the proposal is to specify the legal requirement for clarity of referendum issues. Today's practice is about a hat, because if it doesn't have a hat on it, because if the question is presented from one side in accordance with the common language, it considers it offensive to the requirement of legislative clarity, and if it turns around and is legally precise, it contains all the legislation, but it will not be clear to the voter in particular, and the National Election Committee can prevent the collection of signatures on this issue. I therefore believe, first of all, that the question should be very, very citizen-centric, with sound thinking, that it should be clear to him on what issue he intends to collect the initial signatures, and that the legislator should then establish the legislation in law or abolish legislation that naturally arises from it. The other issue is a narrowing of the legislative barriers to the referendum, as at the moment, both the NVB and the Curia have adopted an extension interpretation of the limits of the powers of the Parliament and of the prohibited subjects, on the basis of which the initiative of the referendum on substantive social policy or economic issues is essentially excluded. Finally, but not least, the repeal of the current absurd regulation on parallel referendum initiatives, and in order to order a referendum, it is necessary to set up a moratorium on parallelity. Accordingly, a referendum initiative on the same subject should be ordered by collecting signatures and a referendum on the issue where any of the initiators on the grounds of parallelity can submit the necessary number of recommendations. This regulation makes a prerogative, in addition to a kind of competition neutrality, for issues with strong social support, to be able to hold a referendum on real issues in Hungary. However, from the current legislation, due to its lack of competence, it appears that the otherwise unqualified National Election Office now has rules in place that in itself call into question the validity of the law on the current referendum in force, that no referendum initiative has been able to take place in the last year and a half in relation to the law in force adopted by you. Not a single one! Where the permission of NAIB has been requested, where all blocking clocks are not requested, God does not know under what regulations, while the enforcement legislation states who will carry out the validation, where he will carry out it, who has the seal, if he knocks it down, is the so-called motion received. Compared to this, the media smiles, and rightly so, whether or not the blocking device placed in the middle of the circle will solve this problem. You have made the wrong law, fellow Members. This is an opportunity to be a law that supports the real participation of voters without having to impose physical or administrative barriers on them. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-11-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. [[18.00]] First, the speeches made in writing will follow. First, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-11-219	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, it is a politically very hot and topical subject. The issue of the regulation of the referendum has also been focused on the events at NTI in recent weeks. It may not be more relevant than it is today to discuss this issue. After all, following the announcement by Antal Rogán, we know that the rules on closing hours on Sunday will change. The whole issue therefore has a political dimension and a professional dimension. Mr. Fraction Manager placed the emphasis on the second in the expo, but it must be said that few legislative proposals or changes to regulation have as juicy a cause as this. After all, what happened at NTI was one of the highlights of the last 25 democracies. I do not have the opportunity to go into the parts that triggered the professional debate right now, since the faction has only two minutes to express its opinion. It is possible to talk about the restrictive interpretation of bans, the lowering of local thresholds, which we agree with all of them, of course. I see the role of NAIH a little differently than the faction leader here has been talking about. The abolition of the moratorium is obvious to everyone now that it is necessary. So they're all eligible. Therefore, the inclusion of the bill itself in the series of articles will be supported by the Jobbik Group in the vote. At the same time, there are detailed rules that we do not agree with. Parallelly, this is the proposal of the Ministry of Justice, where we will really be able to talk about these professional issues. At the same time, there is a huge lack of both the Ministry of Justice's proposal and of this proposal that the five-party consultation that the LMP called for and unfortunately the socialists did not participate, although Fidesz also came, so we have dealt with a number of issues which would require much more substantive changes, much more important, in-depth changes, which are neither proposed by the Ministry of Justice nor included in this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-04-11-220	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for your work so far, and I would like to give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Head of Group, by handing over the Presidency to Vice-President István Hiller. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-04-11-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Presidents, Dear Parliament, Of course, we support the inclusion of the legislative proposal in the subject series, all the more so, because the current situation is unsustainable, and I also think that the socialist fellow Members have made forward-looking proposals in detail. I would like to add that, and I will be interested in the opinion of my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, that they really mean that the problem is solved with this announcement. You really don't feel that it's a high-level national security risk in a country when a government party is in close contact with thugs as closely as it turned out in the NTI scandal? As far as the content is concerned, it is true, as my fellow Member Dóra Dúró said, that LMP had already initiated a multi-party consultation after the NVI scandal, and then, after that, partly because of Fidesz and partly because of the socialists, we submitted our own bill. I would like to mention four questions that are not included in this bill, which are included in our bill. One is the conflict of interest or status of the NVB members, so there is no justification for this long-term mandate, and one is the restoration of the popular initiative, one is the facilitation of local referendums and one is the clarification of the campaign conditions of the referendum. The shame that occurred in the 2004, 2008 or even in the EU and NATO accession referendums should never happen again, where there were no correct conditions for presenting all positions. And while the socialists here are talking about precisely, narrowly defining budget and taxation issues, I can't help but not mention it, turn back to 2007-2008: who were the sharpest against all budgetary issues, and what is not possible in the privateization of visitation fees, hospital allowances, or social security, according to those who told by the then socialist-free Democrat government, couldn't order a referendum? That is why we need to clarify this provision now. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2016-04-11-222	Thank you very much. Welcome. We will continue our work with the speech of Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. I would like to remind you that you have two minutes.
u2016-04-11-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fraction Manager has given us the professional arguments for which we would like to ask for the support of this law. I would also like to say a few words about the political background. First of all, we're used to the fact that Mr. Schiffer hits Fidesz on the one hand and hits us on the other. But I would like to remind you that all that happened at the time was that a law in force was being interpreted by experts, not that anyone wanted to change the law on the referendum so that it was not possible to vote on things that could otherwise have been voted on earlier. Everyone knows that, and I think I just need to remember what happened on that ominous day in front of the National Election Office. There, the current power has crossed a line that has been truly unprecedented. It was unprecedented because the fact that a criminal group, bald people, linked to the power in the exercise of the right to referendum, would prevent a person from giving up his referendum initiative is unprecedented in the history of Hungarian democracy. This is what happened at the National Election Office, and these people were directly linked to one of the Vice-Presidents of Fidesz. Unfortunately, these are facts that cannot be altered. Fidesz also felt that it could no longer do anything else, because, at the pressure of the public, it had to do something on this subject, so it submitted a proposal on this subject, which is correct, but on the other hand it has to be seen that there are significantly bigger and more serious problems in this area, which, by the way, was also mentioned by Mr Schiffer, Dóra Dúró. So we are proposing a more complex regulation and, of course, we will also consider supporting any further proposals from the LMP. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-04-11-224	Thank you very much. Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz!
u2016-04-11-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We do not support the inclusion of the submitted bill in the series of articles, which is essentially because the government has submitted a proposal to amend the law on referendum procedure No 9894, and the proposal aims to significantly mitigate the moratorium on submission. In the case of an electoral initiative, it is possible to submit a question on the same subject, in accordance with this rule, until another question has been submitted... - according to the proposed amendment, i.e. submitted by the government, until the decision of the National Election Committee on the existence of an adequate number of valid signatures on another issue of the same subject is final. In other words, it is possible to submit a new question according to the government's proposal until the signatures have been certified by the National Election Committee on one of the same issues, i.e. an appropriate number. In our view, the government's proposal regulates the problems that have arisen more complexly and fully. I ask my fellow Members to support the Government's proposal, of course there will be a five-party consultation. Thank you for listening. [[Dóra Dúró: It was great.]]
u2016-04-11-226	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak, Honourable Parliament. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. I would like to ask Mr Tobias, speaking on behalf of the authors, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not know if my fellow Member Vas has looked at our current agenda, but we are talking about the opposition's application for a series of articles, not the government's. I know he doesn't mind because the laptop can't change that fast, he can read what's written there. But I would also like to say that the basic problem is there, since you are already asking yourself that you want to push a bad regulation into a social will now, because it is embarrassing for you to accept that there is no investigation, you should do something with the law, and you are only doing worse - I would say. So the basic problem is that the starting point is wrong. It may not be a complete initiative by any party of the opposition to the House that it should be amended, but I am sure that the aim and direction are that voters should have the right to decide on matters of their own destiny. [[18.10]] Overall, I think that if the parties that want to define themselves in the future keep pointing back into the past, constantly pointing back, they will lose the compass so that they go forward, because the authentication is there what one says and puts on the table. This is today, 2016 and 2016. I understand that their political premission is that in the past they may gain authentication, but that will be difficult, because between 2007 and 2009 they were not in the Parliament, and today we are writing 2016. At the same time, I can say that a policy that is able to give the right, taking into account the social will, to say against a decision by the electorate, that it is wrong does not mean that the government should fail in the future. But what's going on right now is that they're pretending to act and there's no real change, and that means that, along with all the opposition initiatives, the legislative amendment imposed by the government will do the same thing that it has done over the past year and a half. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-228	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Development Bank's 2011 XX. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/9783. The Commission's non-autonomous text is available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Lászlóné Németh, if she wishes to speak now.
u2016-04-11-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to reiterate the request that I have put forward in the opening form, and we have presented to you that with this proposal Hungarofest will be removed from the Annex to the Hungarian Development Bank Act, where we will provide a list of companies in its management from time to time. If this is deleted from here, it will give the Hungarian National Asset Manager the opportunity to take over the company's asset management rights from us, to decide whether the company intends to maintain the company in the future and to entrust it with another task, or to initiate the winding-up of the company. According to the current legislation, the Hungarian Development Bank cannot do this, so that is why this step is necessary. On the last occasion, Mr László Szakács asked the question and raised the question: he would like to know a little more, the MSZP would like to know about the company in order to be able to make the right decision. Well, I've had my colleagues draw up a list of tasks that Hungarofest has performed over the past few years, the tasks already performed by the Ministry of Defence's work organisation in 2015 instead of Hungarofest. Accordingly, while Hungarofest started its 2015 year with a total of 20 people, it was reduced to 9 people in the summer, and now to 3 people in the year. So, according to the way the tasks ran out - even the last task that marked the year 2015 for the company - ended in December, which was, by the way, a series of tasks related to the German-Hungarian friendship commemorative year - the accounting took place, and so, with these three employees, we intend to hand the company over to the trustee. If you wish, I can make this relatively long list, but I believe that it is known to everyone because of the tasks that Hungarofest has performed in the past period. I would like to highlight just a few of these: the day of Hungarian culture, the anniversary of the 1848-49 revolution and the war of independence, the commemoration day of the victims of the Holocaust in Hungary, the day of national solidarity, the celebration of St. Stephen the Founder of State, the Memorial Day of the martyrs of Arad and the anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. I could name it yet, but I think that from these, it was a significant task, an important task, but now it is the decision that the government made in June 2014 to move the task to the Ministry of Defence, the company is empty, so it doesn't make sense to maintain it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-11-230	Thank you very much. I'll inform you that you have six and a half minutes if you feel the need to tell the closing. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, in two minutes, please.
u2016-04-11-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarofest - I can't put it any other way - is suffering and now it's about its failure. So the transformation process you were talking about is actually this. There is a rethink of the state's tasks of tourism, if we interpret this story well, and this will take place within the framework of a new agency, with a lot of things, whether it is centralising, unifying the use of resources, or branding, and all other issues. The starting question could obviously be what László Szakács said earlier, why this was not done by transforming Hungarofest and by eliminating it, because it would have been possible and possible. It is a state-owned company, MFB Zrt. practice, exercise ownership rights in the case of Hungarofest. This is something the government intends to liquidate, and then the company intends to terminate with an annulment. So this is the current situation, at least as far as I can see. Tourism, as I said, intends to establish a new agency within the framework of the Ministry of National Development, i.e. under its supervision, in terms of re-regulation of its tasks, both in terms of resource use, brand and other matters. Once again, why don't you do it by remodeling Hungarofest? After all, the Hungarian Development Bank went from the Ministry of National Development to the Prime Minister's Office just last year. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. President?
u2016-04-11-232	I rang the bell. Go ahead. [[Defiance.]]
u2016-04-11-233	Thank you very much. I just didn't know what the story was about.
u2016-04-11-234	I can ring that bell.
u2016-04-11-235	Thank you very much. That makes perfect sense. So I'll continue the line. The spectacular failure of Hungarofest Kft., as I said, has occurred together with the involvement of countless management companies in recent years. The government's duties have fallen spectacularly. Not the duties of the government, the tasks of the Hungarofest itself have fallen spectacularly. In 2015, if my memories weren't cheating, then the Fireworks were organized directly by the Ministry of Defence. But I don't know if that's the way it's supposed to be, if that's not what customary and experience has been supporting. But there was certainly a reason for that, too. With regard to the abolition: here in relation to the former ideas, Madam Secretary, I do not even ask what costs this transformation process will entail, the termination and the creation of a new one, as you mentioned that only 3 people are affected by the story, who will continue their activities within the framework of the new agency. But I can ask you again why you didn't do all this by confirming and transforming Hungarofest. It's simply not because there have been so many failures, so many disappointments along the way, I'm telling you, in addition to the use of the various managements mentioned, or why? In fact, there is a question on the subject of the future, and perhaps it is worth seeking the answer from the Secretary of State in the six minutes that the rethinking of the cafeteria system due as of 1 January 2017 will also have a significant impact on the state's tasks in relation to tourism. [[18.20]] We're not that far away, we need to be visible about how, where the processes are going to develop. It would be appropriate to have some confirmation thoughts in this regard. Even so that a multitude of confirmatory information is available so that it can be considered at all in relation to the development of the relationship. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you, with great respect, that the not too difficult, rather, I would like to say that it is in simple terms that you should be kind enough to provide confirmation answers. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-11-236	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframe. Congressman János Volner, Jobbik, please.
u2016-04-11-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I have already indicated at the previous meeting, Jobbik puts the initiatives on organisational change within the sphere of government competence, including what Minister has brought to us. And I would like to thank you for responding substantially to the questions raised by your Members at the previous meeting, as you have given these answers in your previous exposure. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-238	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you again if anyone else wants to speak. I'm gonna say no. Madam Secretary, if you wish to reflect, you have six and a half minutes.
u2016-04-11-239	Thank you very much for the word again. I said it the previous time, and I would like to repeat it again, the decision that the Ministry of Defence will carry out the task of public holidays was born in the summer of 2014. The choice of a new system for tourism, tourism-related tasks, is the result of a very recent decision in 2016. So, the fact that the settlement of state celebrations in 2016 was avoided by Hungarofest has to do with what has been decided this summer on the organisational set-up for tourism is really not. What I said the previous time, and I can only repeat myself, by getting the company out of the annex to the MFB Act, opens up two options. This is the task and competence of the National Asset Manager to decide whether he can use it, to use it in the public corporate system, what is the license of Hungarofest, because we are actually talking about driving licenses today, as I told you, only three people are working there, obviously they can also use their professional experience, but they want to use the existing company, the company name, the related licenses, or not, they can decide that. If not, then it is their job to start the winding-up, which is obviously to be done until the period without the order results in losses that make the winding-up impossible. And what government decisions have been and will be taken in the near future in relation to the tourism sector and to the various aids associated with it, let me draw your attention here to the fact that this is not the competence of the Prime Minister's Office, nor if I look at the tourist line, nor if it is the organisation of events related to public institutions. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-240	Thank you very much. As I have just concluded the debate, I will now inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. The Commission's report on the amendment of Act X of 2006 on cooperatives follows a debate. Member Kristóf Szatmáry, Fidesz, submitted by T/9715. The Commission's non-autonomous text is available on the Parliament's IT network. I'm going to ask the rapporteur, Mr Parliament, if he would like to speak now. Congressman says no. You have 10 minutes in case of closure if you wish to use it. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak now. Secretary of State says not this time. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. There will now be speeches by Members within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-241	Thank you very much. As we said last week, the bill was considered positive for students and students, and we will therefore support the proposal. But I asked you this question again last week, and I am trying to see if I can find a reassuring answer to that question - because I would be more relaxed and I think that the students would be, too - that we could see from your ranks a few months ago, in Lajos Kósa's same independent motion that Mt. He wanted to take out the students working in the school cooperative, which would have lost the possibility of sickness and leave. Fortunately, it was then that common sense won in this respect, and our fellow Member withdrew this proposal, since the rights of these students must not be undermined. And I hope, too, Kristóf Szatmáry, that if he stands in favour of the rights of students now and gives us the opportunity to adopt the practice in this bill, he will stand up even when there will be another such motion of representatives. And I hope that the Ministry will also stand on this issue by saying that students are the most important, that their rights are the most important, and that these rights cannot be undermined, even if there are school associations who would support this. After all, it is possible to feel that there are proposals of support. There are 200,000 students who study, who work near school, and about 10 percent of those who work alongside the school in the context of higher education. I think that your current proposal is fully acceptable, because if you are doing the right job, then, of course, why shouldn't it be accepted as a practice for them, since these students have mandatory practice. Please do not undermine your rights, such suggestions, tell your fellow Members that they do not need to submit, because it is better for everyone not to do this type, but to do what Lajos Kósa has done, not to be submitted, it is better not to be written down, because then it is not possible to read on your head that anyone has thought to undermine the rights of students. Thank you.
u2016-04-11-242	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak, but as you wish, I will give it to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-243	Thank you very much. But before I begin, Mr President, I will reassure my colleague, Mr Korózs, that day will also end with the next item on the agenda. The point here is...
u2016-04-11-244	Thank you very much for helping me lead the meeting, and I will confirm that there will be a next item on the agenda, and you will now deal with this.
u2016-04-11-245	Thank you very much. In addition to the item on the agenda, the importance of operating practical training sites and training sites is essential. If we seriously consider how, under what conditions, young people are coming out of the labour market, whether they are young people coming out of the framework of the secondary education institution or from higher education, then there must be no question that there are practical places that provide the basic condition and background for these young people to gain adequate knowledge of work experience. Now, in this sense, this draft law, which seeks to strengthen the background condition for school cooperatives, which, in relation to the availability of these training places for those who have not yet been able to prove their place of practice, ensures this, I think, is okay. School cooperatives were not, or could not be, subject to, evidence of professional practice, while according to the Labour Code, it was possible to bring to life relationships under fixed-term contracts, and the members of the school cooperatives themselves were practically related to the school cooperative themselves and were available as a kind of employee. [[18.30]] These cooperatives, in turn, could conclude contracts with the employer's face and sphere of the world of work, whether for commission or for business. The fundamental problem and problem arose from the fact that there were tens of thousands, about twenty thousand young people in the higher education system, who were involved in the story through the school cooperative, with employee rights, and this type of activity was not recognised as a practical activity in the past. What we do know is that when finals are passed, however, the basic principle is that the certification of traineeships must be carried out. If you don't have it, technically you can't pass the final exam. So this is about ensuring this background condition. There was, and there is, a significant obstacle to this issue, and this is that the Education Office itself, who registers a multitude of professional training places, declares as a practical training facility, in the presence of certain marginal conditions, for people employed or employed within their framework. The vast majority of Hungarian micro- and small enterprises, but rather micro-enterprises, cannot fully meet these educational limits. In addition, it can provide opportunities as a practical training site, as a place of work experience, and as a number of them. Therefore, what we are talking about is important, i.e. that within the framework of the school cooperative, work activities carried out by the school cooperative and work experience acquisition activities can also form part of a recognised practical activity, because, as I said, it is possible for tens of thousands of young people participating in higher education to have access to the final exams in a accessible manner. That's about it, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Satmary, if he wishes to speak. [[On the signal of Kristóf Szatmáry:]] Here you go.
u2016-04-11-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to comment on the length of the debate. I would also like to thank my fellow Members and the Government for their positive and supportive contribution to this amending proposal. I am pleased to understand that it was not clear at the expozee, when it was said, whether the MSZP was in favour of this proposal or not, but it has now become clear that it supports the proposal in this form as well. I trust that there is indeed a common interest here, and this is indeed a help for nearly 15-20 thousand students studying in Hungarian higher education, which gives them the opportunity to perform an easier internship, given the government's same intention to make it as much better and easier for students to work here in Hungary as possible. I think there are more goals to be achieved here. I think that with this proposal, if the Parliament can support it in the course of tomorrow, we can really take a step forward for young people in higher education who want to work and who can. Thank you very much for your support, and I would like to ask you to support it with your vote tomorrow. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-11-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain social and child protection legislation and the legislation on the benefits of persons with disabilities and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/9635. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, For the first time in the debate, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented by Mr Gergely Tapolczai, within a maximum period of 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-249	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee discussed T/9635 on 7 April 2016. a proposal to amend certain social and child protection legislation and legislation concerning the benefits of persons with disabilities. To this end, the Committee tabled an amendment in favour of 25 votes in favour and 8 abstentions and adopted the summary report. The summary amending proposal contains a six-point package of amendments to the Committee on Welfare. This amendment contains language positioning and codification elements. As rapporteur for the Committee on Welfare, I will explain the Committee's position in more detail, so I would like to say no more about this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-11-250	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[Károly Czibere: No, thank you.]] The Secretary of State says no. You've got ten minutes to close at the end if you want to use it. Dear Parliament, We can now hear and hear the thoughts of Mr Gergely Tapolczai as interpreters of the position of the designated Committee on Welfare. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-251	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you again for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, As rapporteur for the Committee on Welfare, I would like to briefly summarise the Committee's position. T/9635. Bill No 1 was discussed by the Welfare Committee and the debate was closed. The committee, examining the proposal, concluded that it complied with the house rules 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. In the event of the adoption of the legislative package by Parliament, it will be possible in future to recover unauthorized benefits, but not paid in bad faith, if the person's livelihood is ensured in another form. The termination of entitlement to a care allowance or annuity for the elderly will be possible if the person concerned interferes with the examination of entitlement. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that only those who need it are entitled to social benefits, and those who cooperate with the authorities. It is an important element of the package of proposals that the law sets out, in view of the specific rights and interests of children, the elements of support to protect children of family importance and to help young adult persons out of child protection systems to integrate them into society. One element of this is home-building support as a child protection cash benefit. This amount will be increased by the adoption of the legislative package. [[18.40]] the requirements set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. In the event of the adoption of the legislative package by Parliament, it will be possible in future to recover unauthorized benefits, but not paid in bad faith, if the person's livelihood is ensured in another form. The termination of entitlement to a care allowance or annuity for the elderly will be possible if the person concerned interferes with the examination of entitlement. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that only those who need it are entitled to social benefits, and those who cooperate with the authorities. It is an important element of the package of proposals that the law sets out, in view of the specific rights and interests of children, the elements of support to protect children of family importance and to help young adult persons out of child protection systems to integrate them into society. One element of this is home-building support as a child protection cash benefit. This amount will be increased by the adoption of the legislative package.(18.40) At the same time, it is an important element of the package to help people with disabilities increase their employment opportunities and strengthen their social security. Imre Nitrai, Deputy State Secretary, was present at the committee's in-depth debate, and we discussed the amendments tabled. The amendments I have tabled... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]]
u2016-04-11-252	You have three minutes.
u2016-04-11-253	Sorry, I'll cut it short. We have therefore discussed the amendments that I have tabled and, on the basis of the budget deficit, could not be supported by the Committee. At the same time, the Welfare Committee adopted a package of six points with 9 yes and 3 abstentions, but we also adopted the report on the detailed debate in the same proportion. Thank you for your attention and patience, Mr President.
u2016-04-11-254	Thank you very much. Two speakers presented the minority opinion formulated in the committee. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a time frame of three minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-255	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out very briefly, in a minute and a half, that my colleague and I have proposed an increase in the amount of support to replace employment by HUF 22 800, and I think it is impossible for a family to make a living with this money, and I think it is even inhumane on the part of the state that it is only that much support. Nearly 200,000 families are affected by this motion. I would also like to mention the increase in the reference point used by raising the basic amount of the care fee, which I have proposed. This amount is currently 29 500 HUF, which has not increased in recent years. If I remember correctly, it was established in 2011, then it was raised by HUF 1000, and this basic amount has remained unchanged ever since. It was then diverted from the minimum old-age pension, and it is now laid down in the Finance Act. The third such motion was that the government announced an increase in the amount of the pension increase in 2016 when the projection fund was increased, but the projection fund was based on the rate of the minimum wage in 2012. Our motion was to take into account the minimum wage at all times. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-11-256	Thank you. Here's Congressman Sebestyén.
u2016-04-11-257	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to talk about three of our amendments, which were discussed at the committee meeting. One is about the reimbursement of benefits received in good faith but unduly. Here is the possibility for the authority, the district government office, that if a certain level, the level of income determined by law, does not reach the level of income per capita in the family, you may consider releasing, releasing or reducing the amount to be recovered. With our amendment, we wanted to indicate that if someone did not reach this income limit, which, according to the wording of the law, could qualify for remission or reduction in this form, in this case the use of the conditional mode is unnecessary, in which case they should have been released or the reduction should have been authorised by the authority and allowed in a non-conditional manner. The second relates to the start of life of those who are out of institutional education, so that they can enter into a contract on housing savings even if it is a lump sum payment and not a monthly repayment in a fixed term. And about our third amendment, since my time is running out, and then I am speaking in the ordinary speech. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-258	Thank you very much. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a two-minute comment is not possible during the debate. First, Congressman Lajos Korózs applied for a speech, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-259	Thank you so much for the opportunity. In a bit of detail, Mr Secretary of State, I have mentioned that we have tabled a proposal to increase employment replacement support, since we do not believe that it will be possible to make a living out of 22 800 forints. In 2011, and it now occurred to me that exactly in 2011, the government took the measure where it reduced the amount of this aid by 20 percent, taking into account this fact, we proposed an increase of almost 50 percent. Our proposal was about what I submitted to my fellow Member Bangóné to increase this amount to HUF 42 750. Our other motion, which I also mentioned, was linked to the care fee. As I mentioned, about HUF 1000 was raised some five years ago. This amount is HUF 29,500, and in this motion, the Socialist Party initiated that the 60,000 people who care for their relatives receive a reasonable supply fee, who should care for their relatives. In view of the fact that it is rather difficult and costly work done by family caregivers in their homes, we have asked the government to take this motion as a priority for its activities. We recommended raising the care fee on the subject from HUF 29 500 to HUF 73 815. The current amount of the increased care fee is HUF 44 250, which is recommended to HUF 95 960 and the current amount of the special care fee of HUF 53 100 is increased to HUF 110 725. Our third motion was, and I mentioned, that we consider it essential to increase the benefits already established, since the 2012 projection fund would be the basis for setting the additional amount of supply. We have never understood why this minimum wage for 2012 should be the indicator on which these amounts should be calculated. Our motion was to set the new amounts in the context of the minimum wage fixed each year. As regards the extent, minimum and maximum amount of rehabilitation care for new claimants, we proposed that, where between 51 and 60 percent of health and employability can be restored by rehabilitation, this amount should be increased from HUF 33 300 to HUF 44 400 for the health condition between 31 and 50 per cent, which requires permanent occupational rehabilitation, from the current HUF 44 400 to HUF 55 500. Here, in percentage terms, the original state is 40 percent of the minimum wage, and we suggested that it be 50 percent of the minimum wage. Although I say for the sake of historical fidelity, the minimum and maximum amounts for the amount of disability benefit for new claimants are also proposed, where there is a health condition of between 51 and 60 percent and employability can be restored by rehabilitation, but because of the other circumstances of the special legislation, it is not possible to employ it and its occupational rehabilitation is not recommended, our proposal was that the minimum amount of benefit should be HUF 33 300 and the maximum amount of care should be HUF 49 950. In the same way, for the health status between 31 and 50 percent, the minimum supply should be HUF 49 950 and the maximum supply should be HUF 166 500. I have to clarify that, unfortunately, I missed a line earlier, we recommended a minimum amount of care for the new claimants in the case of between 51 and 60 per cent health, 33 300 forints instead of the current minimum amount of 28 350 forints, and we recommended 44 400 forints as the maximum amount of care, and in the case of 31-50 per cent we recommended 44 400 for the minimum supply and 55 500 forints for the maximum supply. [[18.50]] My fellow Members, thank you very much. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I wanted to say these things. In the course of tomorrow, Mr Secretary, unfortunately, we cannot support this proposal with our vote. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-04-11-260	Thank you very much. Congressman Sebestyén, Jobbik, please.
u2016-04-11-261	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Not only in relation to this law, but in relation to quite a lot of the laws that have affected our committee recently, it is proof of the haste that in all cases there was a need for amendments by the Commission for commenting on codification and grammar errors, and at that time we did not even talk about professional preparation. If only a well-prepared bill came before this House from the point of view of the text, this would not happen. In the general debate, Mr State Secretary made the promise, responding to what we raised from the opposition on the proposal that there was something that he considered to be considered, and if such an amendment comes in, it will be accepted by the government. On the other hand, Deputy State Secretary Nitrai could not support any of the amendments presenting the portfolio's position. [[Lajos Korózs: Not even Tapolczai's.]] In many cases, not even the amendments made by our colleague Gergely Tapolczai, who is pro-government, even though I believe that the explanations that we have received in many cases at the committee meeting were not really understandable and correct. I would now like to talk about my own amendments. What I said in the presentation of the Commission's minority opinion, which means the elimination of conditional treatment in good faith, but in unauthorized benefits. I believe that the fixed rate, which represents the per capita income in this proposal, is the exact limit at which a family's livelihood might be compromised if this amount is to be repaid. That is why I did not understand why there is a conditional option in the proposal and why the competent agency should not just decide to reduce or release that amount. It is said that there is a very well-built system, every service, every single item published, must be registered on a farm number basis. So it's kind of a weird situation if that's possible. If this happens, it is clearly not the fault of the recipient. In many cases, we know what kind of person we are talking about in life. Allow me also to say, in many cases, what kind of school-educated recipients we are talking about. I do not think it is at all arguable for them to do so. In a lot of cases, they don't even consider extra money. They're happy about it, they're spending it, but since they have to pay it back, even though it wasn't their fault that they got it unauthorized, they're gonna have to pay it back, and that could risk their daily livelihood. Especially since the law has defined this level, I think there is no parole here. I have received a technical explanation for this, and I have been answered by the Deputy Secretary of State, that this would be dangerous, because then the discretion of the designated authority would be completely removed. By the way, I think that his discretion would not cease, because he could still consider and decide, even after an environmental study, that he would choose remission or reduction as an facilitation for such people. The other thing I didn't understand - and I didn't get an answer to that - is why the amendment I tabled was not acceptable - it's about starting-up support for young people, and it's possible that he's choosing to save his living. We know very well that it is not a large sum, it is not even a sum of HUF 2 million, in most cases it is for young people who do not have the right family background, because that is why they were in institutional education, so there is no family basis to start their lives, this amount is quite limited. Fortunately, there is the possibility in the law of using the subsidised housing savings contract, but I do not understand why it restricts the possibility of this contract. What could prevent this young person from choosing not the monthly house savings scheme, but the option of making a lump sum deposit at the time of the contract? A financial service provider may, by the way, grant a contractor more favourable terms or discounts. The third question, which I also do not understand, is why it cannot be accepted, although I think it is legitimate and fair to ask what constitutes income and what is not an income when paying or giving certain benefits. The law deals in detail with the fact that if a property for housing is sold, if it is also for the purchase of immovable property or rights of use for housing purposes within a year, this does not constitute income, or at least up to the amount of income for which this cost is available. With my amendment, I wanted to draw attention to a major problem, namely the fact that it was already a crisis for foreign exchange creditors, and the previous measures did not help them. In foreign exchange creditors, there are many times when they have to sell their property in order not to be auctioned or evicted, but they may be able to withdraw from the wrong loan or the property in a very negative way, but in a more favourable way. In this case, I think it would be justified if you used that amount for this purpose, so that you pay an existing mortgage, then this amount should not be considered an income. For this reason, because he wanted to save his own situation in one of the worst variations as a final solution, he should not therefore be deprived of various benefits in the following year or after the end of a year, which, I note, as in the previous amendments, might risk maintaining his life if he did not receive it, although he actually spent that amount on housing purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-262	Congressman Nándor Gúr is next, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to say three things. One is that, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask that, in the future, when planning such and similar laws, the motivational background should not be that people do not save, that people spend everything, that people do not provide for their own safety. When the issue of savings deposits is classified in the category of wealth, it is, in a sense, accompanied by the fact that if it is, I will lose it, and then I may not even have to. So, it's worth putting these connections together. The other issue concerning the issue of the screening fund for people with disabilities is that my colleague, Mr Korózs, mentioned that the amendment is not, in fact, random so that the minimum wage at the moment is the basis. After all, if the 2012 minimum wage was the projection fund in 2012, why should we say in 2016 the minimum wage for 2012 plus the pension increase of 1.6 percent? The story is simply incoherent. I don't even know how to connect the two things. In one way, yes, not to be 93 thousand forints, but to be 94 500 forints now. But, you know, the minimum wage is today, but it's 111,000 forints. So it is worth maintaining consistency in this regard. Another thing that might be worth mentioning is that this has not been so reflected in the amendments, which concerns the issue of state change, which makes it possible, in effect, to reset within five years and to reset positive and negative terms. Here I understand that if the client benefits from a positive finding, it is less so if at the expense of the client. Of course, this can be answered in such a way as to be possible, since it is possible to account for a state of improvement. Only I think that the security for the foreseeable period should be given to people, especially if the government cannot offer jobs as a result of the change of state. However, all figures and sequences of figures that relate to this show that there are no significant movements in this respect. [[19.00]] Mr Secretary of State will use some numbers if he wants to, but I would like to tell you that I can disprove what he says from the other side, so it may not be worthwhile to use them. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-11-264	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframe. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[For signal:]] Secretary Czibere has the floor. You have ten minutes. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank you for the supporting comments made in both the previous and the current debate. I think that in the previous debate, in the general debate, several people have said that with a number of parts of the proposal and the amendment proposal they see that the direction is right, but in many cases they cannot identify with the scale, either with a greater increase or with greater support. I can now say the same for the proposals that have been made. I think that the professional direction of most opposition amendment proposals, that we should take action in these directions in relation to the three most sensitive, vulnerable, vulnerable social groups involved in this proposal, is important for me too. This proposal is also an important tool for this, both for people with disabilities and for those with child protection care, and for those with benefits. At the same time, it was important to take steps in some aspects that have been brought together by the practice of law enforcement. So, in general, I can say that we thank you for the supporting comments, but we will go further in the directions that we have just heard here. A few specific things in response. One is the FHT increase - this is a substitute for employment. We believe that unemployment benefits, as a substitute for employment, cannot be seen alone, should be applied together and seen together with public employment wages and income from their net income, together with a picture of the real income situation of these people. The government's aim is to provide public employment for an ever longer period of time in one year, thus clearly reducing the scope and duration of the FHT. Another important issue is the increase in the basic amount of the care fee. We feel the same way, and I indicated in the previous debate that we too should support this, hopefully we will be able to do so in the near future. In this direction, and in this effort, we will be partners, and so will we. The next issue is the indexation of MMK, we consider it important to extend the system of occupational rehabilitation and to improve employment opportunities for those with disabilities. One important point is that five years ago, the employment rate in this circle was 14-15-16 percent, and now we're at 25-26 percent. At the same time, it is important to try to broaden this further, for example by removing the time limit and introducing the income limit as a uniform principle, which will encourage further employment expansion. I consider the indexation to be an important achievement. So we think it is important that the aid rates, the minimums and the maximums are also launched through indexation. That's a very important development. It is possible to argue why we measure it or this year, but I think that the guarantee of integrity is starting, is an indisputable merit of this proposal. Mr Sebestyén Editor's two questions. One is the question of fairness and the question of the recipients of good faith. Indeed, we believe that there is a reduction in the level of discretion and the scope of the authority, so we did not support it. In the other case, in the case of home creation aid, since, in the case of housing savings contracts, state aid is only linked to the annual payment of savings, if the child protection home support is paid at the same time after the conclusion of the contract, the young adult will fall from State aid in the subsequent savings years. For the benefit of young adults, it is therefore necessary to provide in the Child Protection Act that housing savings contracts can only be financed if they are concluded for a minimum term of four years and the payment is made only in instalments and the lump sum payment is therefore not eligible. It is precisely important for this vulnerable group, the legal certainty and social security of the children in care of the state, to align this type of support with the Housing Savings Bank Act, and it is also important, for their safety, to increase the minimum and maximum amount of aid by 17-18-19-20 percent. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for your support. I would like to thank all the people who participated in the preparation of the bill and thank you for your parliamentary work. I ask everyone to respect the government's work for people with disabilities, people with disabilities, children, by voting in favour of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-04-11-266	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member, MSZP:, How much is the woman's honor worth? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-267	Thank you. Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, It could also be called, as could be the case with the speeches made by my opposition fellow Members after the agenda, that instead of the victim error. Why did we want to give this title to our speeches after the agenda today? Because the events of the last few months have shown that our initiative to ratify the Istanbul Convention must indeed be brought back into Parliament's walls. In recent months, the issue of child abuse in Szentmiklós has been brought to the fore again, where it has been found that the court of first instance has violated serious rules in the investigation of sexual violence. Then the abuse at the children's home in Kaposvár came to light from the official report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, and the László Kiss case at the Swimming Federation highlighted that there is much more trouble in Hungary than we think. I wouldn't want to deal with László Kiss, but I think that there is a sport in Hungary that could give excellent athletes to this country. I'm a mother, and I can think of how many mothers in the last few weeks have been in a chair at home and thought about whether her child has been affected in the last 55 years by the things that have turned out to be in front of the press. Was his child affected? How many mothers have thought about what the Swimming Federation has been hiding for the past five years, and why have these children been exposed? But there's something even more serious than that, if you can say so. Today in Hungary a successful sport can be destroyed with this case. Not only because they withdraw sponsorship money, as we heard last week, but again on the basis of how mothers might think today that their gifted children are not going to be given swimming sports anymore, just to spare their child. And you can only agree with that. By the way, fellow Members, what some ministers, some Members, are doing in the walls of this House should be considered. In connection with the Istanbul Convention, we remember our former fellow Member, István Varga, who said on a late night within the walls of Parliament that perhaps mothers should return to raising children, have two or three or more children, and then have value to appreciate each other better, and not even consider domestic violence. [[19.10]] Or if we listen to Tamás Gyárfás in connection with the Kiss László case, what he said in the media, Tamás Gyárfás said: I knew that there was something about women. And I wouldn't want to add to what's been said in the last two weeks about this case. I think that we, the Members, should set an example first. And I am only asking my fellow Members not only to stand up on this issue by women, but also by men and by my fellow Members, so that when I take the initiative with my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szelényi, and then Zsuzsa Szelényi, to re-submit our proposal for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, I would ask you to support it. Don't abstain, don't vote against it. It is precisely these cases that highlight today's Hungarian society, how deeply we want domestic violence to be kept within our family. And the problem is that the scandal about the Swimming Alliance reveals that it is not within the family, it is in every segment of society, and it cannot be tolerated that women, children, pensioners and disabled people in Hungary today are being abused if they are sexual, verbal, any abuse; and we are sweeping it under the carpet, or just because we do not dare to confess to ourselves how much this is present in Hungarian society today. Support this, my fellow Members, and I would like my fellow men in particular to do so. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-11-268	Thank you. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP, applied for a post-meeting speech:. What is the woman's honor worth? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-269	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As my colleague Ildikó Bangóné Borbély just said, we cannot sweep the problem under the rug. We are here in the Hungarian Parliament, and we do have the opportunity to do something about domestic violence, to do something about violence against women. One of the tools for this - since we cannot sweep under the rug that there are many concrete instruments at the disposal of the state to make a point - would be the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. The Istanbul Convention entered into force on 1 August 2014. So far, 36 countries have joined this agreement, and there are only a few countries at the moment who have not yet ratified this convention. One of these countries is Hungary. Two years passed, and to this day, it has not been possible. We have repeatedly put in an initiative with our opposition colleagues to finally do so, and the government and the government parties have swept it off the table without any meaningful dialogue. It is a fact, however, that this would give the Hungarian State a system of tools that could help the work of civil society organisations that are still very active on this issue, who are incredibly committed to this issue, but there is also a limit to their powers and capacity, and there is a point where the state must play a role in this, in order to combat domestic violence. The Council of Europe is still having an incredibly intensive campaign to eradicate violence against women, and recently the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, whom we had the opportunity to ask in the Committee on Foreign Affairs about the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, about how this campaign is progressing. And in his reply, he also pointed out at the committee meeting how important it is that the Member States ratify this and that they really do everything they can to ensure that this happens. And let's see how the ratification of the Istanbul Convention can help us. According to preliminary calculations, Hungary would cost about HUF 6 billion in total to get a system of tools in its hands, both in terms of the refining of legislation and in terms of specific institutional opportunities and education, which is essential for this struggle. For example, the development of the institutional system and the further development of the signalling system. This would be the case for judges, helping law enforcement agencies with education and training, how they can further identify situations where they need to intervene without delay; and indeed for those who molest their family members, women, children - and, I add, this is not just about women. It is also about children and, where appropriate, men. Where such violence occurs within the family, it should be revealed as much as possible, and the police should be able to contribute more effectively. As my fellow Member has mentioned, the case of László Kiss points out that words are no longer sufficient, but that there is a need for real action on this subject. Today, Antal Rogán said a sentence in response to the speeches before the agenda. It means that women's opinions are of paramount importance to the government. So, if these words are honest, then I think that this question deserves action, and that there is a need to address the situation of women, the issue of domestic violence, and how many children are affected by this issue. The government has a responsibility in this regard, because every time we have tabled this proposal for a resolution to ratify the Istanbul Convention, it has been voted out. And finally, I'd like to finish my comment with some data. In Hungary, one fifth of women over the age of 15 are victims of violence, so during their lifetime we are talking about one million women in Hungary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And a woman dies every week as a result of domestic violence.
u2016-04-11-270	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, MEP, Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title IV., on the Ángyán reports. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-271	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Week after week, I try to show the most serious abuses in relation to public land privatisations. Now I can do that in a way that the second wave has ended. If the news is true, they will try to sell the rest of the national wealth in a total of three waves, and it is true that we are well past the half-time, it contains enough evidence, enough concrete fact to draw the conclusions and say here from week to week that they have really fooled the Hungarian people, they have cheated the owners badly, and they have also fooled the farmers who have been believed that the third Orbán government will finally bring justice, and they will get land. We heard some interesting songs today. There was also a pro-government interpellation, to which Secretary Bitay replied. I would take two numbers, and this, as I have said, is interesting, since the government itself recognizes and tells these numbers. One was that one in ten farmers had access to land. I think that would be a devastating number in itself, but they seem to be proud of it, because, as I said, Mr Secretary of State said these proportions in a reply. The other thing that was shocking to me and an even more meaningful number is that they defend themselves by saying that the opposition and Jobbik are wrong about the fact that the farmers, the capital, were given to the land, because of the amount of land under 150 hectares to their new owner. Yes, we also have serious problems with this 150-hectare number, and it reflects very, very well what rural policy, strategic, and thinking difference there is between Jobbik and Fidesz. If you seriously believe that today in today's Hungary 150 hectares of agricultural land can be the limit, the number that proves that it helps small and medium-sized family farmers, then I think there is a serious problem in the minds and that we need to seriously think about not speaking the same language with the government side. Today, in Hungary 150 hectares means 200 million forints in a lower voice, but at the bids it could be up to 250-300 million forints or above. Tell me honestly whether you have met a local, really family farmer who has been able to raise such a large amount of money or would like to be indebted to such a large amount of money. [[19.20]] Obviously, neither the 150 hectares nor the area above are at all about the communication announced. I have already looked at many things from József Ángyán's reports; now let me mention only a few specifics from the most recent material here. This stuff just came into my hands today. I'd like to start with the county of Fejér, which is our most famous favourite county in relation to land privatisation. I'd like to speak specifically of the size of the estates larger than three hectares. There are a lot of delays on the part of the government that the piece of dirib, which is truly a belt parcel, is constantly involved in communication in order to make statistics look good and be cosmetic so that it can be presented between the walls of the House. What are we talking about in real life? The 677 estates in Fejér County, which total 27 thousand hectares, are much more than the county average, since we can talk about about 10 500 hectares in terms of the average of the other counties, so it is two and a half times larger. An announced estate was an average of 40.1 hectares. That's the average Fejér county. You, of course, add the under three hectares, as I said, to slide with this. This means the following in size categories: below 20 hectares - sounds very good! - They sold 348 pieces of property. But if you look at the total of 10 percent of these areas, you can see how they trick with certain statistics. Between 20 and 50 hectares there were 143 numbers, accounting for 17 percent of the area, between 50 and 100 hectares, which I would not count as helping small and medium-sized family farmers, 69 numbers, so we see a significant decrease here, but 31 percent of these areas. Of course, the lowest number is over 100 hectares, the least area, but 40 percent of the areas are about privatization of such greasy, good gold crowns, over 100 hectares of state land. This is the reality, these are the facts, and I hope that the government will talk about them in the future, so that it is clear to everyone that there is no support for local family farmers. I look forward to your substantive response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-272	Thank you very much. Gergely Farkas, Member, Jobbik, has applied for a post-meeting speech. Report to Jobbik's Youth Department Hear your voice! on the results of his campaign, titled III, Here you go.
u2016-04-11-273	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We continue to get a lot of opinions from young people about hearing your voice! I would therefore like to make another bunch of comments, criticisms and opinions. The question of language learning raised many times by Jobbik and the problems related to language examination are legitimate and experiential for students themselves. As one high school student put it: in today's world, the knowledge of a foreign language is no longer enough, in several places two or even three are demanded, writes Tímea. In addition to this, Gábor says that the quality of language education can be very low in elite high schools. The best teachers get very few classes, most students are forced to prepare in language schools not only for their language exams, but also for their mid-level graduations. In this regard, I would suggest that you raise the quality of this, or that you pay for your language exams in the state, as you are expected for college admissions. Not specifically in relation to primary or secondary education, but in any case it concerns the topic of youth and further education, Arnold, who put it this way: there should be a lot more free re-training opportunities in the labour market with public support, especially courses and training courses with OKJ. Training should be adapted to skills gaps and should not be linked to these opportunities. In connection with this subject, another student, Mark, expressed his opinion: unfortunately, the government stopped interoperability in vocational training. I experience it on my own, trying to get the student to decide what he wants to do as an adult when he's 14. Also interesting and indirectly related to education is the following. In referendums or in any national or local elections there should be a condition for eight primary schools or four elements of the old system, without which it would not be possible to vote, says one student. By the way, Jobbik has also raised this point and finds it suitable for debate. Let's hope, sooner or later, we will be able to discuss this. We can see each other more - and that's your voice. I also experience during our campaign - that there will be a complaint that raises awareness of the shortcomings of national culture in school care, transmission and Hungarian history education. For example, Nóra believes that it is necessary to teach and learn Hungarian history more thoroughly, because this is our past. Of course, it's important to know other people's, but let's be aware of our own first. Our campaign is not only about sharing negative things and complaints with us, but also about students simply explaining and hearing their thoughts and insights. A good example of this is the letter by Ivan, who, in contrast with the vast majority of the opinions received, says: there are some good things in school that I do not want to miss because I think it is important. Many say that they have to comply in about a hundred areas per day and that they should leave biology and history because they do not care. Not them, but the others. Bios, chemistry, math, history, Hungarian, főci, drawing and so on. My fellow students say why it is not enough to be excellent in just one or two subjects, and when math will be used in life and so on. I, and many others, say Ivan, think that basic education requires a small amount of everything. By the age of 25, a quarter of it won't survive, but for example, how would a student know what career he wants to go to if he doesn't get information or a taste of everything. I think bio, math, history, Hungarian and all that is important. As I said, basic education requires you to be able to talk meaningfully with anyone, so that you can express yourself, so that you can have an exchange of views, says a young person. Tibor, a student of the 12th class of computer science at a high school, wanted to share the following experiences with Jobbik, thus with the National Assembly: in high school, the students' minds are about to develop what they want to do later, so I think that the subjects should be compiled for themselves according to what they want to learn, of course they also need mandatory subjects, but they should have an optional level. That's an interesting point. In addition to the many unnecessary things, they do not teach the necessary information for everyday life, such as how to do official things, write an official letter, how to make tax returns, what laws we have, what our rights are, how to apply for different applications. Many comments have been received, and we are still waiting for the students' opinion, because we believe it is important to listen to them, unlike you, Mr Szilárd Németh, who do not do so. We will do it, and we will say it, we can argue about it, we can agree with them, but at least we will listen to the young people. I advise you to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-274	Szilárd Németh, Mr Fidesz: he was born 159 years ago with the title Weiss Manfréd in Csepel. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-275	Thank you very much. If I've already spoken, Mr. President, I have to respond in any way. The story was so transparent; you don't have to be a stylist teacher to see that one person wrote the whole thing, not the students. [[Forefather Novak: Alas, what a solemn speech! He can't stop getting all the dirt out of it!]] Dear Parliament, The Weiss family's ancestors are still the 18th. They came to our country in the century. Baron Csepeli Weiss Manfred was born on April 11, 1857 in Pest, 159 years ago. After completing the Academy of Commerce, he became a footman in Hamburg and returned to Hungary at the age of 20 due to his illness. At that time he joined Berthold's brother's businesses, including the founding shareholders of the Royal Steam Mill. On 28 December 1882, the Weiss brothers were authorized to set up their first Hungarian canning factory in Lövölde Square. Their wealth, relationships, and influence were also enhanced by marriage, so in 1884 Manfred Weiss married the daughter of Alice, CEO Albert von Wahl. They had six children. The girls married to the families Mauthner, Kornfeld and Chorin, while one of their sons brought the Weiss family into a relationship with the Hatvany-Deutsch. When the Weiss brothers put the factory into operation in Csepel in 1892, the settlement was still a sleepy little farm village, its peasant nature only started to change rapidly, to urbanize and to develop according to their investments and decisions. The agricultural workers of Csepel Island were happy to work in the factory, as the owners provided them with favourable working conditions, good salaries and more social care over the years. World War I broke out in 1914. Weiss Manfred turned his solo business into a family company. By the middle of the war, the company reached its peak, so the wealth of Manfred Weiss was enormous, and in 1917 the General Insurance Company estimated the value of the plant in Csepel to be nearly 100 million kroner. [[19.30]] Dear Parliament, However, Manfred Weiss and his family's activities were not limited to production, not just job creation, but not just to maximizing profits. CHAPTER XX In the first two decades of the century, Csepel's scientific research, cultural and social facilities, the material testing laboratory, the design office, the study workshop and the casino were built. For Manfred Weiss considered it important to sacrifice personal and corporate assets for charitable purposes. Tile was significantly developed, roads were built and local schools were supported. They've built houses and apartments for hundreds of working families. They financed the Jewish and Christian denominations of Csepel. The factory employees have established hospitals, kindergartens, day care, schools, sports fields. They sponsored university students, fraternities, Christian and Jewish charities, soup kitchens. Meanwhile, the local railway between Erzsébetfalva-Csepel was completed, the industrial track leading to the factory was built, and the number of inhabitants of Csepel was close to 10,000 by 1910. Weiss Manfred's wife died in 1904. In 1910 the industrial tycoon, who had received a baron title and later a upper-house membership, set up a parent home, which became the most modern institution in Budapest. For example, this is where the first pregnant counseling was organised in the country and their own nursing school was operated. Between 1910 and 18, 5535 children saw the light of day in the home offering their services free of charge. In memory of his wife, the factory owner also created the Weiss Alice Foundation, which provided substantial financial assistance for the start of poor girls' lives. In 1919, during the Soviet Republic, his factory was nationalized, and Manfred Weiss attempted suicide because his factory was his life. He took poison, and the only reason he survived the poisoning was because of the rapid medical procedure. After that period, several times after the death of Manfred Weiss, they had to endure various occupations, the total abduction and the robbery of their factory. The latest robbery was after the regime change in 1989. Today, however, Csepel has a leadership, a political leadership that considers the life's work of Manfred Weiss as a model, an example. We would like to create the reindustrialisation of Csepel, the creation of jobs and the improvement of the living conditions of the people of Csepel. We ask for the support of the Weiss family, the government and the Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-11-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi applied for a post-meeting speech, instead of a victim error. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-277	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Violence is always about power. He says you're mine, I can do whatever I want with you. Any child of ours could be exposed to violence, because children are mostly dependent on someone, or perhaps in any case. And they're not equipped to resist various acts of violence. Violence has many faces. Oral humiliation, physical abuse, sexual assault - they're all a terrible category of violence. Plus, it doesn't depend on social status. Highly educated people with high intellect, as often violent in high status as those who are not in a position of power or are not so highly qualified. Those in power, on the other hand, have a very common sense of inviolability. And inviolability reduces our response to violence. In violent cases, there is an inviolable feeling of invulnerable humiliation, lack of self-confidence, hiding, not having the courage to help someone, with loneliness. The sense of inviolability is opposed to those who suffer abuse. The Kiss László scandal clearly has this experience. When a national hero turns out to be a disgusting abuser he's been hiding from the country world, the first reaction is to close the power elite behind him. We know this phenomenon. This was the case when Dominique Strauss-Kahn, a powerful president of the international monetary authority, was found to have been violent. That's what happened in the Zhanett case when cops were gang-busting. So was Damu Roland, who, as a celebrity, had a hard time believing in violence. But in each case, it turns out that's what happened. Strauss-Kahn was not just a violent person, during his scandal, there were huge numbers of politicians in France. Police, politicians, celebrity, everyone can be violent. Violence is not dependent on social status. That's why it's very important that this Kiss case finally came to light. Just when UNICEF published a very serious report a few years ago, both internationally and in Hungary, on the dramatic relationship of violence in the field of sport. In sports, the basic function of which is the source of joy, is that they like to do it, everyone, children and adults, which is healthy, which trains the body, which is basically a source of joy. UNICEF's study in Hungary revealed that 70 percent of young people in the world of Hungarian sports suffer from humiliation, verbal violence, 39 percent suffer regular physical abuse, and 31 percent are also victims of sexual violence. They're really terrible numbers. It turns out that violence in sports is taboo. We're pushing these walls today when we're talking about this case. It's taboo in adults, let alone in children who suffer from such a huge proportion of sexual violence, initiation rituals. What we know about violent events, however, has turned out to be that young people who are dependent on the force of compliance, under the influence of the force of performance, are incredibly exposed to violence without help. Soul humiliation, forced risk taking, physical punishment, doping, the use of all kinds of illicit and unhealthy drugs and, in many cases, sexual violence. All this is unacceptable. I wrote to Zsolt Borkai, President of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, in order for Hungarian sports to become clean and move forward in the Kiss case, in order to initiate extensive investigations and explore the situation of violence in sport, as well as to Tamás Gyárfás, of course. It is very important that the MOB produce a code of ethics that clearly condemns violence and helps those who are being abused. Of course, we have to give all the help we can. It is the government's job to finally adopt and introduce in Hungary the rules of the Istanbul Convention, which protects young people, adults and women from violence, launch a campaign against violence, and widely punish and make this phenomenon unacceptable in Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Dr. Bernadett Wind applaud.]]
u2016-04-11-278	Thank you very much. Mr Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, speaker after the next agenda:. Auctioned Nature Protection - what will be the fate of Natura 2000 sites? Here you go.
u2016-04-11-279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to begin by saying that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary condemns all forms of violence both within the family and outside the family, whether physical, psychological or verbal. My topic today is the auction Natura 2000 sites, as in Hungary, 520 thousand hectares of some 4.3 million hectares of agricultural land are classified as Natura 2000. In these areas, my fellow Members are well aware that, according to EU rules and the maintenance of public welfare, agricultural activities can only be carried out that harmonises production aspects and the conservation of animal species using arable land. Several nature conservation organisations and Jobbik themselves have recently addressed this issue, asking Minister Sándor Fazekas. As regards the fact that these Natura 2000 sites are being auctioned in the same way as any other field, they do not take into account the interests of nature conservation. The habitats of each species are these ploughs and pastures preserved in addition to proper farming, which is why it is very important to preserve these areas. [[19.40]] In the areas of Kiskunság, Hevesi and Mosoni, significant areas can become part of the land auction. These areas are home to several bird species and breeding areas, such as highly protected Bustards. It is feared that, after private access, the new owners will engage in activities involving environmental degradation that will not allow certain protected birds to survive. So far, land of this rank has been rented and land use has been imposed by a government decree. In the case of land classified as Natura 2000, it is feared that the state will cease to have direct intervention, and the State, together with its land, will lose its ownership rights to preserve natural values. It may be necessary to limit ownership in order to ensure social interest, public interest or the right to a healthy environment, Minister Sándor Fazekas must refuse the permit, and must also exercise that right before the auction is launched. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that improper use of Natura 2000 sites could lead to infringement proceedings by the European Union. A 2014 position of the European Court of Justice on Natura 2000 areas is another cause of concern: Member States are obliged to propose to the European Commission the re-rating of a Natura 2000 site, i.e. to exclude it from the system if the owner of the site so requests and proves that due to the environmental degradation of the site, the area cannot contribute to the Natura 2000 nature conservation objectives. There has been a tension between owners and investors, as well as conservationists: investors typically encounter conservation rules and restrictions which they consider unreasonablely strict, while conservation organisations and activists are suspicious and skeptical about the measures accompanying investments. Real estate owners complain about continuous depreciation, so they're looking for loopholes, they'd like their land removed from Natura 2000 classification, because they don't think it serves conservation functions anymore. These proposals are generally rejected by nature conservation authorities, but the aforementioned EU judgment may change this practice. A detailed impact assessment of the effects of a planned investment should be made to convince nature conservation authorities that the investment will not adversely affect the integrity of a given natural area. If the impact assessment results in a negative result, it is only possible to authorise the investment under compensatory measures on the basis of a social or economic interest that overrides the interests of nature conservation and is extremely difficult to suggest such interests in a private investment. In a previous case, the construction of the port in Balatonfenyves did not have the appropriate reassuring impact assessment, so we have reason to believe that the areas sold in the future will be no different and that the buddies will benefit again. The developer's Előny Kft. has been associated with names who have been involved in several suspicious transactions in previous years, such as HospInvest, which cannot be called a success story. Ladies and gentlemen, The best owner of these areas must be the state, so we call again on the government not to waste its territory, especially in Natura 2000 nature conservation areas, to ensure that these natural values are preserved. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-280	Thank you very much. Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, is next with the title:. Railway construction, or another favourite milkingstehene of the oligarchs near the government. Here.
u2016-04-11-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On Jobbik's part, we have already expressed our opinion and our conviction that the role of rail is high among the modes of transport, as it is more cost-effective, energy-saving, safer than, say, road freight and passenger transport. The only reason why the railway is needed is because without it there would be an even greater flood of already overloaded trucks. The railway has had a huge impact on the economy and society since its heroic age, so its development is necessary, but its effectiveness is not irrelevant. Unfortunately, there are plenty of bad references in Hungary, so let's just think about the Esztergom line, which seems like an endless story, built in extremely expensive and outrageously scandalous circumstances, or the mistakes and anomalies around the also unsuspected Lepsény-Szántód phase. And there is already the latest rail scandal in the development of the south-balaton line, as the original bill was filled with HUF 25 billion as a good gentleman, which would not be a problem if it were to be placed at their own expense, but that there would not be a private investment between you and Balatonszentgyörgy. Of course, we'll get used to it, but obviously we'll never accept it: if the interests of the nation's gas mechanic are great in railway construction, then the public money doesn't matter, the money can fall, let the party-loved oligarch grow. All this at a time when the pay gap in Latin America has soared to the unspeakable heights of the railway: while some people, relying on their experience in agriculture, also see milking cows in railway constructions and take advantage of them, while others give me such a message, I quote: "My respects! In case you're wondering what else is going on at the MÁV, please, tomorrow, if you'll allow it, visit the Barcsi station, where you can see that for a net HUF 76 thousand, we will exchange concrete floors for the XXI. In the century: hand, fork, pick, without mechanization, and then, with four men carrying a 300-pound concrete base, from 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m., all kinds of protective drinks, no work clothes, no provisions. - So far, the message. In addition, the honourable government party would expect us to say yes to the renewal of the HUF 500 billion domestic section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line with 85 percent Chinese credit in the course of the vote on Tuesday. With interest, 100,000 HUF would be added to the Hungarian neck from the infant to the old man. The investment seems to be brutally overpriced anyway, as without flushing it would be difficult for them to explain why a single kilometer - we find this a little too much - would cost 3 billion forints in the mirror plain plain areas, or, following the good socialist traditions already known at the M6 motorway, perhaps they will muddle the ground to finally tunnel under the hills that fit the mole culture. Moreover, we do not see any guarantee that the 500 billion that we have just said will be 500 billion, not 600 or 700 billion at the end. As greedy as the big-grown fidesz little balls, we wouldn't be surprised. Of course, we would be happy if we had the Eastern lance mountain, and we would also welcome Hungary becoming a regional centre for cooperation between China and Central Europe, and we would welcome the new Silk Road through us. We recognise that, in terms of economic and social relations, the development of the Balkan railway line is an extremely important European interest, like Rail Baltica in the north, but while the budget is an annual basis for the operation of railway infrastructure and the reimbursement of public passenger transport services, i.e. the total amount allocated to the MÁV for the current 150 line, we expect certain guarantees for such a huge investment. As I said during the debate on the bill - and I asked for it in writing too - let us see the economic underlying calculations, impact assessments, the guarantee of the business partner! Let us hear the promises of transport integration linked to the line. Why can't you prove that it's not a waste of public money, a project that allows meglátások, which never returns? We support rail development, but without these guarantees, we cannot support the bill. I'd expect a meaningful answer, but in the light of all the experience we've had so far, it's in vain. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-282	Thank you very much. Mr Sebestyén Vácsó, representative of Jobbik, spoke on the title "Tragic Situations in the Social Area." Here.
u2016-04-11-283	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Starting today with my speech before the agenda, we have had a number of speeches on this title, interviews and non-scheduled speeches. In these speeches, we wanted to draw attention to the real, tragic situation, which affects the sector itself, the structure of the sector, the professionals working in the sector themselves, and on the one hand, the beneficiaries, those in need of help, those in the most vulnerable situation. We see how much more difficult the situation of a person in Hungary today is, it is increasingly difficult, it is becoming poorer, the social scissors are opening up more and more, and what we see from the other side is that those who, by law, should help these deprived people through the care system are in a very difficult and worse financial situation than those who should be helped. [[19.50]] They've been promising a social career model for years, and it's not going to be introduced. According to the latest promise, this will take place in the summer or second half of 2017. I think that, given the current haste and rather than the systems that have been said and put together in a very hasty and hasty way, the energy should be used to develop this. Just to mention a few examples of the hasty, hasty and hasty measures that have been taken recently, if we only take today's discussions and debates, it is recalled that in all cases, in the legislative amendments to our sector, the social sector, five to six to eight Commission amendments were needed, because they wanted to bring these issues to legislation so quickly that they did not pay attention to the errors of stylistics, language use or codification, and, in this respect, even if we do not look at the professional aspects, we are confronted with premature and far-reaching proposals. We see very well what I said in my speech before the agenda, too, that centralisation has gone awry here, and we would like to see that Minister Balog, as he said at the KLIK, has pushed the bike too far, and has gone too far with this excessive centralisation and the construction of the KLIK, and it is not really for the purpose that they would like, I would like you to finally state this with regard to the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection. Yes, you should declare it, because this waterhead, which is sitting on the neck of the sector and the sphere, is slowly not only helping its work, but, in many cases, hindering its work. But speaking of rushing, let's talk about one of the last few times, which entered into force on 1 January, the establishment of child welfare centers, the complete transformation of the child welfare and family support system, which I also say could be understood from a professional point of view, yes, during a treatment to help both business and intersectoral dialogue, only here, it seems that life has proved that this transformation was nothing but savings. Even now, even in the spring, although the law came into force on 1 January, the service providers, district government offices, the national and local management of SZGYF play ball with each other, on such fundamental questions that a building belonging to a child welfare centre is now a site or not a site, on what grounds it can use it, and simply no one can answer the service providers on such a basic issue. And let's not talk about what new tasks there are, how you should share the statuses, what kind of professional qualifications you need, how to organise human resources and how to organise the work itself. And then there are also delays that these centers should also take care of, school social work, but in this chaos, we cannot expect that to happen. However, if we say that we need to start changing at the roots, I think that this would be the status that would be essential for prevention, it would be essential for us to reverse a life that has been missed for some reason at the root, even at the very beginning, and to integrate or reintegrate these people normally into society. There is a need to change both centralisation and the wage situation, because otherwise this system will become unsustainable. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-11-284	Thank you very much. After the agenda, Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné applied with a title on our local public affairs. Here you go.
u2016-04-11-285	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with the day of poetry, April 11th, please allow me to begin with a quote: / No one in the army will come, / Robbed, said goodbye / Gun, freely, / We have gathered in me, everyone's / The wealth. These lines are astoundingly topical, as if Endre Ady lived here with us today and knew the poisoned domestic public life that was filled with corruption. If we only look at the news of the last few months or weeks, we can see that the people who are hungry for our national fortunes are really coming. But who are we talking about? Dear House, In addition to the debate on the news of the past period, we should first mention the national godfather Andy Vajna. The offshore knight, who receives billions of gifts from the state-owned, reserved bank and has received billions of tax reliefs each year, evicts all his profits into a tax haven in Luxembourg. And the competent minister recently confirmed this right, as we know. But we also know, and, as we have learned from press reports and comments at professional conferences, the reconstruction and integration of Városliget will also partly benefit him. Ladies and gentlemen, Is it possible to evacuate the Castle of Vajdahunyad and, as we have heard from one of the ministers, to change function due to economic considerations, i.e. to become a host place, in the interest of Andy Vajna? Is there going to be a casino there, too? But speaking of the Liget project, it is also necessary to mention the fate of the Buda Castle in parallel, or, as they call it recently, the fate of the Zsidai Castle, since Zoltán Roy Zsidai, as rumored, is deeply interested in the planned change of function of the Buda Castle. Ráhel Orbán's former employer, according to the news, will benefit very well from the investment carried out by a foundation of the Hungarian National Bank in the Holy Trinity Square in the building of a former cultural palace. At the same time, the name of another fidesz oligarch can be mentioned in connection with the construction of the Castle. For example, István Garancsi, Market Construction Ltd. owner; Lőrinc Mészáros, gasman of the nation, and his son-in-law, Magyar Építő Zrt. the leader. Thanks to the construction and the planned investments, our national wealth, our pride, the Buda Castle will become the home and club of the Fidesz capitalists. Dear House, Since I mentioned one of the Prime Minister's family members, let me now mention one of his other relatives and their economic activities. According to press reports by the nation's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, Gaith Pharaon, an oil tycoon of Saudi oil, also wanted by the FBI, became an outskirt in Hungary. After buying castles in Budapest, he now bought the Postabank building in József nádor tér - also a historic building - and is likely to build a luxury hotel. But he's probably already checked out the neighboring Treasury building for himself. Will István Tiborcz assist him in this too? The statue on the square depicts the reed of Joseph, one of the most committed developers in the capital. What would you think if you could see how the national wealth that he has gained is being carried apart by the imaginary people and the people who came along with him / S icky ugly servants / S great lords? Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-04-11-286	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, speaker after the next agenda:
u2016-04-11-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today, many Members of Parliament wear a white ribbon in the Hungarian Parliament, an international symbol of the fight against violence against women. We have also prepared a series of speeches for today, several parties and several people have joined our initiative, to which we have given a title instead of a victim error. I would like to stress that this is a matter that is above the parties and I consider it very important to have a complete consensus on this issue in the Hungarian Parliament. We also speak because there have been things here that you cannot go without saying a word. Obviously, we are connected to the event that exploded last week in the form of news that László Kiss, the federal captain of the Hungarian swimming team, committed a serious crime in 1961. At that time, 21-year-old László Kiss and his two accomplices lured me into an apartment and then gang-raped a young girl. The court sentenced Kiss to three years at second instance. He didn't serve two thirds of his sentence, got out after 20 months. After the incident, he could continue his swimming career. According to the laws now in force, it is unlikely that it could do so, but there is still much more to be done in the legislation. We all remember the stork camp violence, after which we submitted a bill that Fidesz did not vote for, even though it would increase the protection of children from abusers. [[20.00]] We are trying to re-submit this bill, and we think that sooner or later Fidesz will also have to admit that there are proposals that need to be seen not by the opposition or by the government party, but by simply voting. In addition, I think that what happened after the incident last week and everything that was said from the mouth of responsible politicians and leaders has done a great deal to the fight against violence against women in Hungary. The fact that women are abused, physical and sexual violence is a crime for which, under no circumstances, the victim cannot be held accountable, unfortunately, it seems that to date there is no evidence, and in this respect, what and how politicians speak is of utmost importance. It is therefore indicative of the reactions that arise from time to time in case of exploding events. I cannot stress enough the importance of public resolutions on such a matter on the part of those in a responsible position. These reactions have an oriental effect on society's thinking about sexual violence against women, their impact on the formation of consciousness. It is important that public figures and opinion leaders are aware of their responsibilities in this regard. I would like to address two reactions to László Kiss. One is the standing of the leaders and the training committee of the Hungarian Swimming Association in favour of the federal captain and the statement of the president of the Hungarian Swimming Association, Tamás Gyárfás. The tighter management of MUSZ a few days after the case exploded, as you know, stood unanimously for Kiss, confirmed him in his position, wrote that the former coach was given the opportunity to exonerate his crime with his performance and satisfaction, and that he succeeded. In a similar spirit, the president of the MÚSZ said, and I quote, that the crimes committed in the youth of László Kiss have expired. If a sinner has punished him, then he has the right to once again fit into society. László Kiss has created unique in his territory in the half century behind us. In other words, but similarly said János Lazarus at last Thursday's government info. According to the Minister, although, according to the Act on Honors, it is only in exceptional cases that a medal can be awarded to a person who has previously been convicted of committing a crime, I would add, regardless of whether he has already been exempted from the adverse consequences, I quote: with László Kiss, there are ten Olympic gold medals on the other side of the pan. I believe that the Hungarian Swimming Association and János Lázár, with these statements, sent a message to Hungarian society that rape and ten Olympic gold are on both sides of the frying pan. The Olympic gold, as it is said, weighs more than a group rape. These statements can also be interpreted as saying that the results that have been achieved since then have, in his view, corrected the former crime, and have been morally laundered. Sexual violence is considered a youthful slip-up, an apology, which, as it were, cannot overshadow the merits of a successful man. Now, if public figures and opinion leaders in responsible positions in Hungary have this attitude to violence against women, it is very difficult to fight in this area. Because society must see that there is zero tolerance against violence, no one can get acquittal, and it has to deal with the consequences. I would like to point out that it is highly unacceptable for politicians to have a representative or victim-faulting manifestation of the crime. And I must add that moving forward requires the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, of which the May Other Politics will not allow.
u2016-04-11-288	Thank you very much. Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, speaker after the last agenda of today:. Instead of a victim error, please send your order.
u2016-04-11-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to highlight another aspect of the Kiss László case in my speech, continuing the line of thought that my colleague Mr Bernadett Szél started. A number of opinions have been published on the case which are trying to put the gang rape that has been committed in context. Many have said that in the special world of swimming sports at that time, moral standards differ from accepted ones. The girls, I quote, were more available, the hunt continued endlessly, and did not fail. According to these opinions, the Kisses were just unlucky because they were caught, and even though they didn't commit violence, the parents pressure brought the case to justice. Such opinions, which portray the sports world as a particular subculture, where other norms, other rules are in place, are freer morals, relativity of violence, absolve the rapist and place responsibility on the victim. When the president of the Hungarian Swimming Association, Tamás Gyárfás, says that everyone knew, he just didn't say that Kiss had some kind of female affair, he basically says that swimming sports, although he knew about the case, didn't attach any importance to him, and neither did the management and coaching committee of the MSZ, because he unanimously gave László Kiss confidence when they voted to remove the federal captain. Several cases of sexual abuse or harassment in swimming sports have been revealed in the last ten years. Think of Nikolett Szepesi and his fellow swimmers, who have been harassed for decades by Uncle Kiss. UNICEF's 2014 report also paints a dark picture of the world of Hungarian sports. It says that 73 percent of Hungarian athletes are assaulted, 39 percent are physical violence, 31 percent are sexual harassment. No one doubts that violence occurs more frequently in the world of swimming sports, but that does not mean that violence here should be considered differently. It does not mean that violence by coaches and students or swimmers in groups would not be considered violence, it would not be a crime. It does not mean that the responsibility of the perpetrators can be passed on to the victim in any way. We should finally understand that violence in whatever environment it is, and whoever the perpetrator is, it's violence. Rapists aren't hunting and chasing boys, they're felony rapists, and victims aren't all girls, they're victims of violence. If we question all of this, it's nothing more than the relativisation of sin, the acquittal of the rapist, and the blame of the victim. Zero tolerance should be applied to all kinds of violence. The Hungarian Swimming Association, with the active involvement of the government, should take it seriously that swimming sports and general sport are particularly affected by such violent crimes. In cooperation with professional organisations, measures should be taken to ensure that such cases do not occur or remain secret. For example, more checks should be carried out, information lessons should be given to underage swimmers, information on the procedure to be followed in the event of violent advances, i.e. who they can turn to if similar things happen to them. Prevention programmes should be launched for young people, training should include ethical principles that should be applied in the context of the training course. I need to strengthen the psychological support of young swimmers, and I could list these further steps, but I'm sure the authorities should come up with that, you know. What we want to see is that the debates on sexual violence are finally not about who was and who was not to blame. Let's condemn violence and rapists without arguing, let's not base on such acts and stand up for the victim. Finally, let the debates be about how to prevent such cases from continuing to occur. We expect real action from the government and professional organisations. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-11-290	Thank you all very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Once again, thanking you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night. [[Meeting ended at 8:08 p.m.]]
