u2016-04-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. The 13th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Ádám Mirkóczki will be attending the meeting to help me. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m., and then from about 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m., the hour of immediate questions and answers will take place, and we will conclude the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Representative of the KDNP, Ms Rózsa Hoffmann, applied for a pre-meeting address on the international engagement of the Parliament. It's for the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, World history teaches, among other things, that foreign policy, diplomatic relations and external affairs can in general be decisive in the development of the fates of a nation or region. In peacetime, there is less domestic attention to international events, and so it is everywhere in the world. However, in changing times and times of war, the interest and activity of politicians are not only increased, but citizens' private conversations are also dominated by foreign policy issues that are frequently discussed in the media. This phenomenon can also be observed in Hungary in relation to issues of mass migration that exploded last year. It is therefore appropriate that more and more mention be made in the Parliament on issues of international relevance. I am putting in this line the draft law on foreign representations, which this House began to discuss last week. Perhaps I do not need to prove its importance, because it is obvious that our foreign policy and Hungary as a whole are constantly represented by our foreign service diplomats around the world. Their selection, training and good regulation of their activities are therefore key issues for the representation of our country's interests and values. Diplomacy has many dimensions, as we know. Perhaps the least of them are parliamentary diplomacy, although its importance in the democratic international area is indisputable. The Members of Parliament contribute to the service of Hungary's national goals through the cultivation of diverse contacts. Their personal relationships with the politicians of the world, their personal relationships, discussions and debates at conferences, assemblies, bilateral and multilateral official or friendly meetings are all aimed at understanding and evaluating Hungary's aspirations. This fine mission is naturally shared by the committed representatives of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Hungarian parliamentary diplomacy is extremely active. We have received many foreign guests and delegations in recent years. Only in 2015, 192 foreign delegations, of which 11 for international conferences. Special attention will be given to the issues of national policy and the EU. The former is illustrated by KMKF, the Forum of Representatives of the Carpathian Basin, held for the 11th time last weekend, on 31 March and 1 April. The bilateral members of Parliament, the Commissioner for Personality, work well. In addition to bilateral relations, our involvement in international parliamentary organisations is crucial. The Hungarian Parliament delegates permanent delegations to seven of them, including several Christian Democrats. These seven organisations are: the Interparlamental Union, the Council of Europe, NATO, OSCE, Central European initiatives, Frankofon and the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. Parliamentary diplomacy could only stumble if it were not an excellent helper of the Parliament's Foreign Affairs Directorate. It is also appropriate to thank all Members in this forum for their professional work, which has been highly evaluated in international circles, for the management and staff of the Management Board. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2016-04-04-2	Thank you very much. Who wants to respond on behalf of the government? [[For signal:]] Secretary Mikola, here you go.
u2016-04-04-3	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have already said many things in your speech, and if you will allow me, I will not go into the details you mentioned, since it would not fit in the five minutes, but I would like to highlight a few things. The growing international political challenges of recent years have offered foreign policy a large platter of opportunities that we are trying to seize. For the sixth year, the Hungarian government has represented the interests of Hungary and Hungarian citizens, both in bilateral relations and in the work of international organisations. As the Member referred to in her speech, we can interpret external relations in a number of dimensions, and they are not subject to each other and are superior. Although foreign policy is primarily the government's responsibility in the domestic public system, this work could not be done effectively by the Cabinet without the support of other public bodies. In the last year and a half, we have also enjoyed the assistance of Parliament in relation to our foreign policy activity. An excellent example of this diversity of diplomacy is the foreign relations activity of the Parliament, which effectively complements and assists the government's work. In any event, Mr Speaker, the international negotiations between house leaders and Members, participation in the Interparlamentary Union or the functioning of friendly sections are to be highlighted. I had the opportunity to attend several major international political conferences, hosted by the Hungarian Parliament. Among these, special mention should be given to the organisation of the 2015 spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, during which some 260 delegates of the 28 Member States of the Transatlantic Organisation were hosted by this Parliament. These are important cornerstones of Hungary's foreign policy activity, which are essential for the completion of the new dynamic Hungarian external relations structure. As she has indicated, proactive participation in international organisations is also a special priority in parliamentary diplomacy. Similarly, the Government places great emphasis on the continuing deepening of relations with international organisations. Within this framework, several UN specialised institutions have decided to choose Budapest as the seat of its professional and service centre. The fact that the United Nations Children's Fund, UNICEF's global service centre, has moved to Hungary is an outstanding success in recent years. They're almost finished moving, they've chosen their coworkers, and they've started working. [[11.10]] Currently, several UN specialised organisations are operating in Budapest and are under development. This is where the Danube Commission, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, the FAO's regional professional office and joint service centre - we are now expanding their offices - operates; this is where the regional professional office and joint service centre of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the UNHCR is operating; there are also significant expansions in their offices and activities in Budapest today. This is where the World Health Organization, the WHO Regional Office, operates, and from 1 January of the following year Kuala Lumpur, the World Service Center will also move to the WHO. The negotiations on this matter are now under way, with good hopes in the negotiations. The Office of the International Labour Organisation, the ILO, operates here, now we are expanding the regional office of the International Red Cross Committee, the regional professional office of the International Federation of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent companies, and it is also under construction; the office of the International Migration Organisation is operating here, and the latest news: last year's successful office of the International Telecommunications Association - which is currently modest - is open in Budapest, but in their perspective plans they wish to set up a regional centre for this 150-year-old, very important organization in Budapest. We're partners in this, too. However, we continue to negotiate with several global organisations with good prospects. There has been an increase in the desire to move to Budapest, a doorknob given to each other by UN specialized organisations, and there is a good hope that Hungary will indeed enjoy a central position in relation to UN specialized organisations. On behalf of the Government, I would also like to thank the Parliament for its active foreign policy work, which will be a great help to the performance of our tasks, and I ask that parliamentary diplomacy continue to help our work and give priority to our external relations for the international success of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, spoke before the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I was going to speak to you most of all, because the question I'm asking is, is this the kind of country you want to leave behind? Do you want a Hungarian country like the one you're developing now? Practically you can see what's going on, the second phase of the field privatization ended at the end of March, and you can see that the Hungarian countryside will be the country of public workers, emigrants and the Mészáros Lőrincek and Csányik, and this is what awaits the Hungarian countryside, which is what you are promoting. Obviously, there are a lot of questions about land auctions, and we have a lot of experience. One of these experiences, which has been discussed several times before, is the training of goldfish farmers. With the training of the goldfish farmers, people now buy land without ever dealing with agriculture before, and they didn't have any specific business with the land. Please, in 1847 the law was changed in Hungary so that the serfs could have land. Now you're going back to the pre- 1847 state where you can't just buy land, just the one who buys you the goldfish course. Practically the one with the money, the one who can pay to get a 150-180-200-320 thousand forints in a few weeks can buy the land you sell, and all the other social segments can't. This is the right line that was supposed to be eliminated in 1847, and the legislative changes would have allowed anyone to have access to the ground. And this is not the only way the Hungarian feudal system is modeled back. What we are looking at is that if we sum up the results of the auctions so far, it is now clear that 45 families are interested, so 2 percent of all customers have won 18 percent of the total land. If we look at who the biggest customer is, 13 percent, then we can see that they took 60 percent of the area. And if you look at 27 percent, you can say that they took 80 percent of the land, so that means that 63 percent of the customers took only 20 percent of the land. This 63 percent was your target group when they announced this measure and promised that it would be possible for them to buy the land. Instead, we got the Butcher Lawrence. And it is obvious that this is a mistake when we see that it is István Jakab, the leader of Magos, who deceives and betrays the Hungarian countryside, who, in the time of the MSZP governments, claimed that it would be a fatal mistake to sell the state land, the one who, in 2012, told the newspaper Democrat that there are many cooperative alliances throughout the Western Europe, and that our competitors are successful; now he is talking about things that are contrary. This is what he has just said in his statement: the increasing domestic and EU competition, or even the forthcoming free trade agreement with the United States, justifies the continuation of land privatisation. He referred to the Free Trade Convention, which your MEPs supported. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Shame!]] [[Dr. András Schiffer: Shame!]] I want it to be a sequel. It is your government that does not veto, and István James is able to do so. (Dr. András Schiffer: Shame!) But I ask you, how many times does Magos spit in his face? And now, when he announces this, he also announces that, at the same time, in the third round of unsold areas, with so much difference that farmers can bid on larger areas together. And he makes all this declaration by not mentioning the word "cooperative" in one case, in one case he does not speak about what he did in 2012 so that Hungarian countryside and agriculture can be built together with a good agricultural integration law and a good cooperative law. That is why we need what the May Other in Politics has started, which is why we need to reduce the land ceiling for individual land. That is why it is necessary that two or three children do not have a Lőrinc Mészáros over 1500 hectares, and that he cannot continue to increase the property structure that was last seen in 35 years. The property structure of 1935 is what you're doing with sales at the moment. It was the same year that 1.7 percent of the owners owned 55 percent of the land. This is the big estate structure you're building, and that's the property structure you're promoting by privatization of land. And it's obvious that they're not doing anything of what they promised. They promised to finish this madness by 31 December - they did not; they sell and sell again and again until everything is sold. They said there was a lot of interest. Now the second round of sales closes in such a way that they can sell 50-60 percent, there are no bidders in many cases. They promised fair market prices while giving the land to Mátyás Bekecs, the minister's nephew, for 186 thousand forints per hectare. They promised that there would be no land for foreigners, while almost most of Somogy's areas were taken away by people from the Member States. I am asking you, if you have any decency left, to stop this land privatisation and do not continue until the referendum has delivered an opinion on this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You, to live with the words of one of your ministers, have not simply pushed the bike on this subject; it is now time to shift the bike. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-04-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay Márton Örs will answer. Before I give you the floor, on your behalf, I would like to welcome the students of Sághy Mihály Secondary School and the teachers from Csongrád. I'm glad you're here. Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-04-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I have to try to be very calm when I'm listening to your words, because you're talking nonsense that's almost outrageous, and I can't overlook it, but it's very difficult to argue with someone who doesn't know the facts at this level, at least to have a sensible debate, but if you'll allow me, I'll try to respond to some of the things you've suggested here. It says that the land sale programme is harmful to Hungarian farmers and Hungarian agriculture. Be kind, tell me why the farmers bought those 17,000 estates. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] if it's so harmful, 180,000 hectares. Dear Congressman, 180,000 hectares, 19 thousand estates, more than 10,000 buyers - if this were to be so bad, we would obviously not be able to meet these numbers. But, by the way, if it's harmful, then I've prescribed it to myself: do you know what's harmful, Congressman? On the one hand, you want to introduce a land tax, and on the other hand, it's harmful, in the LMP program, which you have been kind enough to share with us, because it doesn't lead to anyone, that's for sure; it doesn't lead to small farmers. [[Dr. András Schiffer and Sallai R. Benedek will intervene.]] It is certainly not in the interest of the medium-sized, the large, the Hungarian agricultural society. He says that gold-gold farmers bought on these estates. Dear Congressman, I would like to tell you that every ten Hungarian farmers have bought land; there are 100,000 farmers, 10 thousand of them have bought it, so every ten Hungarian farmers have bought it. I would just like to mention one number to you, which is a very important figure: over 71.5 thousand hectares were purchased by young farmers only. [[11.20]] I hope that's okay, the LMP program doesn't contradict it, and neither does the government's program, which reflects this number. You mentioned foreign buyers. Dear Congressman, On the one hand, no foreigner has ever acquired property, so there is no need to rush the process. If that's important to you, tell your good friends, but we're not here yet. Foreigners haven't bought any land yet. And the huge number that you said was that 24 foreign citizens took part in the auction, they had a total of 1900 hectares, versus 180,000 hectares, and 56 versus 19 thousand, which they actually bid on, and most of the offers were offered. I would also like to remind you that a buyer has acquired an average of 40 hectares of land in holdings over 3 hectares. It's over three acres, and I don't want to mix the three acres, because on average, a customer can barely reach the 10 hectares he bought. But it's another genre, all right, let's not mix that up. Honourable Congressman, What I would like to suggest to you is that this is like a Hungarian football analysis culture, that we are trying to explain on television, by the way, not much success as a football player, why Real Madrid or Barcelona's tactics are wrong. Be kind, Congressman, give a little more attention than you can say. The task is not to try to squander a government program at all costs, but to try to respond substantially to what is the actual data. You can't respond to them. You can tell us that land taxes, land taxes, land taxes, we understand that, but we don't want it, we don't want it, and you take out three customers who, for some reason, don't like you, and you tell us why you bought it. In the meantime, while we have made it clear, our aim is to make 20 percent of the size of large plants and 80 percent of the size of family farms. No one ever said that 20 percent of the major plant wasn't necessary. No one ever told me not to buy from those who are farmers, and now use land. I would just like to say to you that you should take account of the legislation and take into account the fact that on this land programme almost 19 thousand owners bought more than 10,000 landowners. I can't understand why you don't like this, while you applied for land leases yourself. He's got a big smile on his head. Six months ago, she didn't smile at him when she explained on television, but time makes everything beautiful. So you applied for it yourself, and you didn't have to apply for 1,400 acres. What's the problem with that now? I don't see why there's a problem with over 10,000 farmers buying in this program. Dear Congressman, The Hungarian agricultural society and the strengthening of the agricultural middle class are in line with this programme, the Hungarian agricultural society is happy with this programme, and many of them have bought it, and if there are next rounds, we hope they will buy more. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad you're happy for each other, and on your behalf, I'm glad that it's part of the 16th century. The students of the Serbian Antal High School and the teachers' colleagues have also arrived. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Mr László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "The Weekend of Surprises in Quaestor." Here you go.
u2016-04-04-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, Last week, Minister of State Magyar Levente, if I may say so, did not understand what the actuality of the Quaestor case was. He probably doesn't read the Hungarian newspapers. Last week, the Quaestor victims were informed of how much you're planning, how much the government is giving them from the compensation fund. They're still putting a lot less effort into finding out where the Quaestor fortune is. However, from the government funds and from the loan of the Hungarian National Bank, they have now learned how much the Hungarian government intends for them. He didn't know that. He didn't understand. That's okay. It was this weekend that I was expecting. It was expected that a lot of people would receive terrible bad news from the compensation fund in which the Hungarian National Bank put the public money, as there was already a court ruling on this, and this could be expected. It was expected that even you couldn't pay 130 billion forints out of 57 billion forints, and a lot of people won't get their money. We've encountered terrible life situations. And what couldn't be expected is that the Metropolitan Tribunal will return its indictment to the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office as it is. The Metropolitan Tribunal said that the Metropolitan Attorney General didn't provide enough evidence to allow them to begin the procedure. Who's in charge of stalling, let's all decide for ourselves. Let's go first. On Friday, about 32,000 victims were informed of how much the fund created by the Hungarian state in law intended for their compensation, since, as I will explain later where the Quaestor fortune is and where it may have appeared, they have to settle there with rather clear but not complicated sentences in terms of legal judgement. This fund does not offer more than 10,000 victims a single forint in compensation. Not a single one! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. A lot of people came to us this weekend, and we were faced with terrible fates. Of course, some people have lost more than HUF 20 million, some people have lost more, but some people care for their mother, they live on care allowance, and now they have managed to tell you that they get zero forints for their claim for the 300,000 forints. He needed 300,000 forints, he needed this world. However, on 20 November, Viktor Orbán said in the news - I will quote literally - that we should not think about general compensation, but that we should develop a system of accurate accounting, which is not a simple legal and accounting task. There are two options in this: either you have failed to jump on this difficult legal and accounting task, and the other option, which I think is far more likely that you have simplified it indefinitely. In six rows, you've been able to contact 32,000 victims in six lines in a row. Six meaningful lines of how much your investment was, how much you took off, how much you paid back, and how much you owe them. More than 10,000 citizens, more than 10,000 victims, have been told that a penny is no longer due to them. Here, I would refer back to the statements of State Secretary Völner in the debate that this law is very fair. I do not wish for you, Mr. Secretary, but neither of you to be as fair to the state as you are to these victims. I think the victims are starting to think that you guys would rather not have been so reasonable. How can they check that back? Secretary of State, I don't. There's no way they can check it back because there's no such thing. And on the indictment, the joy was premature, let's face it. They said that no one had ever prosecuted such a case so quickly, and then, as it was, the court dismissed the indictment because the evidence on which the charge was based failed to be properly presented. Don't be surprised. The D.A. says that you have to settle for it, and the victims have to accept that 46.6 billion forints have been lost in the funding of losses. Were these offshore companies? Were they the same offshore companies that we have now found out that from Panama to Nevada to Kecskemét, to Zsolt Horváth, we have managed to deliver money and positions to everyone? Were they like offshore companies? Was there public money there? The Ministry of Agriculture lost 410 million forints, but even the Ministry of Foreign Affairs lost the return of this 3.8 billion forints. These are the questions that concern us and concern the victims. Thank you for your patience.
u2016-04-04-10	Thank you very much. State Secretary Pál Völner responds on behalf of the government. Here.
u2016-04-04-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Several issues have been addressed by Mr Quaestor. Sometimes he treated the matter as if he were not aware of the facts, although we have dealt with a number of issues several times in the debates that have been held over the past period, and we have clarified the positions. We all know that on 17 November 2015, the Constitutional Court made a decision on the Quaestor victims, with which the legislator's hand was practically tied, and designated the framework by which the legal settlement of claims could be implemented. When we say that the settlement of claims is fair, what we mean by it is that in the context of the previous legislative environment, including in the legislative context of the MSZP period, this settlement could not have been carried out to this extent. Just because the value of the claims settlement threshold was raised from HUF 6 million to HUF 30 million, it provided much more opportunities than before. [[11.30]] The fact that the Constitutional Court has stated a ban on so-called damages, i.e. those who, in the previous period, have used the returns in addition to the particularly high returns promised by Quaestor, should therefore be corrected for the amount of claims settlement. This means that practically these amounts could not have been taken into account by the legislator when the legislation was drawn up, so the compensation fund itself could not settle. It would then lead to another decision by the Constitutional Court, in which the provisions on this matter would be annulled by the Constitutional Court. Parliament has just applied a kind of positive discrimination to the victims, so they could receive more compensation than they could have achieved in an winding-up procedure or otherwise. The Member also touched upon the ongoing criminal proceedings, on which we all know neither the government nor the Ministry of Justice has the power, nor even the Parliament, to take a stand or take any decision in a dispute between the prosecutor's office and the court. [[Dr. László Kács: He has no opinion.]] So this case... His opinion may, of course, be for a Member, and I will obviously include some of the facts that have been published in the press, so he could also be informed on these issues, where the matter is, what is the essence of the interpretation of the law between the two organisations, and what is it that they do not agree on. It is well known that the sums lost in the Quaestor case are being investigated by both the insolvencyist and the investigating authorities, the prosecutor's office or even the court, and it will come to light, which can be found out in the case and within the legal framework. But the point of the interpretation of the law itself is that, from the more than a thousand pages of the prosecution's indictment, the court lacks lists which, according to the prosecution's legal interpretation, would not be practical, either under the law of criminal proceedings or for practical reasons, since such a amount of data would render the indictment itself inaccessible. There are more than 6 million transactions, so a list of them would obviously not allow quick and efficient administration. However, the extent of the damage suffered alone is sufficient to impose an appropriate penalty. I mean, we're investigating embezzlement, fraud and other crimes in a criminal organization. According to the prosecution's interpretation, the court didn't drop the indictment, but returned it to fill in the gap, asking for certain additions, which the prosecutor's office would obviously, if justified, and if it were within the framework of the indictment, it would do. In the case, 132 thousand pages of investigative documents were created, just to show the weight of the case, the length of the data, so it is obvious that a kind of wording will be necessary to make it clear that the 1500 pages that were included in the indictment can be processed for both the court and the parties. Where the wealth has gone, I believe, will be a lengthy and thorough discussion of the procedure by the defenders when they intend to prove the innocence of their defendants. We'll wait for that, and then we'll be able to give you information about it. But the case itself, as I said, is the law itself, the compensation fund settles it in the most reasonable way we can achieve. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-04-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Speaking before the agenda, Mr György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, spoke with the title:. Zsolt Horváth, Victoria, Mahé, Seychelles, Suite 9, Ansuya Estate, Revolution Avenue. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We are well aware that despite the sound of words and promises, corruption has increased during the Fidesz government. This is why Jobbik for Hungary Movement It launches an immediate series of questions with 50 shades of corruption. It hasn't been easy to choose these 50 cases from hundreds of thousands of cases linked to your name in the past. The best way to get rid of corruption money is to create offshore companies that are trying to disappear from the Hungarian tax administration.2010. On the 10th of V., at the inaugural session of the Parliament, Viktor Orbán inspired his supporters who welcomed the change of government, with good reason and right. I quote: "We will defeat property problems, the techniques of abuse of power, attempts to escape responsibility, we will defeat the practices of offshore knights and undeserving government payments. We will defeat the corruption and waste of the nation's capital, we will defeat the past, because Hungary has unitedly decided that - he said - we must defeat it. From here, none of this has been accomplished in your time. Nothing happened except that fidesz buddies and friends, relatives, vassals were very, very good. However, the soundy words are not over here, as the Prime Minister also said in 2013. CHAPTER III The Hungarians, the Honourable House, are also determined to squeeze the trick out of the use of public funds. It is almost unanimous that Hungarian taxpayers' money cannot be disposed of through offshore companies, for example, as it has become a daily practice in the previous era. The Jobbik found out that they were still lying words. With my colleague János Volner 2013. ANNEX II On the 13th, a series of written questions were submitted. We have never received a substantive answer to our questions, although we have listed the entities that, despite the provisions of the Fundamental Law, received several tens of billions of HUF support as an opaque organisation. As a result of this case, the National Development Agency has been obliterated by you because you have admitted that we are right and that all your work on development resources has been removed from the Minister. But let's see the facts of the last day. According to news, Zsolt Horváth, who has been your representative for 16 years, is a Fidesz MP, owner of the Mayer & Collins Trading Company, a company based in the Seychelles, based in Suite 9, Ansuya Estate, Revolution Avenue. On 27 March 2013, when we asked about the 74 offshore organizations receiving non-refundable EU grants, there was an MK-Property 101 Real Estate Marketing Ltd. between 74. So do I. This won HUF 171 million in non-refundable funding. I think you'll be surprised at the title of the organization's seat, since the organization's headquarters is called Suite 9, Ansuya Estate, Revolution Avenue. It's the same as what you've just heard; so it's registered exactly where Mr Horváth's company is registered. It is also interesting not to say that it is a yelling fact that the seat of the MK-Property in Hungary was registered to where do you think it was registered? For goat's sake. To the Kecskemét until August 2013, where Congressman Horváth was your Fidesz Member of Parliament. Then there is another company, the Human-Rent Service Provider, which won HUF 100 million in non-refundable money. The owner is also registered to this address in the Seychelles. Then we found another very interesting company at this address. Do you know what this company's name is? Fidelity Corporate Services. The question is whether you have anything to do with this company, the main activity of which is to fund offshore companies, help offshore companies to dispose of their money. Now, please, it is clear to me that there is no sustainable development here, there is nothing to catch up on. It is about some Fidesz prominents or even the Fidesz themselves filling their own pockets, ignoring the interests of the country in their own self-interests. That's the real corruption, that's the mafia. The representatives of Jobbik are signing a statement today stating that they are not members and do not own offshore companies. I ask you, if you have nothing to hide, then you will sign this statement. We will get it to the faction, and the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will submit a legislative amendment to ensure that Members who have such offshore companies lose their mandate immediately. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-14	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, responds. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-15	Honourable Congressman, As you may have referred to, before the current government took office in 2010, it was common practice to move public funds out of the country through offshore companies. [[11.40]] Under left-wing governments, billions of HUF landed in untaxed foreign bank accounts, often known to the country's leaders. We remember very well that Gábor Simon was in charge of the MSZP with an offshore black belt. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, including: Talk about yourself! Don't do it!]] Moreover, the left also gave the country a prime minister whose home had an offshore background, not only its companies, but also its apartment. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You've just mentioned Fidesz, haven't you noticed?]] Therefore, when he took office, the current government set the objective of abolishing this practice. As a result, companies starting in public procurements must now indicate their owner. Earlier, honourable left-wing Members, this was not a regulation. Based on previous practice, transfers could also be used in public procurement, and no real owners had to be revealed. Therefore, even offshore companies could sometimes cut out a large proportion of public procurement. For this reason, it is a serious achievement that in Hungary today not only who is running in public procurement, who wins an order, but also who owns the company. Greater transparency is also targeted at the introduction of online cash registers and the new public procurement law, which is one of the strictest in Europe. [[Constant noise from the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Honourable Congressman, One of those [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Béla Kovács...]] Speaking on behalf of the Party today, which is political [[The president's ringing the bell.]] offshore's largest base in Hungary, because we still don't know how much money their MEP accused of espionage has made, and that's why [[Deterioration from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]] What they asked for in return. We don't even know how much money was moving. [[György Szilágyi: Bravo!]] If transparency is really important to you, then you will also clarify why company cemeteries were needed in the vicinity of one of your fellow Members in order to avoid tax. So if you'd like to sign statements, you're going to have to do it first and foremost in these matters. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. György Szilágyi: We sign it. You guys gonna sign it? Dóra Dúró: He was very weak! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's why being Secretary of State is embarrassing! It's not worth it!]]
u2016-04-04-16	Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament, asked for the title of Dénes Csengey, engaged to reality, on the 25th anniversary of his death. Mr. Vice President, please.
u2016-04-04-17	Mr President, Dear young and long-term young fellow Members, Dénes Chengey left when he was 38 years old. In addition to his work as a writer, he was part of our struggle to establish a civil democratic order; he was part of the formation of the Hungarian Democratic Forum, our political movement founded in Lakitelek in 1987. On the 25th anniversary of his death, I now highlight one day from the history days we shared. On 15 March 1989 György Cserhalmi, actor, read our claim to 12 points at the opposition memorial organised in Budapest on the Szabadság Square. The demands included the authorisation of a multiparty system, the establishment of a parliamentary rule of law, the provision of conditions for freedom of speech and freedom of the press, the withdrawal of occupying Soviet troops, the declaration of a national festival on 23 October and the introduction of a national crest which is true to our historical traditions. Dénes Csengey then gave his memorable speech on the desirable operation of the public television and symbolically occupied the Hungarian Television Liberty Square building for the benefit of the nation. Dénes Chengey hoped that in the process of the negotiations for free elections, free press and television, independent of the government, but under social control, would be created and served as a peaceful transition. He could not have foreseen that, through the false pact concluded above our heads, television would fall into the hands of a narrow political group, a hate group that would not even convey the oath of the first freely elected government. Dénes Csengey clearly felt that Hungary's economic and political potential alone was limited to emerge from the ruins of the socialist system in crisis. We must approach the developed European countries and not only us, but also the other former socialist countries in Central and Eastern Europe. The Christian Europe of the then developed Europe, Adenauer and Schuman, was much more popular in our country than today's European Union, which denies Christianity, which enriches the bureaucracy of Brussels in the eyes of today's population. Dénes Chengey saw well that the interest of the approach was also in the Western countries, which need to be renewed. As he wrote, Europe is not where it is ready, where it works; where it is prepared, where it wants to be, where it is painfully fleeing, where the heart of Europe is most loud. His prediction has been spookily fulfilled today in its threatening reality of the migrant flood, in a fragmented Europe. Today, the V4 countries, the Visegrád Group, are clearly doing the most for the renewal of the European Union, for a secure Christian Europe, with the hope of further cooperation and a healthy sense of danger. Dénes Chengey's famous sentence became a hospice for Europe, but all of them. This sentence also meant that there will be no first- and second-rate European citizens; it also meant that there will be no two-speed Europe. This sentence meant the peaceful unification of our Hungarian nation over borders in a common Europe. This sentence also reported that all Hungarians must also ensure a civil European living environment of our own strength, so that we do not remain Europe's poor house, and that we do not remain a fraudulent, privatised country. Dénes Chengey worked tirelessly, wrote, talked, negotiated, did not spare his health, and this cost him his young life. His memory is not fading, today he bears the name of a library, elementary school, cultural house, wandering university, prosaic and poetic meeting. We, the survivors, are responsible for the failures of the last quarter of a century, and the results are thanks to him. For him, too, our former MDF fellow Member, my fellow generation, the well-remembered Dénes Csengey. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-04-18	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the EMMI, please.
u2016-04-04-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, Dear House, It's always uplifting to remember changing shape. We thank the Vice-President for his speech on Dénes Csengey, the change of regime and the time since then.In 1990, Hungary became dizzy in the free world, but many who helped this country write down a very winding and difficult course until they could be there in 89, they could be there at the time of the change of regime. Dénes Csengey, too, was a Hungarian-history major, but the system did not allow him to be fully published as a writer, but he had to be an assistant worker, an auto mechanic, an insurance agent, a factory worker, and a lot of other things to support himself and his loved ones during that period. But that didn't prevent him from being at the Lakitelek meeting in 87 and becoming one of the decisive figures and historians of the period of regime change. But we can also remember him as a person with excellent rhetorical abilities, a playwright, a writer, or a songwriter of Tamás Cseh. Many people make the process of changing the regime as if it were a process carried out by an external force. Obviously, there were external factors in this, whether we think of Ronald Reagan, II. To John Paul or Margaret Thatcher, who truly had a world political role in the transition of Central Europe from Soviet oppression to the free world, taking their place in the ranks of democratic states. But regardless, we needed Dénes Csengey, and many others who had already fought for a free Hungary before the change of regime, so that we, ourselves, could have the opportunity to decide our own fate, to do so in free elections. Those who wish to put Hungarian people's active participation in the background in general, and explain the freedom of the Central European peoples, including Hungary, only by overturning foreign policy, world political forces and balances, often have done so in the last 25 years because they might have had to acknowledge their former activities and should have judged themselves within the then party of state. That is why they said that this was more of a result of external circumstances, because otherwise, if this were the result of the struggle and struggle of inner humans, then those on the other side of the barricade should also be judged for themselves. [[11.50]] At the same time, the change of regime brought national independence, private property, multi-party system, free choice, freedoms, speech, congregational and religious freedom, all that determine our lives to the day. This is what created Hungary's expansion. Perhaps Communism has never been able to paint Hungary red, because people have not been able to identify themselves in large masses and millions of people with that ideology, they have only endured - so that they can live here in Hungary, in their homeland - the rule of the Communists. However, if not red, they were able to turn Hungary into gray; and from this greyness, the change of regime was able to bring Hungary back on the road to development, colourization and expansion. It is enough to go down the streets of Budapest, on the streets of rural cities, and to see what diversity has replaced Hungary in the former deficit economy, which has turned grey, and now Hungary is able to stand up for its own rights with a straight back, proudness, and even on current world politics issues. The Member, Mr Vice-President, also referred to the issue of immigration. Hungary is worthy of the dreams at that time, if it can stand up and fight for its own interests here, even passionately, because the XXI. The 20th century will show no greater interest in the suffering or problems of Hungarians than in the 20th century. Company. Therefore, instead of a culture of complaining, Hungary must follow a culture of interest and representation. In closing, allow me to conclude with a quote from the Chengey Denes. Let's just think about how he described this 25 years ago, what would happen after the change of regime in Hungary, and whether the dangers, the thoughts he described in these few lines, were as good as they stood for 25 years in the future:, This country is ours. In poverty, freedom. Love? It wouldn't hurt to keep the angel between us until we share. You can help us out with good advice at a passionate moment. There's gonna be a lot on the table. And there will be very little to share in the end. No one's demands will be met. We can predict that no one will really be fed. But we are not going to rush to Hungary. We're not gonna maul it. Right? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-04-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It was a fair thing to do. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Congressman Zoltán Gógös applied in order of business. I'd like to ask you for what reason. [[Zoltán Pride: Personal!]] You have one minute, please.
u2016-04-04-21	On April 20, 2015, I accused L. Simon László of stealing 1 billion in public. I take that false statement back, and I apologize to him. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Pál Völner: Long live!]]
u2016-04-04-22	Dear Parliament, I will then ask Mr István Tiba to present the list of speakers after the agenda. Mr. Messenger, please.
u2016-04-04-23	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Előd Novák, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2016-04-04-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:53 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Mr Nándor Gúr K/9874. Mr Seszták, Minister for National Development, is not in the role of the recipient. Dear Parliament, Member István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. This is what speeding up means? When will the Eötvös School of Városnámény finally be covered? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I have already asked Mr. Secretary of State here in Parliament about the school in Városnámény. To remind everyone what this is about: last summer, the top of this school was damaged by the storm. The restoration work at the end of last year was that nothing had happened at the time. At that time, Mr. Secretary of State assured me that education was running smoothly. Well, if it can be called undisturbed, that some of the children are not studying in their school, but in many other places, then surely our concepts differ in the smoothness of education. I asked Mr. Secretary of State and the wallet in writing, and at the beginning of the year the joyful news reached me that they had already asked for entrepreneurial offers. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There's a reason I'm pushing this school's case. Not only to be renovated, restored, but also to show that the maintenance of schools by the state and, in particular, the operation of the KLIK are catastrophic. A mayor can't afford not to restore the storm-damaged school within a closed deadline, knowing that he's not the mayor of the city in the next term if he'd take so long and postpone it. Even so, this superoffice or supercentral couldn't make this school okay in six months. Dear Secretary of State, So I would look forward to hearing more about what is happening in this school, and I would ask my fellow Members to understand that I try to show the operation of the Klebelsberg Institute through such examples. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-04-04-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am pleased to inform the Member that the gym is covered, because there has been a very long period of time, especially from a legal point of view, or a long time. A public procurement procedure started in December 2015. This had to be approved on a legal and technical basis. You know that if we hadn't done this, the opposition would attack the government to see why it doesn't carry out the necessary procurement procedures and why the investment is not transparent. When the time limit for the submission of tenders expired, on 9 February, the evaluation was carried out on that day. So when all of them came in and the deadline was up, the institutionkeeper that he could do, he did it the fastest. There was, of course, an appeal deadline, but as soon as it expired, the contract was signed on 4 March that day. Since then, the overlap of the gym and the polycarbonate cover of the old building wing as well as the roof of the new building wing have been completed, thus the leaking of the building has ceased. At present, internal work is being carried out in the building, replacing and repairing plasterboard insulations, internal windows, changing casings or pulling wires. According to the district, the work is progressing at a good pace, and the contractor will be able to keep the deadline, which is 10 May, so the problem itself has disappeared. We thank everyone who, in this period of time, may not have been in the school building, but to a few buildings away from it, in other public institutions, to attend one or another class, or to hold one or another hour. Obviously, such a storm, such a damage event, is inevitably followed by construction works, and a construction work involves public procurement, but what we could do was speed up the events, so this gym is covered, and we hope that everyone will soon be able to move back to their original place, to the gym, to other halls, and to continue teaching. In the original place, the teaching continued, of course, during the transitional period, with other space assignments. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-04-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister:. Who and how does he ask the Hungarian people about the uninvited aliens? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr.Antal Rogán, Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, answers the question. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2016-04-04-29	Mr President, Dear House, Jobbik absolutely supports the political direction in Hungary to stand up to all kinds of resettlement mechanisms as hard as possible, and on the Brussels stage, replacing the previous chariots with tanks after battle axes, Hungary really does reach a position in order to prevent uninvited aliens from being deployed here. At the same time, we see that, although the government seemed to move in this direction in communication, it is building migrant farms in Körmend, Szentgotthárd, and it is reported that Kiskunhalas is not closing, but is expanding the institution that can enrich itself with hundreds of new seats and may also be perceived as a distress signal, but also as a correct response that it has taken further steps to strengthen the physical border lock, as we can see that, despite the hermetically occurring lock, the infiltration is continuing. [[12.00]] However, we also see that we would have a political nuclear weapon, which would be a national referendum proposed by Jobbik six months ago, with a five-month phase delay by the government, and this would be a national referendum not only concerning the compulsory resettlement quota, but also any quota-like mechanism. When we talk about all kinds of mechanisms, we include, in addition to the various mutations in quota, the issue of deportations, where the government also does not have a fully developed mechanism. This is why we are confused about the fact that our fundamental amendment to the national referendum has been canceled by the Fidesz-KDNP majority committee, which is why the question arises: how has the government, which has been very silent in the last one or two weeks, intended to achieve the will of the people, thus being open to Jobbik's initiative, whose aim - I would like to stress once again - is that they cannot uninvited any aliens to Hungary? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-30	Thank you very much. Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds. Here.
u2016-04-04-31	Honourable Congressman, In the view of the government, it is not possible to make decisions over the heads of people that fundamentally determine the future of Europe. The decision-makers in Brussels are not authorised to do so. This is why the Cabinet challenged last year's Council decision on compulsory resettlement quotas at the European Court of Justice and therefore acts with all possible means against any future permanent form of compulsory distribution. Over the last few months, we have seen that although it often seemed that the quota proposals had been thrown out of the window, they always crawled back and forth through the window. For this reason, it remains a priority that the Hungarian people reject the resettlement quota in the referendum. This is more important than ever. I would also like to add, Mr President, that if there is no quota, there will be no need for the camps you mentioned. As far as the question raised in the referendum is concerned, the government has already taken the necessary steps. The National Election Committee has already validated the government's referendum initiative. Jobbik would have had the opportunity to submit its own question, but it did not do so, regardless of which your party is free to express its opinion on this important issue by any means possible here in the Parliament, because every party's opinion is important when it comes to a matter that can determine the fate of Europe and Hungary in it for decades. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-04-32	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: why should families be able to cope with government irresponsibleness and corruption? It's an address. It's for the congressman. Here.
u2016-04-04-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Information has recently been made public that the Commission's decision has ordered the retention of an EU budget of HUF 40 billion because there are suspected abuses around payments that have already attracted the Commission's interest. As a result of the procedure, the penalty is expected to amount to a minimum of HUF 3-8 billion, and the EU seems to be sick of not being able to understand the payments of the Hungarian EU application system. There is a long list of examples showing many of these suspicious cases. European Union money is disappearing, my colleague Ákos Hadházy is covering up these cases from week to week, and we do not see a meaningful government reaction to this other than apologizing. What we do not see is that they will face this problem and that something needs to be done, because some of these abuses are not directly related to the government, while another part is obviously affected. Here was the specific example of the playground scandal, of which we still do not know any concrete results. More than HUF 1.7 billion of public money, the Hungarian taxpayer's money, had to be repaid to the European Union because people disappeared with its resources, and there is no way to know where it has gone. Similarly, it is not possible to know how the 471 million website of the Chamber of Agriculture will be paid. Here, the Pesti Guys, who are relatively close to government or government, have discussed this measure, and we do not really see what will happen to it. The EU is providing resources to Hungary so that the country can develop and catch up. It comes from the fact that the Hungarian government is of age and can handle this money responsibly, while in many cases the opposite is revealed. Do managing authorities, where they control these programmes, have any responsibility for these clearing problems? Is the Prime Minister's Office looking for where and how these are going to happen? Who doesn't notice overpriced and abuse, fixed public procurement? What does the Prime Minister's Office do to make less of this happen in the next period? I look forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-04-04-34	Thank you very much. Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2016-04-04-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Thank you for the opportunity to talk about EU funds. You are one of the Members who are usually prepared for their questions, unfortunately you have not done so now. Because if it had, it would have known that the European Union would have held back 5% of the envelope from all Member States until May 2017, until the financial closure. But what has happened in Hungary since 2007? In 2007, the European Union concluded a bad development policy agreement with the then government of Hungary, a development cycle that lacked government objectives. Hungary could use HUF 8600 billion in total. Since we knew that the programmes planned in 2007 were not good, the Hungarian budget had a margin of manoeuvre, and the government also had the intention to allocate more resources to applicants, the difference being financed by the Hungarian budget. Instead of HUF 8600 billion, we have concluded a grant agreement of HUF 9500 billion, and we have paid HUF 9200 billion to applicants in order to make a difference between the EU's money and the money paid. It is 200 billion forints that are in dispute between the European Union and us in terms of financial closure, so we can guarantee that we will bring back 100% of the funds. If the European Commission says that there has been a specific irregularity somewhere, it could only hold back funds by identifying the person responsible for this particular error. In this case, the government does not have an opportunity, but has an obligation to reclaim the money, so the Hungarian families do not have to take on any burden that is not justified, because if any irregularities occur, the Hungarian government will comply with its obligation and demand all the money back. Thanks to the fact that we have a HUF 600 billion extra mobility space, however much of the debate will be concluded in the financial accounts until May 2017, Hungary will fulfill its commitment in 2010 to bring every euro cent back from Brussels in connection with the use of EU funds. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-04-36	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Attila Tilki, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister without a wallet for national policy:. Improved relations with Transcarpathia. Congressman Tilki has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Hungarian Socialist Party no longer wants to or does not want to remember the day of 5 December 2004, when, under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, our Hungarian brothers across the border were openly denied. For us, who stood and stand up for exclusion and for our Hungarian brothers, this day is an indelible, sad memory. There is no other party that has so spectacularly denied its fellow nations. As a representative of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, as a representative of a constituency whose eastern neighbour is Transcarpathia, after this series of events, it was particularly difficult for us to face the dismal glances and comments of our relatives and friends in Transcarpathia. The third government of Viktor Orbán considers it one of the most important tasks of promoting the well-being of Hungarians across the border. We do not forget that in 2010 Tibor Szanyi, who joined the office of president of the MSZP, once again denied Hungarians stranded on the other side of the border during the vote of the bill on dual citizenship. We, who live in the immediate neighbourhood of the border, do not forget how the socialists made it difficult for us to cross the border, how those who tried to visit Transcarpathia waited for hours. Today, however, it is a great help that the head of the National Tax and Customs Office withdrew in February of this year's earlier order to check the occasional nature; it does not need to be completed now, as we, living on the border, called the little white paper. Similarly, the elimination of occasional checks made it easier for travellers to cross the border specifically for tourist or related purposes. Fidesz considers it important for the government to help our most difficult countrymen, especially the war-torn Ukraine and Transcarpathia. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In light of the above, what is the government planning to do to help the Hungarians in Transcarpathia? In what way and by what means do you plan to make life easier for our fellow nations in Transcarpathia? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-04-38	Árpád Potápi State Secretary responds. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The current situation in Ukraine requires that we pay particular attention to ensuring the conditions of existence of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia. During the programme package launched in 2015, we supported Hungarian families, teachers, health workers and church persons in Transcarpathia, as well as the catering costs of Hungarian preschool children in Transcarpathia. [[12.10]] The grants for the programmes totalled HUF 787 million, and in the case of healthcare workers providing services in the Hungarian language a large number of applications were received that this year another HUF 80 million had to be added. The Hungarian Government is currently examining the form in which it can continue and possibly expand support for social programmes. As you know, we launched the Petőfi Sándor programme last year and for the second time this year we announced the Petőfi Sándor programme. Here we are trying to focus on the sporadic, we will provide five people for Transcarpathia last year and this year as well. We also try to help the Ukrainians in Transcarpathia. Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county and Transcarpathia's co-operation and coordinated development tasks have been coordinated by a separate government commissioner, Dr. István Grezsa. Thanks to his activities, on 21 March we announced a program of teaching Hungarian languages in 62 settlements in Transcarpathia. Currently there are thousands of students studying under school frameworks and 500 on weekends, Ukrainians learning Hungarian. I would also like to thank the Member for his solidarity and charity work as mayor of Fejérgyarmat, and as a Member of Parliament, which he has expressed and expressed in the interests of Transcarpathia. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-40	Dear Parliament, Member István Józsa, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, - who represents his minister, came to the Chamber at the last moment, to the relief of all of us. I'd like to ask you about the further fate of the Dunakess Vehicle Repair. According to media reports, the government is seriously concerned with the idea of selling the State ownership in Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair Ltd. So much so that there's news of advanced negotiations and a hundred million dollars in sales. This was not a small shock not only in the profession, but also in the public opinion, since it was only a year and a half ago that the government acquired majority ownership in this company. Since then, substantial improvements have been made to Hungarian taxpayers' money, several production halls have been renovated and the test track electrified for 600 million HUF. Since then, the repair company has concluded several international agreements, its orders have been expanded, so the assembly of ten more trams for Budapest has already begun, and it is also planned to develop a new HÉV combination with Stadler in Switzerland. In fact, the renewal of the M3 metro car by the Russian company would be more than adequate for the repair of the vehicle. My question, Mr. Secretary of State, is why, after such positive progress, the government withdraws from the company that it bought a short time ago, and which, even a few months ago, has been said to be considered a flagship for the production of Hungarian vehicles. How does this affect workers? What is the return on public investment expected? How can employment be increased, which was an important promise when purchasing the repair plant? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-04-04-42	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Tasó responds.
u2016-04-04-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is seeking to strengthen public engagement in strategic sectors, including in this area. Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair Ltd. It is a majority-owned Hungarian company, and there is no agenda for the sale of the company now on the table. However, cooperation with Russian partners is possible and we intend to do so. The primary role of the cooperation can be to share views on third markets, with particular attention to the demand for the purchase of 700 railway wagons in Egypt. During the negotiations and on-the-spot visits, representatives of the Russian party consider the automotive company, the repair company, to be suitable for joint appearances and, naturally, for repair work, renovation or even for participation in Metro 3. So it is our important goal that your repair workers continue to work under safe conditions and that the repairer improves. The government's objective is clearly to preserve, further develop and clearly improve the current situation of jobs in railway vehicle manufacturing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-44	Thank you very much. Before we go on, on your behalf, I welcome the students of Győri Krúdy Gyula High School and the teachers' colleagues, as well as the students and colleagues of the Budapest Kodály Zoltán Sing-Music Primary School and High School. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Szavay, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet for national politics:, How does the Government intend to help the Hungarians of Transylvania who have been illegally and provocatively fined on Székely's Day of Liberty and having territorial autonomy? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-45	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As is known, on March 10, 2016, a crowd of tens of thousands again gathered in Muresvásárhely and demanded territorial autonomy for Szeklerland. The strong stand for the self-determination of the local Hungarians and the subsequent peaceful march to the main square of Vásárhely took place in peace, without disorder, in an exemplary manner for everyone. Nevertheless, the Romanian power fined 84 persons, with a total value of 70 080 lei, according to the Gendarmerie's announcement, 50 people because, I quote, an unannounced, unregistered or forbidden mass event was organised, they did not act as organisers in order to interrupt the mass event when they found that the acts of public order and silence had taken place. Based on the reports of the press and witnesses, it is quite clear that there has been no disturbance or disturbance at the event, and the organizers have complied with their reporting obligations, so their fine is clearly an unlawful provocation, which fits the line once again that Romania has been trying to intimidate Transylvanian Hungarians on various issues over the past few months. Among other things, several members of Jobbik from Transylvania, members of the Hungarian People's Party of Transylvania, were punished. What is particularly remarkable is that Bálint Tóth, the Transylvanian spokesperson of the Sixty-four Várgye Youth Movement, was punished, who, by the way, was preparing for his competition 200 kilometers away from the time of the events. Jobbik has always considered it important to stand up for autonomy struggles, and we are pleased to see that this is now important for the government, but in this particular case, the government's voice has been sorely lacking. On behalf of the Jobbik, I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to stand clearly and firmly in favour of the unjust and provocatively fined. Help Elődő Kincses, who represents the fined, he has also been fined, the Minority Rights Protection Institute undertakes to protect these Szekler Hungarians, and the government will do everything in its power to complete Romania's anti-Hungarian activity. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's opinion on the points raised. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-46	Árpád Potápi State Secretary responds. I would like to ask you all with respect to the time frame provisions of the house rules. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian government stands firm for all forms of autonomy, including territorial autonomy. With all possible means, the government will speak out against the violations of Hungarians abroad in every forum. At the meetings of the Joint Committee on Minorities, we are constantly speaking on the issue of those who have suffered legal violations. We support the local legal protection organisations, the Imre Mikó Legal Protection Service, the Civil Commitment Movement and the Minority Rights Protection Institute, which will receive 40 and 50 million HUF from us again this year. This legal protection institute provides financial and professional support in some 26 specific cases to law firms and lawyers representing the victims of violations committed against Hungarians living outside the border, of course not only in Transylvania, but throughout the Carpathian Basin. In the specific case, the fined persons represent, as you said, Dr. Treasures Előd, who himself is among the fined persons, has been a partner of the Minority Protection Institute since 2013. The lawyer submitted an application to our institute in support of the objections lodged on behalf of the President of the Székely National Council, 42 persons fined for the organisation of the event and 24 persons fined for their participation in the movement, or more than one person. The Institute shall keep its staff informed of the details of the case. We are confident that a legitimate and fair decision will be taken on the matter of those concerned, and that these measures will be lifted, and that we will be able to understand with the Romanian party in the future, at least hope that the true message of the Szekler Day is not a disorder, but a declaration of peaceful commemoration and declared rights, which Romania has still not observed in 100 years. Thank you very much. [[12.20]]
u2016-04-04-48	Dear Parliament, Congressman István Hollik, representative of KDNP, would you like to ask the Minister of Justice a question: from donations to the Buda villa district? It's an address. It's up to Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It can be seen that the government is committed to ensuring that the financial situation of the Members of Parliament or of the Government who perform the service is always transparent to the citizens who elect them, and that MEPs who have been trusted by voters must report from time to time on their financial and income situation. It can also be seen that the government is committed to strict regulation, so it is no coincidence that Hungarian legislation is among the strictest in Europe. A few weeks ago, the public was informed that Péter Juhász, representative of the V. district council, was renting a 130-square-metre luxury apartment for HUF 200,000 a month. This property is located on II. It is located in a luxury district in the district, where the market rent of an apartment is more than 400 thousand forints per month. The politician, who is famous for his drug cases, is doing this by saying in front of the cameras that he has no money for a phone bill, and begging Hungarian people for donations to cover his own expenses. Juhász talks every day about unjustified enrichments in the ring of some enthusiastic press workers; this is done by the man who, because of his drug deals, the court has finally ruled that he is more dangerous to society. Not to mention the fact that in the 2000s he started 12 businesses in a row, 8 of them were destroyed and left a total tax debt of HUF 7 million. According to Juhász, searching for other people's financial circumstances is a professional evidence, but if one does the same by investigating his mysterious existence, it is a despicable invasion of privacy. Dear Secretary of State, Donations below 150 thousand forints per year do not qualify as income, so it does not need to be shown to a Member in his declaration of assets, yet the question arises whether this does not give some Members the opportunity to circumvent these rules and thus make this loophole a hotbed of corruption. That's why I'm asking the Honourable Secretary of State if there's a consequence of proving a municipal representative. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that the value of this private donation exceeds HUF 150,000. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-04-50	Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds.
u2016-04-04-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The 2011 CLXXXIX on municipalities in order to ensure the economic clarity of the management of local public funds, thus ensuring the cleanliness of public life. The Act regulates in detail the obligation of Members to make declarations of assets. According to this, within 30 days of their election, and within 30 days of 1 January each year, they are obliged to make a declaration of property, accompanied by a declaration of property of the residents and relatives of the same household. In this context, it should be pointed out that the declaration of assets, that it takes place once a year, only reflects the state of assets in January, does not reflect any changes during the year, since there is no obligation for the municipal representative to update his declaration of assets during the year. The compulsory declaration of assets and income is set out in the Annex to the Law on Local Government. If, in the course of the examination of the declaration of assets, the committee of inquiry finds that the declaration of assets is inadequate and that this may undermine the public confidence necessary for the performance of the representative's duties, it is appropriate to establish a conflict of interest under the provisions of the law on local authorities. The fact that the procedure for the declaration of assets can be initiated by anyone at the committee is intended to guarantee the purity of public life. The Ministry of Justice has learned from the press that, given the growing number of questions about Péter Juhász's financial situation, Fidesz has initiated a declaration of assets procedure against him, which may be able to clarify the situation; hopefully, the legislation will provide an appropriate framework for this. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-04-52	Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question: "Do you see the forest from money to fidesz management? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Fazekas, Minister for Agriculture, who is responsible for the subject, answers the question; we are listening to Mr Bitay Márton Örs, State Secretary; before him we are listening to a Member. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The press day we saw last week is the fact that the Prime Minister's salary is doubled by several state forest leaders, who, by the way, not only earn twice as much as the Prime Minister's, but also 45 times as much for their own employees, so there is a 45-fold wage difference between the least-seeking forestry employee and his managers, which raises the question of whether they bear so much more responsibility. Obviously, my question came up on the actuality of this, as Zalaerdő Zrt. in the last three years, he bought 9 new machines worth HUF 510 million in total, but immediately rented them. Sefag Zrt. and Mecsekerdő Zrt. in addition to the firewood, it also sold shredds and industrial fuels to power plants, but this was done by Sefag Zrt. So the total is 150 million, Mecsekerdő Zrt. and he lost some HUF 15 million in revenue with this solution. Why is that good for the public? Obviously, there is a question of what happened then, because it is, as Minister János Lázár said earlier, that state companies are characterized by the fact that under the socialist government socialist management is stealing it, and under the Fidesz government, Fidesz management is stealing it. What exactly is happening here? Obviously, the question arises as to whether these state forests are scientists of dirty things that are good when they are paid for. The question arises as to whether the members of the government, or possibly State Secretarys, are hunting here, and it is good to keep this good relationship at a level. The tax results of 22 state police with net revenues of some HUF 94 billion per year are less than HUF 3 billion, and the rest will be revived. Obviously, I would like to stress that under no circumstances can the privateisation of public forests or the privateisation of public forests be an objective, but at the same time the question arises, in areas with a much larger forest cover than Hungary, such as Slovenia or Slovakia, there is a public forestry industry with a state forest manager. Why do I need 22 here? Why do I need 22 C.E.O. jobs and salaries? The Minister took action - the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister - to see what was happening to the persons responsible for the Kehi report, and we do not know any results. I'd be interested to hear your answer. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-04-04-54	Secretary of State, please.
u2016-04-04-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As far as salaries are concerned, there was indeed such a search for the press. I've already protested, I've tried to direct the journalist from the point of view of why he still wants to know how much the CEO's salary is, how much he wants to draw from this. The 45 times is true, but there is indeed a co-worker who is responsible for the purity of the company in question, compared to the CEO; factual statement at that company, the CEO earns 45 times as much as it is, I think, in a lot of cases it is. The reason why the Prime Minister's salary is half as much as that of the state forestry economy is not to provoke, but I think the problem is with the first half of the statement, but it will obviously be decided by the current Prime Minister and the government how much wages he gives to the Prime Minister of Hungary, but I feel more problematic from this point of view, not how much the company manager's wages are. By the way, there is a government decision on how much to raise the salaries of the managers of these companies. Typically, it is induced not to go to the market, not to have the market sector sucking up the best professionals, but to try to keep them in the public sector. What is typical of the 22 state forest farms, before 2010, we have heard of bankruptcy, minuses and such problems; after 2010, there is no such thing, neither the state-owned companies are operating, nor the bankruptcy situation. A total of HUF 15 billion has been developed since 2010. Besides, obviously we, too, the Ministry of Agriculture, will take the necessary steps in relation to the Kehi report, but for the time being, we have seen the press implications of this, we have not received a written report or a final report from Kehi, as a result of which we are not yet able to take action from this point of view. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-04-56	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Bene Ildikó, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: "The future of the production of railway vehicles on Szolnok." Here you go.
u2016-04-04-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Boosting the Hungarian railway manufacturing is a joyful and extremely important decision of the government. [[12.30]] We can remember that this was not always the case: the railway sector was, for some reason, a stepchild during socialist governments. According to the custom of then, the left-wing government has sold the most sought-after cargo company, of course the most successful rail sector, which has been profitable ever since. However, the government's intention and the construction of Stadler's factory in Szolnok revived the Hungarian railway production with a long tradition, and at the same time created the opportunity for Hungarian professionals with excellent knowledge to participate actively in the modernisation of the train stock of the Hungarian rail passenger transport. Accordingly, MÁV-Start Zrt. At Szolnok Vehicle Repair Base, IC + cars that meet modern requirements have been developed and manufactured, which now have all the necessary licenses for serial production. Since then, the cars have run hundreds of thousands of kilometres, and they have also proved in traffic: Hungarian engineers and professionals are able to produce railway wagons of the standard that is appropriate to today's needs and expectations, even in international markets. In the last year, the Prime Minister announced at the Szolnok station for the programme of the modern cities that the government supported the serial production of IC + cars developed and built at the Tisza-parti county seat. This would ensure not only the future of Hungarian development, but hundreds of jobs could be created by MÁV-Start Zrt. Szolnok Vehicle Repair Base. This investment would give new impetus to the railway engineering sector, which is why the government's decision to produce the first pieces has already been made. Dear Secretary of State, What do you know about the details of the production? When is the start of serial production expected at the Szolnok Vehicle Repair Base? How many new jobs can development create? I thank you in advance for your answers on behalf of the citizens of Szolnok and Szolnok. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-58	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Tasó responds.
u2016-04-04-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, In Hungary, the momentum of rail development opens the space for several economic operators and provides an opportunity to join as a supplier the concept that was indeed finalised and decided by the government in the framework of the Modern Cities Programme last year. Accordingly, MÁV-Start Zrt. We will manufacture IC + cars at Szolnok Vehicle Repair plant from 2017 until 2019, 100 more precisely, which will allow not only 250 new jobs to be created in Szolnok, but 50 in Békés and 50 in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, and will help to strengthen the natural potential of vehicle production in Hungary. What is very important: however, we will continue to look at the possibility of further possibilities for construction and further improvements within the vehicle repair system. In any case, a joyful news: we will now not only have and have track structures capable of speeds of 160 km/h, but we can also develop Hungarian vehicles for this. Hungarian railway wagons will cross the national passenger transport and cross our networks, and I am very confident that many Hungarian travelers will enjoy it. So the point is: we will improve and move on, thereby strengthening jobs and increasing jobs. I am very confident that many people in the Szolnok area will be happy about this, and I also hope that we can move on. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-60	Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What about the shortage that has been created so far? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Miklós Seszták, Minister of State for National Development, who is competent and competent on the subject, will answer the question. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, only domestic waste management has been destroyed, and the result so far has been nothing more than a highly poorly funded system of huge debt roll-around; one in which hundreds of settlements are still in danger of providing services, as have hundreds of jobs, especially in places where the service provider is in a close-up situation. However, today's reality is that in many places today, disaster management is carrying out waste disposal instead of service providers, and in the meantime, we are unable to deliver on most of our EU waste management commitments. In this situation, instead of finally working on a professionally sound solution, they only increase uncertainty; now, just by starting the operation of the National Kukaholding, the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. and the new public waste collection system. The problem is that we do not yet have the relevant contracts between national kukaholding and municipalities, and there are numerous legal and financial fundamental issues that are unclear. That is why I am asking how the system, which is not effective in its current form, will change, which cannot meet the tightening of EU standards. When will improvements be targeted? Who pays the declared losses of waste services, i.e. some HUF 13 billion? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-04-04-62	Thank you. Secretary Zsolt Szabó responds. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to say that the coordinating body will not collect waste and will not conclude a contract on its own as a civil code contract, as Parliament has just passed the law on the basis of which it operates and develops a system by means of legislation at the end of last year. At the moment, waste management, due to the island-like development of a system development, is of different quality in different parts of the country: non-cost-effective, economic growth services are also taking place in sub-sized areas, and much of the investment has been oversized, which has developed here in recent years. In fact, about HUF 14 billion is missing in 20 percent of the public services, while we are burying some HUF 40 billion per year of selective and recyclable material into various landfills; this material is lost to us and is not recovered. In order to change this, we would like to balance national development directions and raise public services to the same high level. At the end of the transformation process, there will be unified governance, and in order to successfully manage this, the coordinating body, which, I repeat, will not perform public services, will only coordinate it. The aim is to maintain the public's results by reducing the cost of electricity and to protect relatively low waste disposal charges. Honourable Congressman, The government is committed to a long-term solution to the problem and we want to achieve the sustainable development of the public service. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We ask that this proposal be supported and that the results of the reduction be protected together. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-64	Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: - Is the black register common in Fidesz settlements? It's an address. It's up to Congressman Eagle. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, You are already aware that very serious accusations were made by Miklós Lakatos, a birch-egyháza entrepreneur who interviewed several televisions in Miskolc; he talked about how he helped Fidesz win in the 2014 municipal elections in Miskolc. The evidence hasn't been released yet, but it says a lot that you've spoken face-to-face, and the National Bureau of Investigation is already investigating the case. On the tape, this contractor tells us that the government of Miskolc was campaigning from the black cash register of Ákos Kriza. In doing so, he and others received millions of forints of cash with a bag full of money in the mayor's office, and then they didn't even have to account for it. He says he was running a 150-man gypsy team during the campaign, and on the day of the election, they were transporting people to vote by car. Lakatos also recorded compromising footage of Albert Pásztor, one of the rival mayor's candidates, claiming at the request of Fidesz' campaign staff in Miskolc. For all this, Lakatos claims that he was promised five million forints, but instead he asked for the demolition of the stadium in Diósgyőr and the numbered streets, but nothing came of it. Ákos Kriza's confidant, former Deputy Chief of Cabinet, admits that before the elections he founded a joint venture with Miklós Lakatos, more precisely with his wife; this is more than interesting after he said that Lakatos knew him as a blackmailer. It is also interesting that the company was created for the employment of gypsies, which Kovács said is of particular importance to the municipality, but still, Ákos Kriza does not know anything about this, because the mayor explained at his extraordinary press conference that he had never heard of Lakatos. [[12.40]] The most interesting thing is: how did Kovács think that his newly founded private company based in Nyíregyháza would receive the local government's order during public procurement? Or are the jobs predivided? Are you expecting an order from the mayor's man? Is black Cassette common in Fidesz settlements? Please state the government's position and what steps are being taken to combat corruption. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-66	Thank you. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reject all the objectives, all the schemings that call into question local governments, the management of local governments or the proper functioning of local governments. In Hungary, the municipalities - whether led by the leaders of Fidesz or other parties - manage according to the rules of the Constitution, the Fundamental Law, the Public Finance Act, the Local Government Act, and their management can be directly controlled by the State Audit Office or public bodies, but of course also by the local public. With regard to the specific case that you have raised, I can tell you that at the moment an investigation has been initiated by the Btk. 350. According to Section 4 of the Act, and this investigation is under way. At the same time, I would like to emphasise once again that, in the municipalities, whether it is the spending of local revenues or state aid, or the publication of public procurement, the laws guarantee transparency, the laws guarantee that a public procurement procedure with equal opportunities is clearly visible. But speaking of transparency: this is not necessarily the case for Jobbik, for example, a third of Jobbik's budget resources are going into one businessman, and it is easy to assume that there are mergers in spending public money. [[István Szávay's intervention.]] But there are equally interesting links around Jobbik's party foundation, because last year, when the nine state-supported party foundations were examined, Jobbik did not give any information about what the money was spent on. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-68	Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. The big scam: GMO-free Hungary? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And thank you to the FM for sending me a specialist, because that gives me a chance to get the right answer. Mr Secretary of State, I do not think I have to explain to you: in Hungary we produce 77,000 hectares of soya, there comes 140,000 tons, 80 percent of it is sold for export. We import 540 thousand tonnes of protein-based feed for animal husbandry in Hungary, 80-90 percent of which are soybean and protein-based feed produced with GMO seed. Currently, in the vast majority of Hungarian livestock production, it uses entirely GMO-based protein-based feeds. Since the adoption of the Fundamental Law, the Hungarian government has been deceiving Hungary that it will be a GMO-free country, and we will create the whole background. Please, since the Fundamental Law was adopted, and the Hungarian Constitution ensures that Hungarian citizens have the greatest physical and health potential, you have deceived the Hungarian electorate since then, and since then it has not been clear that all Hungarian dairy products, all Hungarian meat products that are taken off the shelf, 80-90 percent of them come from animals that have been fed with GMO-based feed. That's the fact. My question about this is mostly - since there will be no debate between us in this, I think - whether the Hungarian public is knowingly misled by the promise of GMO-free use by the FM and consciously does not talk about the fact that it is not possible to fully implement the GMO exemption in this agricultural structure that the government has built, which basically, by eliminating traditional, extensive animal farming, has pushed the results of livestock farming towards intensive farming. So are you knowingly deceiving the public, or do you simply have no idea what kind of feed they consume? Of course, I do not assume that the latter is Mr Secretary of State, but I would like to know how it is possible, however, that, while we are constantly talking about GMO-free, it seems that the government and the opposition agree on these objectives, in fact, there is no substantive step being taken to ensure that the country is GMO-free. I look forward to your reply in this respect. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2016-04-04-70	Thank you very much. Secretary of State István Nagy responds. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, I must say that this question is very unfair. Hungary is the leading fighter in the fight against GMOs in the European Union, and I can safely say that everything the European Union has achieved against the United States or against the GMO lobby is due to Hungary. Let's look at the facts in a row. He was right to say that Hungary has laid down the Fundamental Law to achieve the GMO-free objective. It has already happened in the field of seed. So today in Hungary no seed can be planted that contains a genetically modified organism. This is a huge success, if you think about what we have to do with Monsanto corn or Amflora potatoes; it's a huge success. Hungary was the only one who won in court and thus protected the territory of the European Union from having to plant or plant these plants. So it's very unfair. Hungary is once again the leader in the fight against animal husbandry against animal feed. It's just, my dear congressman, it would have been quite lifelike if you had said that you wanted us to do more quickly. But I have to tell you where we are. We have increased the support for soy crops, thus increasing the area of sowing. Research institutes are working on how to trigger the import word, how to replace it. Genetic research institutes are extracting our old seed samples that are suitable for the production of protein crops so that we can replace and insert it. Feeding experiments take place in large farms, cattle feed, how to feed them soy instead, let's say, tender rye, and then there's a proper protein supplement for domestic soy feeding. So it is completely unfair that Hungary does nothing. I must say, my dear fellow Member, that we are at the forefront of this fight, and we want as many European Union countries as possible to join us, not by accident, in May and June, we hope that we will also have permission to use the GMO-free marking from the European Union, and we will also be the first to do so. So please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: Isn't that enough to attract attention? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent and competent on the subject, answers the question. Mr László Teleki has the floor.
u2016-04-04-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A recent Commission decision blocks an EU budget of HUF 40 billion. A larger portion of this, some 14 billion, relates to the Belts Programme to renew the methodology and instrumental system of natural education. Only a fraction of the money spent in the programme goes to the original goal, to the participating schools; half of the 100 million funds are transferred to the KLIK. According to Nándor Csepreghy's statement on Monday, we will not be able to draw a few hundred million HUF of funding from the EU, but these funds will be paid to the schools concerned. The Öveges programme provides additional resources for 44 schools in rural and 8 metropolitan areas, with a total value of HUF 14 billion. The only difference between the cost of renovating classrooms and the actual difference was recognised by the Secretary of State, citing the interests of the ongoing investigation. In a case in Szekszárd, a HUF 314 million project cost 200 million to KLIK. According to their reply at the time, KLIK used the amount to carry out the professional activities. In the light of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how the schools concerned will be paid for the missing amounts. What's the school gonna take you away from? What happened to the amount that went to KLIK? Who decides to spend the aid on someone other than the original goal? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2016-04-04-74	Thank you very much. Secretary Retvári responds.
u2016-04-04-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The tender notice entitled "Renewal of the methodology and tool system for scientific education in public education" - short of the Öveges programme - sets out the objectives and ways of using the available resource. In the scheme concerned, no non-accountable costs other than the defined targets have been paid. [[12.50]] At the time of the publication of the tender guide and at the decision-making stage, there were local governments, foundations, churches, questions of cooperation, joint development, needs were not raised, individual project implementation was planned. The possible cooperation between the maintenance companies was not justified either by the legal environment or by the subject of development, but this legal environment has changed, which is why KLIK has been involved in the development. The mandatory activities to be carried out in the project were then broken down between the partners. Typically, the budget of the originally applicant municipalities remained related to project management and renovation and asset acquisition, while the maintenance centre's budget included the eligible costs of professional activities, training of teachers, development of professional content, services for the target group involved in the project. The scope of the costs planned at the KLIK includes eligible cost elements related to the compulsory activities required by the Application Guide, which are in line with the objectives of the project. The financial corrections established in the course of the irregularity proceedings conducted relate to all accounts and cost items which were required to be carried out and to the costs which were essential and eligible for the implementation of the project. After the completion of the irregularities procedures, claims shall be imposed on the beneficiary institutions. The payment notice shall provide for a 12-month payment facility which the beneficiary concerned may use in the claim management procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-76	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. Will there be any consequences for the case that has been reported as Fidesz corruption in Balmazújváros? It's an address. Here.
u2016-04-04-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, To my last interpellation on this matter to the Minister, you replied, Mr Secretary of State, to be more precise: you did not answer, you said a sentence on this matter, that you would not tolerate politicians involved in corruption in your ranks. Now I would like you to elaborate a little more on this scandalous case, all the more so, because in the three weeks since then there has been no action, the people involved in corruption are in place, so your sentence seems to be falling. I am talking about the corruption case in Balmazújváros, namely István Tiba, who was appointed Minister's Commissioner by János Lázár last summer. According to the news, he was already up to his neck in the corruption case in Balmazújváros. As you know, Margit Veres, as a Balmazújvárosi metropolitan notary, took 5 million HUF in private from an entrepreneur whose company received 180 million from the local government on the same day. The next day, the notary met the mayor of István Tiba and gave him the money. In addition, Margit Veres received a car as a gift from the said contractor. The case is already in court, on the last two days of negotiation, they listened to the phone calls that were intercepted, and István Tiba confessed as a witness. During these negotiations, it was found that when the people involved talked about a gift car, Tiba and Margit Veres, who is now mayor, the car was offered for purchase at a purchase price, by no means a bribe. And the 5 million forints that István Tiba put in his pocket were just a friendly loan, which, of course, was for a public purpose. This short description may show that the Tibas - pardon the expression - view the authorities as stupid, but also their own voters. Dear Secretary of State, What do you think of that? Don't you think that the former Minister for Foreign Affairs should be dismissed from his parliamentary mandate and Margit Veres from the mayor's position? And I ask you once again whether you will tolerate politicians involved in corruption in your ranks, whether we can expect you to take action on this matter. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-78	Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2016-04-04-79	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, It seems that Jobbik needs to improve its statistics on opposition. Since I don't have such a burden on my shoulder, allow me to take a advice: buy a legal book in which your definitive can look at the difference between the suspect and the witness. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-80	Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Attorney General, "Why are politically sensitive matters taking so long?" It's an address. It's up to Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, As I said, I drew attention to the fact that there are a number of procedures that have not been seen for some time to see the outcome. In 2013, the issue of unauthorized area payments was launched. I don't see much progress in this. They promised me a result by 2015. The case of the playground scandal revealed by the European Anti-Fraud Office, which has already been discussed in Parliament, cost Hungarian taxpayers 1.8 billion forints. Last time I asked you in August of last year, where the investigation was going, you promised me that at the beginning of this year, perhaps there would be substantial progress. Last time I tried to find out on 9 October 2015 that the Nonprofit Ltd. under the Ministry of Agriculture is a Reserve Management Ltd. the case, in which the proceedings were initiated in October 2013 for the crime of a particularly high level of misappropriation, where is he now? On October 21st last year, the answer was that the investigation was last extended until December 3rd. It's over. Is there a result? A multitude of similar examples can be classified. The Moon Street market is a category of fiscal fraud, as the farm program has supported the opening of Michelin-star international restaurants. Then we have the case of our fellow Member, János Pócs, whose address was the disappearance of millions of EU citizens, whether in connection with ETUSZ or a year earlier. My colleague Ákos Hadházy demonstrated his earlier statements on the preliminary position of the Mayor of Szekszárd in a public procurement case. I respectfully ask whether they can overcome these sensitive matters affected by this policy, whether progress can be expected. I would also like to ask your personal opinion that, after two or three years without a meaningful result, you do not consider it justified to establish in Hungary a special anti-corruption investigating authority independent of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, capable of overcoming these cases regardless of the prosecutor's office or politics. I look forward to your reply on this matter. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-04-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt. Here you go.
u2016-04-04-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to draw your attention to what I have done several times in these walls, that the judiciary does not know political, non-political, politically sensitive matters, there is no such category in the law, and therefore it is not possible to form such groups and draw conclusions from them. Secondly, I would like to remind you that the seriousness of your questions is being questioned by the fact that I have two minutes to draw conclusions or results from about a dozen of those cases. Therefore, only very briefly - which you have taken out and only mentioned in a list of your questions - are some facts. It is indeed a very complicated procedure in the case of the playground scandal. 143 playgrounds are what we're talking about here. Investigating and hearing individuals, suspects, witnesses takes a lot of time. Hopefully, the investigation will be closed in the first half of 2016. The Reserve Management Nonprofit Kft. I would like to say that in February 2016 the procedure in this case was taken over by the Central Detective Attorney General, precisely to speed up the process. In the case of single area payments, as Mr President pointed out in his question, there has been an indictment, particularly because of fiscal fraud, which is causing a significant financial disadvantage. There are 84 defendants in this case; this shows the complexity. And you can continue. These cases are in progress, they're in order and they're going. What is incomprehensible is whether we need a separate investigating authority, as these matters are not corruption matters, but budgetary fraud and other material and economic crimes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-84	Dear Parliament, Mr István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question with the title of the resignations placed in custody in Győr. It's up to Congressman. Here.
u2016-04-04-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It was February news that the surgeons of the Aladár Petz Hospital in Győr offered a mass termination. Their letter of resignation was deposited, and they wanted to negotiate their otherwise legitimate salary increase with the hospital. The hospital's management said that it has neither the means nor the opportunity to solve this problem. I mention this particular issue because it is a general problem, although this situation in Győr has been tried by all the actors on the part of the government to present it as an isolated phenomenon. It is a general matter because at the beginning of the year, both doctors, all the candidates for specialist medicine who were deceived by the government and all the workers who faced the lack of salary increases they received were disappointed, and they made legitimate claims for a raise. [[13.00]] All this is aggravated by emigration, which, despite all the other rumors, has not stopped, and has not even decreased its pace. This is aggravated by the regenerating debt of hospitals. You remember, last year, a lot of times, he said a few sentences that the government would solve the problem of hospital debt. He didn't solve it, by the miracle of debt, he was regenerating. So it's not the management of hospitals, it's the system and the budget. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] My question in the written version was, Mr State Secretary, whether you consider the demands for a raise to be justified for health workers and what you are doing for it. However, I would now like to make this simpler on the news from the budget to be submitted. What has the portfolio achieved in the 2017 budget to improve the situation of health workers? Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-04-04-86	Thank you, Congressman Tukacs. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-04-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Congressman quoted a news report from February, and then a news from March has been produced since then, which has brought a positive conclusion to this story from the point of view of patients and the hospital. After all, the 15 doctors who deposited this declaration of resignation from the civil servant status, well, because they made decisions by consensus and did not reach consensus, so they decided to stay here and not submit their resignations, they will continue to work in Győr, in the hospital for the patients, for the Hungarian people. Meanwhile, the hospital also negotiated with them, reviewing the operation of the surgical department. It can be said that there has not been a downward trend in the number of doctors, but that, according to their statements, there has been a very opposite trend over the last five years, and that the number has increased annually with one doctor. Here these 15 doctors - we can talk about first and second submissions - asked for an increase in their salary to 185 percent, and the hospital management said that they were responsible not only for these 15 people, but for the work and income of all 2,200 employees. We're glad this story ended with them staying here. However, the government obviously considers it an important task to launch in 2012-13 in the area of wage developments, which it continued this year in the area of overtime and allowances, with more than HUF 12 billion included in this year's budget as an additional resource, let's say, compared to two years ago, the budget adopted then, and therefore, in the future, in proportion to the performance of the Hungarian economy, it will continue to increase the salaries of those who worked in healthcare. Like I said, we did today, actually, this year. It is a pretty clear number, however, if you look at the number of residents entering vocational training, then in 2010 at the end of socialist governance it was 420, and now it has risen to 904. This is clear, more than double growth. We hope that this trend will remain. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-04-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question:, Fifty Shades of Corruption - there is a political crime. At the request of Prime Minister László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, who is competent on the subject, State Secretary Pál Völner will answer the question.
u2016-04-04-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Just as the word gypsy crime doesn't mean that every gypsy is a criminal, so the word "politic criminal" doesn't mean that every politician is a criminal. But there are typical forms of crime that require special treatment. After all, a politician does not typically steal non-ferrous metals, but rather, let us say, a doctoral dissertation, to begin with the first man of your country, Paul Schmitt, who was elected by you as the first man of the country, strictly with an L, of course. These require special treatment, which is why Jobbik developed a political crime-related package. I would like to ask you about this, whether there is any openness to the adoption of these programming points. I mean, we have dozens of programming points, so let me just give you the headlines. Although the most common forms of political job accumulation have succeeded in putting an end to Jobbik's pressure, there are still more loopholes that have been opened, so we would like you to deal with this. Eliminating immunity; unlocking encryption, since there are many solutions that are contrary to the public interest to sweep the dogs under the rug. In addition, we would like to eliminate the longevity, the longevity of crimes of an economic nature committed by politicians, because many times, by the time it turns out, they say that they are simply outdated. In addition, we would like to conduct regular and automatic investigations into wealth and wealth growth for all Members of Parliament, politicians, members of government and state secretary every four years. We would like to make public the possible dual citizenship of politicians. For if I had thought of Gábor Simon's case and found out that he had already built an escape route in an African banana republic, he had a way, it could have revealed the crimes before. I could also mention the disclosure of agent lists, as to this day, former agents who have not yet made their past or activities public can still be blackmailed. In addition, the accountability and banning of communist leaders from public life awaits itself, as well as the return of politicians; let us think of the speech in Balatoneséd. And if we could finally get to the penalty lines, then we could talk about, in substance, the need to impose a double penalty on politicians and create the possibility that they could be subjected to total confiscation. That's the 12 points I'm looking forward to, which one shows openness to. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2016-04-04-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Well, the bouquet that Congressman suggested, perhaps the Attorney General said that if he had meant it, he wouldn't want two minutes of the answer I could give him. Maybe the faction has some people who are legally executed, and we should have a word with them. You should know that in the Fundamental Law of Hungary, everyone is equal before the law. The rights and obligations of Members of Parliament are also equal, and the criminal code in force knows the concept of an official instead of a so-called political crime, there are separate forms of crime that are linked to this, obviously also separate forms of protection. So this is a matter of legal treatment. If we were to talk about political crime, then let's say that we could include a better political crime in the Btk.; or for example, as David Janiczák is a recruiter, because according to Jobbik's statutes and the party's program, job accumulation is also a political crime, and he took a salary from five places, so he is actually considered a criminal. That was one of your suggestions. So you should be sweeping around your own house on this issue first. The other issue is the statute of limitations, for example. It cannot be linked to the person of the perpetrator, since in all the laws the statute of limitations is linked to the crime, the gravity of the crime; likewise, the confiscation of property, which also exists, and also, if there is sufficient reason, the law currently applies these possibilities, and they will happen. The propertyisation investigation you are talking about, Mr President, would be a much weaker instrument every four years than the obligation to make a declaration of assets that will be imposed annually. If you compare it with international examples such as German or Austrian, where you only need to name different income categories, you can say that Hungarian is one of the most stringent regulations in Europe. I hope that I have been able to give sufficient information to the Member to calm him down. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-04-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question. It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2016-04-04-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Court of Justice of the European Union has reached a final judgment in which it has given the right to entrepreneurs who have been looted by the 2012 casino law. As a result of the decision, the compensation fund for entrepreneurs has been opened, and ruined entrepreneurs can sue the Hungarian State. Based on preliminary estimates, the one-off damage can be estimated at HUF 100 billion, which does not include the missed benefits of the disabled entrepreneurs. This could be an almost unbearable burden for the budget and the Hungarian people. Moreover, we can rightly fear, based on the last five years, that the burden of this will be borne by those in the most difficult situation. It is also important to add that the regulation itself was a complete failure. In the new system, the revenue from the toy tax has decreased radically. The fact is, therefore, that the government has transformed the Hungarian gambling market with a conflicted, poorly introduced, bad legislation, with only the aim of playing out the rights acquired to the economic hinterland. The result is that only Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima benefited. Hungarian taxpayers are likely to have to pay tax revenue not only due to the new regulation, but also a hundred billion dollars in compensation due to the government's mistakes. [[13.10]] But the government still hasn't stopped. Just last week, it was announced that casinos will not be extended to the introduction of the online cash register, so it will be possible to continue to spend money without any control. Under the decision of the Secretary of State in Brussels and in the light of the anticipated lawsuits, I ask whether the government is amending the casino law or whether their reaction will be exhausted by asking the Great and Trocsányi Law Office to defend the state. How much more money will it cost the Hungarian taxpayers, while the government realizes that the transformation of gambling is a complete failure? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] When will the interests of Hungarian taxpayers finally become more important than that of Andy Vajna? Thank you very much.
u2016-04-04-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2016-04-04-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you allow me, I suggest that you be more informed before reading a question, because what you are referring to is not the case in a European Court of Justice judgment, and they did not give the right to the said entrepreneur, because in that judgment, on the one hand, the Hungarian Government was not obliged to be compensated by this judgment, and, on the other hand, it was not obliged to amend the law, and, on the third, it was referred to the jurisdiction of the national court. The national court, the Hungarian court, has not yet ruled. There's no judgment, so I don't know what a hundred billion-dollar lawsuit you're talking about. Where do you get this number, once a hundred, and then in the second half of the question hundreds of billions? He also dares to say that this money will be borne by those in the most difficult situation. What source? Madam Member, it is quite the other way around: until this law was passed in Hungary, precisely the people who were in the most difficult situation - they were tens of thousands at the time - and they played their full pay in one afternoon out of gambling. This was prohibited by the Hungarian Parliament with this law. Exactly those who were in the most difficult situation, in the most needy situation, paid for this many, many toy taxes, which is indeed more than the current system flows into the state register. But I'm asking you: in a situation like this, is LMP more concerned with gambling tax revenue and not people who can't spend this money without their will from their families and put it in a position that is simply unbearable for themselves and your family? Which means the online cash register system in casinos: Congresswoman, show me a country where it works, and we will continue with this question. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-96	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior:. Help us understand that Lajos Kósa has said something false again, or are they really closing down the host station in Kiskunhalas? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-04-97	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Lajos Kósa, leader of the Fidesz faction, said a few weeks ago that with the exception of two reception centres in Western Hungary, all camps will be abolished by the government. Compared to this, there are indications of the opposite in the centre of my constituency, Kiskunhalas: according to the employees there, the camp is expanding its capacity. Our opinion is clear: do not have such a camp in Kiskunhalas, because the population is not safe until we know what background and what purpose immigrants are accommodated there. Unfortunately, we also know that closing the camp would lead to job losses, but we believe that in such a case, the government and the municipality have an obligation to ensure that the workers there are further employed. Jobbik wants to act in the strongest way against immigration and all forms of terrorism. This included our collection of signatures last spring, supported by hundreds of people from Kiskunhalas and nearly a quarter of a million from across the country. Jobbik first raised the building of the fence, the referendum rejecting the quota, and, as the only opposition party, ensured the two-thirds majority that the defence could be deployed at our borders. We would like to see our proposals not only on the former, but also on the reception centres. This is also the opinion of the vast majority of the population of Kiskunhalas, who do not want previous incidents to continue in their neighborhood, when they were throwing rocks at policemen, threatening to set fire to the barracks, or fighting about what to watch on TV. We especially do not want this after the events in Paris and Brussels. Dear Secretary of State, In the autumn, the Prime Minister himself made it clear that in Hungary - I quote literally - refugee camp, distribution place, collection place cannot be established. Last time I mentioned it, Lajos Kósa visited the closure of most of the institutions. Tell the public what to expect. Lajos Kósa again spoke of vegetables, or will Jobbik's demand be met, and will the camp in Kiskunhalas really be shut down and ensure further employment of the workers there? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-98	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-04-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I will start with a clarification: I am aware that Gábor Bányai is a representative of the individual parliament of Kiskunhalas. As regards the specific issues, I would like to inform you that the Kiskunhalas institution is not an open reception centre, but a closed asylum and secure reception centre. Guarded accommodation in the territory of the institution, which is maintained by the police, is also a closed institution, honourable Member. The closure of the closed institution in Kiskunhalas is currently not on the agenda. We pay particular attention to the safety of the inhabitants of Kiskunhalas, and we will do everything we can to ensure that they are under as little strain as possible through the operation of the institutions. I would also like to thank the municipality of the city and the citizens of the city for their cooperation and patience before this House. The government is determined to protect the country and protect the Hungarian people. We are committed to protecting the Schengen borders, and we are doing everything we can to protect the security of Hungarian citizens. We protect Hungary and the Hungarian people against immigration pressure. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: "Gypsy business, sinking ship?" It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on the subject, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-04-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When, a long month ago, the home, but I would say, in connection with the hostile tribal areas, I reported the unblessed conditions in some settlements in Somogy, the State Secretary's response was, according to Orwell's New Speaker rules, an even better public security visit. What does God give us, the news that one of the many repulsive rascals in the affected village was only suspended for twelve burglaries. He also thanked for the judicial goodness of breaking and entering again, but now he's really got a very deterrent sentence because he's going to jail for about five months. I'm sure strict penance will keep him from repeating his crime and he'll get better. We can only hope that the Strasbourg court will not, on the basis of another lunatic's judgment, end up giving him a million more compensation for the harm suffered by the racist Hungarian prison. In many cases, it is not because of the insufficient work of the police that criminals feel as if they have been given a free hand. While the independence of judges must be preserved, as the above examples show, there are many amazing cases that rightly knock out the safeguards for all good-hearted people. And such cases only poison Gypsy-Hungarian coexistence even more. Last time, the dreaded loan shark was released to the Ormans on the basis of his good prison behavior. From this landscape came the call for help that was made by the Gypsy majority town of South Baranya, the mayor of Sumony Gypsy, in his final despair towards Jobbik, because he wants order in the village, and we will help him. We have always emphasized that we do not distinguish people according to origin or race, so we offer a friend better for the future of their hard-working, honest, responsible children, as well as for the Roma who see learning and work, who dare to declare that they are not friends with the criminal Roma. But who dares to report the same thing to the government? Are you as responsible as these gypsy people? When will they finally release the hand of Flórian Farkas, who plays the main role in making the billions of integration disappear? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How are you going to solve the problems of living together in Gypsy-Hungarian? How are you going to solve the problems of small settlements like Sumony? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-102	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[13.20]]
u2016-04-04-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Despite all the efforts of the party president, the 2010 rhetoric in Jobbik seems to be here, and the old hating tool is always taken out when, in a specific case, they try to project certain qualities onto a whole social group. We believe that nothing can be projected on anyone, whether it is Gypsy, Hungarian or any other. We believe that with strict criminal laws [[Ander Balázs' intervention.]] speak out and even act against any infringer. One of the most stringent criminal codes in Europe was adopted in the previous government cycle, one of the first steps of the Fidesz-KDNP administration was to introduce a strict criminal option for three strikes, which provides greater protection to all Hungarian citizens against the perpetrators of violent crimes against life. We have stated in the Fundamental Law that every Hungarian person's right to self-defense precedes the right of every other person involved in certain criminal proceedings. In English: everyone can defend themselves by means that are proportionate and can defend against any attack. We have also tried to move forward in the development of the police for those who are obviously in the majority, so they cannot protect themselves, but the law now does not bind their hands. Now there is a policeman in every Hungarian settlement, at least one more per settlement than five years ago, so that everyone's sense of security is as high as possible. We also wanted to address the Roma issue at European level. Hungary was the first country to adopt a European Roma strategy in relation to the current EU presidency, because we believe that not only Hungary but Europe as a whole have a role to play in catching up. That is why we have put this on the Union's agenda. What Jobbik can do with similar public security problems is shown by the bankruptcy in Tisavasvár; there, new plans are being made, because nothing has been achieved in the last five years. However, we have managed to achieve tangible improvements both in terms of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, both in Hungarians and Gypsies. Thank you very much. [[What about Flórian Farkas? A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-04-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence:. Why do you need the car keys? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2016-04-04-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In recent days, many citizens have received letters saying that their vehicles will be registered by the military and that their status will be reported at intervals. Article XXXI of the Fundamental Law Article 2 of the Act states that in situations of national security and disaster protection, everyone is subject to an obligation to provide economic and material services. In my opinion, in an ideal situation, this must be an undisputed duty for Hungarian citizens, but today Hungary is not in an ideal position. Wars are raging in neighboring Ukraine, where Hungarian people die in battles that have nothing to do with, but we do nothing. Our southern borders are besieged by immigrants, but some political forces have recently welcomed them with open arms. The Hungarian government centralises, builds its own media empire, uses the suggestion of a copy of socialist propaganda from state money, and takes over the media with vague terror laws. At present, a large part of citizens turn their backs on politics, and they are in apathy, and a significant proportion of them are not pro-government. Don't think that many people are in a heroinic state as a result of reading the letter, but they will be angry at what the government wants in their private sphere again. [[János Lázár: What is the heroinic condition? I've heard of a heroic struggle.]] I ask the honourable Secretary of State: do you think that the population has been properly informed of the details of the targets? Shouldn't you be more aware of proper communication in this geopolitical situation? I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply, which reassures citizens. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Defence Tamás Vargha.
u2016-04-04-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your question, as you have repeatedly pointed out that the management of data on national economic resources is an obligation within the remit of the Hungarian Defence Office. This is the task system that has been and has been published in the responsibilities of all governments so far, and is carried out by keeping records and clarifying the records. However, this does not yet extend or extend to private vehicles. That is, no one has to fear and fear that their private property will be lost or threatened. This procedure is not just a domestic feature of Hungary, because it is in the fundamental interest of every country that is responsible for its safety, so the need is supported by a multitude of international examples. This task is carried out by the Minister under the responsibility of the Ministry and the Hungarian Defence Office, in accordance with the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-04-108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question. It's an address. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2016-04-04-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dakota says if everyone in the pub says you're drunk, don't wait for them to kick you out, it's time to go home. This occurred to me, looking at how he tried to encrypt the public use of the Hungarian National Bank Pallas Athena Foundations by all means. The fact that the MNB Foundations carry out public tasks and manage data of public interest, we have also said so. They told me about civil society law enforcement, told me about it by independent experts. The President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the President of the Data Protection Authority, the President of the Republic, said the Budapest Court of Justice, the Capital Court, the Curia and the Constitutional Court on Thursday last week. As a result of the decision of the Constitutional Court, it became clear to everyone that public money does not lose its public wealth by leaving it to you, György Matolcsy. Well, let's stop here for a second. Mr President, The Constitutional Court's decision also made it clear that the MNB foundations, including the one of which you are the chairman of the Board, are engaged in illegal practices. For more than a year, public interest data has been illegally denied. They maintain illegal practices and pay lawyers to hide the data. This decision also made it clear that the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank fall within the scope of the Public Procurement Act, so they are considered to be contracting authorities. Then I ask: what do you intend to do to restore the legitimate functioning of the Pallas Athena foundations founded by the MNB? When will you stop keeping secrets, and when will you release the required data of public interest? Since the foundation of the Pallas Athene Domus Animae Foundation, which you led, how many public procurement procedures have you initiated in your procurements? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2016-04-04-110	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy.
u2016-04-04-111	Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, As you know, the Hungarian National Bank manages public funds, builds public wealth for the common good. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew's intervention.]] We have a statute, we have a social responsibility programme, and as is usually the custom of the central banks of the European Union, we are transferring public money for educational, social and other liability purposes. We can do this because the new management of the Hungarian National Bank has achieved that the central bank no longer has a loss, but has a very significant positive result. At the time when this was not the case, there would not have been a social responsibility programme, although there were foundations within the framework of the Hungarian National Bank. There's been a debate. It was an argument. When the Magyar Nemzeti Bank decided to order property, it assumed that public money would create community wealth, and that the community property would no longer go on, it was a fact, a private property, and we wanted to separate the state wealth from the civilian property. The Constitutional Court has finally decided that its public money character has not been lost by the assets flowing from the Hungarian National Bank to the community property. [[Attila Mesterházy: Does that surprise you? Nándor Gúr: Don't you feel ridiculous?]] After there was a Court of First Instance ruling, which did not so, after there was a law amending the Hungarian National Banking Act, with which the foundations operated and it turned out that the Constitutional Court had reviewed it, I think it is quite clear that all Pallas Athena Foundations will publish all public information. Of course, we respect that, as President of the Domus Animae Foundation, I respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thus, all data of public interest will be made public. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Cancel! Cancel! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-04-112	Thank you, Mr. President. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. [[13.30]]
u2016-04-04-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Several experts have already said this, but we also claim that the profits of the central bank are not from your unique talent, but from the conscious weakening of the forint, which has caused invaluable damage to families with foreign exchange loans. Mr President, That debate you mentioned, you were the only one who held it. So you are in a debate with the President of the Republic, the heads of the Data Protection Authority, the parliamentary parties, the experts of the Academy of Sciences, the legal protection organisations, so everyone, that they did not acknowledge that the foundations were managing public money, even though it was clear to everyone. I am very confident that your consciousness will now see through this situation. You did not answer my question about public procurement, but I would like to tell you that I am interested in five lawsuits concerning the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, but I have not yet received any data of public interest. Thank you.
u2016-04-04-114	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the President.
u2016-04-04-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I reject your assumption and even your accusation that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank will make any decision on any exchange rate policy considerations. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has no exchange rate goal, neither to weaken, nor to strengthen, nor to wish the Hungarian national currency in the future. There's water all over the glass. The Constitutional Court finally decided. Everyone takes that into account. I propose that the State Audit Office be asked by the Parliament to check the Pallas Athena Foundations backwards, at present and in advance. There should be a control over each decision of the Foundation in addition to today's controls, the control of the State Audit Office. I am not interested in your actions, but obviously all public interest data will be made public, and I propose once again that the State Audit Office be put into control. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-116	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 Shades of Corruption - Put out the cards! What makes the Prime Minister's environment rich? 4th episode. The Prime Minister appointed Minister János Lázár to respond. I would like to ask Mr. Congressman, Mr. Group leader, if you will accept the person of the response.
u2016-04-04-117	Mr President, Dear Minister, Since I would like to ask Prime Minister Viktor Orbán whether Lőrinc Mészáros is a stróman...
u2016-04-04-118	Will you accept it?
u2016-04-04-119	...or not, so I'd like to wait anyway. Although the Minister is legendary, I think he doesn't have all the information in this case, so I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-120	So you won't take it. Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - Settlement Bond or Habony shares? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Minister János Lázár to respond. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-121	Mr. President. I would like to wait for Prime Minister on this because of the importance of the issue. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-122	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - Why is Florin Farkas in sheep's clothing not held accountable for his abuse of ORÖ? Why did Fidesz Gypsy integration cover stolen tablets and overinvoicing? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Minister János Lázár to respond. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-123	An important question I would like to hear from the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-124	Thank you very much. He won't take it. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Fifty Shades of Corruption - The Lame Dog, the Liar Man and the One-eyed Cousin. [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] The Prime Minister appointed Minister János Lázár to respond. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-125	Since Mr Orbán is a resident of the secret country with a strong link to Viktor Orbán, I would like to wait for Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-126	Thank you very much. So you won't take it. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, President Novák, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 shades of corruption - all works by L. Simon László. The Prime Minister appointed Minister János Lázár to respond. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-127	L. Simon László, famous for his own obscene poems, I don't intend to quote any of his sentences, Mr. President, so there's no need to be alarmed...
u2016-04-04-128	Thank you, so you won't take it.
u2016-04-04-129	I would therefore consider it important, however, to give Prime Minister the opportunity to explain himself personally. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-130	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - By supporting much-spoken family farms, did they mean only the families of Mészáros Felcsút, Tiborcz, Csányi and some pro-government politicians and oligarchs? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Minister János Lázár to respond. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and for the opportunity, but given the importance of this matter, I would like to wait for Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-132	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Fifty Shades of Corruption - Does Mr.Prime Minister ask if he really hit 100 billion forints on the owners of companies with many offshore backgrounds? It's an address. At the request of the Prime Minister, János Lázár will respond if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's an honor, but I'd like to wait for Prime Minister to answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-134	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-135	Although Minister Gypsy integration is indisputable, I would rather wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-136	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr. Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Fifty Shades of Corruption - Stadium, Railway, State Lands - Is Lőrinc Mészáros always the winner? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Minister János Lázár to respond. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-137	Thank you, Mr. President. Since Lőrinc Orbán Mészáros is a personal good friend of Viktor Orbán, I would therefore like to wait for Prime Minister's reply regarding his incredibly richness. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-138	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Fifty shades of corruption - Who else can borrow free private halls and paintings from the Museum of Fine Arts? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Minister János Lázár to respond. I ask the honourable Member if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-139	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Minister, for this opportunity, but I would like to wait for Prime Minister's personal response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-140	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr.Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Fifty shades of corruption - What is hidden from the New Generation Centre for not allowing the Court to carry out its own audit? It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Minister János Lázár to reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-141	Thank you for the opportunity, but there is a dubious spending of billions of forints on an important matter that I would like to await Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-142	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister once again an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - Why could they carry the public money with Simicska's wheel and Nyerges' tow, and why is there no consequence after breaking up with Fides? It's an address. [[13.40]] The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-143	Mr President, in vain I have reported the case of Viktor Orbán's former oligarchs, it seems that Viktor Orbán must now appear in this case, otherwise we cannot move the accountability forward. Maybe you should give him the launch permit here at the National Assembly. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-144	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Mrs Jobbik, notary, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - When will Andrew G. Vajna's casinos, a two-armed robber, be controlled by the NAV online cash registers? It's an address. At the request of the Prime Minister, János Lázár will respond if the Member accepts the Minister's identity.
u2016-04-04-145	Mr President, thank you for this opportunity, but given that Andy Vajna is clearly linked to the Prime Minister, I would therefore certainly like to wait for an answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-146	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - Why has the state-owned Eximbank created to encourage foreign trade activity become the paying place for the oligarchs near the Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, but I think that this complicated network of companies, apart from those involved, may be the best way to see it, so I would like to wait for it to be answered personally. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-148	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - Why wait for Jobbik to come to the government by eliminating immunity and the procrastination of economic crimes committed by politicians, and by introducing double punishment and callback to them? It's an address. At the request of the Prime Minister, Minister János Lázár will respond if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister's answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-150	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of Jobbik, notary, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - Is the waste business now the big dog? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Minister János Lázár to respond. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-151	Unfortunately, I cannot accept it, given the fact that it is precisely this size of shit that requires the Prime Minister's reply. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-152	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. President Novák, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 shades of corruption - do you not think it is suspicious that Péter Szijjártó is supposed to be being held by his parents and Zsolt Semjén by his underage children? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Yes or no?]]
u2016-04-04-153	Mr President, I am such an admirer of Viktor Orbán that he doesn't have to be any bigger than me, and he doesn't have to be...
u2016-04-04-154	Thank you very much.
u2016-04-04-155	...in the spirit of that respect, I'd like to wait for him. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-156	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 shades of corruption - the joint mayor of Fidesz and MSZP on the bench of the defendants: do you have a responsibility in this, Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-157	Thank you for the opportunity, but since I am curious about the Prime Minister's responsibility, I would like to wait for his answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-158	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 shades of corruption - Who else is Fidesz Zrt. among the owners of Garanchi, Habony, Butcher and Vajna? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-159	The opportunity is very promising, but I believe that Fidesz Zrt. mentioned in the title. His main owner, Viktor Orbán, must still be asked about his affairs. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-160	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 shades of corruption - According to the Government's earlier promise, instead of large plants, he provides agricultural subsidies to small and medium-sized farms. Oh, right? It's an address. At the request of the Prime Minister, the answer will be given by János Lázár, if he accepts the Minister's identity.
u2016-04-04-161	Thank you for this opportunity, Mr President, but since the Prime Minister has personally promised to support family economies, I would wait for the Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-162	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr.Dániel Z., representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. 50 shades of corruption - When will the bank abuse be fully screened? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-163	Mr President, Dear House, Since we've already had a run-in on the looting of foreign exchange credentials, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister's point of view. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-164	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 Shades of Corruption - What is the next area to which Lőrinc Mészáros puts his hand with the help of fortune, God and Viktor Orbán? It's an address. [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-165	Thank you, Mr. President. Given the gravity of the case, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister and ask him personally to answer the question about the nation's gas mechanic getting rich. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-04-04-166	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. 50 shades of corruption - for politician criminals of SZDSZ everything is free - instead of handcuffs with diplomatic passports... Instead of handcuffs, the diploma pass is... The title is given The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to his urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-167	No wonder the president was shocked, it's truly outrageous. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Politicians in SZDSZ cannot be ignored, so I think that this issue should be dealt with personally by the Prime Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-04-04-168	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - Has the bank been cleared for public loans taken up by the former SZDSZ but not repaid? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-169	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President, but since the Prime Minister should have an insight into what happened to the money of the former politicians of SZDSZ, I would wait for him to answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-170	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Fifty Shades of Corruption - Why are they turning their own vassals into large owners, while most of the Hungarian countryside is being pushed into maids? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-171	It's tempting, it's an honor, I'm sure the Minister could tell you a lot about the land auction, but I'd rather wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-172	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 shades of corruption - What is the responsibility of Viktor Orbán in the scandal around the M4? It's an address. [[13.50]] The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-173	I have no doubt that I would get a prepared answer, but everyone in the area is curious about the opinion of Viktor Orbán. I want to hear his words, too, so I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-174	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 Shades of Corruption - Gold-Edging Gold-Palace Course for Early Rising Politician Wives? It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Minister János Lázár to reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-175	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr President, but since a large part of the members of the government are involved, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister to answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-176	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 shades of corruption - Is Viktor Orbán hiding behind the curtain again from sensitive issues? It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Minister János Lázár to reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-177	Mr. President. I would insist specifically on the Prime Minister's person, because that question is addressed to him. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-178	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. President Novák, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. 50 shades of corruption - He divided the orange republic with more fabulous assets than the hundred-moon Habony among how many of his stómans? It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Minister János Lázár to reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-179	Well, the hand shakes at this time, because there are a lot of culprits in these mugs, but I think that the number one responsible is Viktor Orbán. Let's give him the opportunity to explain himself personally. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-180	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr. Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Mr. Vice-President, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Fifty Shades of Corruption - Wolf and the Seven Goats - what about ORÖ's HUF 1.6 billion debt? The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-181	Thank you. I'll wait, like my colleagues, for the Prime Minister's presence. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-182	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - Can the companies behind the suspicious settlement government bond business really be linked to Antal Rogán and Árpád Habony? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-183	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr President, but apart from the Habony-Rogán-Vajna Trio, who is interested in the settlement government bond business, perhaps the Prime Minister knows best what is going on here in the Fidesz House. I'll wait. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-184	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: '50 Shades of Corruption - How long will we remain a country without consequences? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-185	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a very tempting opportunity, but I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister's personal response. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-186	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of Jobbik, notary, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. 50 shades of corruption - Nationalisation of mass catering as a welfare measure: come on, don't feed me with this. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I will ask the congresswoman, the notary, if she will accept the person of the response.
u2016-04-04-187	Mr. President. Given the social weight of the case, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister in any way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-188	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - On the autumn road, the Minister of State of the Prime Minister's Business? It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Minister János Lázár to reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-189	Mr. President. Since this is a very important question, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister to answer his opinion on the autumn speech, the Fidesz autumn speech. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-190	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - Why has Fidesz and his Majesty's opposition led by his orange baron become the common dog of the MSZP to buy the Kopasi dam from a government loan of HUF 16.5 billion, by making one oligarch owner of 51 percent and 49 percent respectively? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-191	Mr. President. Thank you for the presentation of the question. But he also has a subtitle: where did Viktor Orbán go? [[Deterioration from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]] This is the question that we would most like to have answered, and about that, by the way...
u2016-04-04-192	So you won't take it.
u2016-04-04-193	...I would be happy to accept the President's reply. But if you don't know that, then let's wait for the Prime Minister's account and account for it. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-194	Dear Congressman, The house rules settle my responsibility and opportunity, so all I can say is that the Prime Minister has to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 shades of corruption - Special action for Fidesz politicians, land at 500th price? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to his urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-195	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. I'd like to personally hear from the Prime Minister if he can buy anything at 500. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-196	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 shades of corruption - Who are the strómans of Viktor Orbán? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-197	Mr. President. Since the Prime Minister's best interests are known to the Prime Minister, I will wait for Viktor Orbán's reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-198	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - What: can be open on Sunday and do not need an online cash register? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-199	Although the Minister looks at me questioningly, I am unable to draw the question out of me, I will wait for the Prime Minister to do so, Mr President. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-200	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. President Novák, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Fifty Shades of Corruption - How many state loans help Fidesz and beneficial Hungarian András Vajna in the spread of North Korean news editing in Hungary, especially in the case of TV2? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-201	Mr. President. Perhaps the Prime Minister was hiding behind the curtain, as he had done before in our questions? [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-04-04-202	Mr. Prime Minister, thank you, have a seat...
u2016-04-04-203	No...
u2016-04-04-204	...at the hour of the third immediate question... [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Yes or no?]]
u2016-04-04-205	All right, then I won't take it. [[A statement from the benches of Fidesz: You are pathetic!]]
u2016-04-04-206	...you have to answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. 50 Shades of Corruption - Are they changing the law so that they can cheat and steal in peace? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-207	Mr. President. Since these amendments were clearly carried out with the permission of Viktor Orbán, I will wait for Viktor Orbán to give me an answer to these amendments. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-04-208	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. [[14.00]] Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 Shades of Corruption - Why was there less accounted for than the number of government commissioners in charge of accountability? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But since the Prime Minister also attached great importance to accountability in the 2010 election campaign, I would like to know the answer personally from him. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-210	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 shades of corruption - Real estates on the shore of Lake Balaton? Badacsonytomaj is waiting for justice. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the Minister's identity.
u2016-04-04-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since the mayor of the settlement has already contacted several wallets in the particular case and received an answer which is unacceptable, I would also like to wait and ask the Prime Minister's opinion, so I would like to wait. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-212	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Fifty Shades of Corruption - Has the Prime Minister also turned a blind eye to the actions of their representative involved in Fidesz corruption in Balmazújváros? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-213	Although Minister Lazarus has appointed his fellow party involved in corruption as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would still like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-214	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.50 shades of corruption - you can be sure that while Fidesz is on the government, and my work will be there, foreigners in Hungary - whatever they decide in Brussels - will never buy land here. Is that what the Prime Minister lied to you about earlier? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-215	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr President, but, as you said in the title, the Prime Minister personally promised that foreigners would not buy land in Hungary, and today they are buying state land.
u2016-04-04-216	Thank you very much.
u2016-04-04-217	A lot of it. So I'd like to wait and explain to the Prime Minister. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-218	Thank you. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. President Novak, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Fifty shades of corruption - opening an eastern bank account or opening an eastern bank account, after Gábor Simon's freedom? The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-219	Mr President, the question is poetic, the answer is, I'm afraid, will be prose. However, since we don't know which offshore paradise Prime Minister will perform his urgent public duties...
u2016-04-04-220	Thank you very much. So yes or no?
u2016-04-04-221	...so I think we should wait for him and give him an answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-222	Thank you. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - After spectacular door slamming, T-Systems receives the most fatty snacks in health promotion? It's an address. At the request of the Prime Minister, Minister János Lázár will respond if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-223	Only Viktor Orbán can provide a briefing on the Prime Minister's favourite domestic troubadour and T-Systems, so I would certainly like to wait for the Prime Minister's reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-224	Thank you. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Fifty Shades of Corruption - What are they hiding? If it isn't the gasman of the nation, will some of the HUF 500 billion for the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway be enriched? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-04-225	Mr President, since the fate of HUF 500 billion is at stake, and Viktor Orbán, I believe that he knows Lőrinc Mészáros better, also in the field of railway construction...
u2016-04-04-226	Thank you.
u2016-04-04-227	.......................................................................................................................................... He's the gasman of the epoch-making nation, so I'd like to wait for him with the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-228	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Fifty Shades of Corruption - Zsolt Horváth's secret business in the benches of Fidesz for 16 years was also exposed with the title of the world's largest offshore leak. The Prime Minister asked Minister János Lázár to reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-229	Mr President, since this Fidesz offshore knight may have entered Parliament with the Prime Minister's personal approval and may have been a Member of Parliament...
u2016-04-04-230	Thank you very much.
u2016-04-04-231	...so he has to answer how such people can be within the walls of Parliament. [[More of the Jobbik factions: Shame!]]
u2016-04-04-232	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. Why does György Matolcsy manage his own pocket money with the profits of the Hungarian National Bank? It's an address. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2016-04-04-233	Mr President, Of course, I accept you as a response. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] And I would also like to say that everyone in this country is surprised by the huge profits that the Hungarian National Bank has made, and many people are even debating the source of this profit, but that is 260 billion forints that you currently capitalise on the foundations named after Pallas Athens, not small money. We believe that this money would be a better place than for you and your staff to decide freely about it, to thwart control. That is why we have considered as a success that when I personally turned to János Áder and asked the President of the Republic to send the bill on the encryption of national bank money to a preliminary standard control, the President of the Republic took this oath and the Constitutional Court gave my position that this money would continue to be public money. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Not the President of the Republic!]] And you can't farm it in such a way that we hide the fate of this amazing wealth from the public of this country. The President of the Central Bank is certainly also monitoring the meeting of the Parliament. If nothing else, you may know from the 50 questions that you have said that there are a number of concrete corruption cases, corruption charges against the government, and I would therefore like to ask you how the fate of this money will be verified. Answer me this, please, Mr. President of the Central Bank. We are also interested in how the previous spending took place. On what basis exactly does the Hungarian National Bank choose an investment purpose for itself? We can agree that these are unorthodox investments, that the Hungarian National Bank will invest money in various expensive properties and art treasures. I'm asking you, why does the central bank management manage the profits that would otherwise apply to the state exercising ownership rights as a pocket money. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-234	Thank you very much. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy.
u2016-04-04-235	Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Mr. Vice President. The management of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank operates and manages the public money entrusted to it according to the Hungarian National Bank Act. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Or not!]] Yes, it is managed by the Hungarian National Bank Act. We have received three mandates from you, from the legislature: the mandate of price stability, financial stability, and if Hungary and the Hungarian National Bank fulfil these, then the mandate of supporting economic policy. [[Dr. András Schiffer: And the credit victims?]] After completing the first two mandates, it is therefore our duty to achieve the support of the Hungarian government's economic policy by all possible means. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Whose money?]] Within the framework of this, the Hungarian National Bank launched programmes, some 12 programmes, which resulted in a significant result not in losses, but in significant results of the Hungarian central bank. [[Dr. András Schiffer: In the free market?]] We spent some of this, to be exact, HUF 280 billion on social responsibility programmes with six foundations operating within them. The Foundations of Pallasz Athena - now final - have been adopted by the Constitutional Court according to the rules of public finance [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] ; this means that the decision of the Constitutional Court, before the decision of the Metropolitan Court, overrided the decision of the Court of First Instance, where there was still a dispute, and, moreover, the decision of the Constitutional Court was not unanimous. [[14.10]] So now it's on the issue of public money and community property. After that, all the data will be made public, and I think that this will show precisely why, when and what funds have been spent to strengthen public wealth by the six Pallas Athena foundations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I give the floor to Congressman Volner for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2016-04-04-237	Thank you. Mr President, I see that it took Jobbik's struggle with serious sacrifices to finally get to the point where the Constitutional Court will no longer allow the fate of an amazing amount of money to be hidden. The President of the Republic has acted on our motion that the Constitutional Court has made it clear that this money remains public money and must be verifiable and transparent. And that, Mr President, which you have referred to is indeed the law, but these laws were made by a fidesz majority of Parliament, obviously in order to be able to manage this money as well as a number of similar state institutions manage money, and this is not a small part of the reason that corruption causes corruption in Hungary more than HUF 400 billion each year. What we want, Mr President, is for the committees of Parliament to be able to verify exactly what you are spending and what kind of considerations you are spending money on. This intention is pure and noble. And what's going on at the central bank is, I think, a legitimately controlled activity. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-238	Thank you very much. President Matolcsy also deserves a one-minute rejoinder.
u2016-04-04-239	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Just a few minutes ago, I made a proposal, and I can only propose that the State Audit Office examine the management of the six Pallas Athena foundations and other MNB foundations retroactively, both now and in advance. I think that, in addition to what you are proposing - we met the other day and you have made a proposal - it is that, for example, the Value Reserve programme, which is a social wealth-enhancing programme - more than half of the European Union's central banks have a collection of fine arts. [[Dr. István Józsa: And do you pay the costs? Dr. András Schiffer: Can you rent the paintings?]] o For example, why shouldn't one or more of the Parliament's committees get to know and comment on such a programme, the Value Reserve programme? So, in the context of hearings, as it was and is currently an exercise with the European Central Bank. I think that all such programmes can be presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How much is it worth who doesn't have anything?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-04-04-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since Minister can give me an authentic answer to my question, I might as well accept it. [[Uproar and interrogations from Jobbik's ranks: Obstruction!]] But I think that, since it concerns the substance of government policy, I will wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-04-242	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The national bourgeoisie goes to a tax haven? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-04-04-243	Thank you, Mr. President. Given the fact that I would also like to see the development of Hungarian-Panama relations, I would therefore like to wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-04-244	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. The Hungarian National Bank is above the law? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2016-04-04-245	Thank you very much. Mr President, In the last year and a half, there hasn't been a month where the MNB hasn't called attention to itself in some case. They bought the art treasures, overvalued real estate, in several cases showing offshore companies, and then they created the foundations, giving them nearly 300 billion forints. They started creating an alternative, unorthodox education system, spending more money on it than higher education institutions get in a year. But with their intention of encryption, they went beyond all limits. That's a gross violation of the Fundamental Law. On two points, the Constitutional Court found the amendment to the law to be unlawful. The Constitutional Court stated that the funds allocated to the foundations set up by the MNB are public money and that no law can be created that precludes the disclosure of data retroactively. In its decision, the Constitutional Court stated that the MNB could establish an economic company or foundation only in accordance with its tasks and primary purpose. Therefore, the law rejected by the Constitutional Court reiterates the exlex status of the MNB. The Central Bank Act sets out precisely which tasks belong to the core tasks of the MNB, but the law, Mr President, cannot even be found with a magnifying glass that the MNB is entitled to the spending of the funds contested by the LMP. First, I ask Mr President when the MNB will publish the data on the management of the foundations it has set up. I also ask when the central bank's management will restore the MNB's legal operation. Are you willing to liquidate funds? [[Lajos Korózs: One billion dollars!]] When will spending incompatible with basic tasks be stopped? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-04-04-246	Thank you very much. I give the floor to President Matolcsy in response.
u2016-04-04-247	Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The legal operation of the Hungarian National Bank may be controlled to the greatest extent by a number of institutions of the state institutions. Such is the supervisory board [[Dr. András Schiffer: There was no supervisory board for a year.]] Such is the SAO, the Economic Committee of the Parliament, and the European Central Bank and the European Commission. Within the framework of legal operation, the Hungarian National Bank, as has already been mentioned, has made a number of decisions that you object to, within the framework of the mandate of supporting economic policy, under the Hungarian National Bank Act. He objects by the way that he unfortunately mistreats the numbers, since only the profits of the assets made available to the foundations for educational purposes by the Hungarian National Bank can be used. By no means does it mean spending 280 billion forints, because it's a trust fund circle. Property does not disappear, it is there, even to a significant extent, in most of it in sovereign debt or in real estate with a value already higher than market real estate value. So we are talking about a very dense and reliable central bank. So the exlex situation is not only not in its place, but it is the other way around: it is the state institution that is frequently and reliably controlled both nationally and abroad. I think that, of course, the question could also be asked of whose interest it is that all the data of the Board of Directors of the Hungarian National Bank should be published. It's out. Whose interest is it? There is no such practice for a single EU central bank to publish all central bank data. And the fact that the Constitutional Court has made a decision, we respect it, and all data on public money will, of course, be published by the foundations in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-248	Thank you, President Matolcsy. The congresswoman is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2016-04-04-249	Thank you very much. Mr President, there seems to be a difference in perception with regard to the central bank law. You see that what you do not forbid is allowed, and we see that what is set out in the law must be implemented. If we add up the sums you've spent in the last year and a half, that's nearly 400 billion. We see that this 400 billion would have a much bigger place in health care, education, perhaps raising people's wages than you have spent this 400 billion forints. So we think that the foundations should be abolished as soon as possible. By the way, the LMP has submitted a legislative amendment to the Parliament, in which it proposes that the result be paid to the budget by the central bank. I would like to ask Mr President if you support this proposal. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-04-04-250	Thank you very much. I give the floor to President Matolcsy. [[14.20]]
u2016-04-04-251	It may be worth saying once again, honourable Member, that the National Bank of Hungary manages under the Hungarian National Bank Act. If the law says that economic policy can be supported by all means and by all means by the National Bank of Hungary, if the conditions for price stability and financial stability are met, then all the decisions that are otherwise controlled by state and non-state bodies - for example, the European Union and the European Central Bank - could be done, I think they have had to be taken. There's no mention of spending 400 billion forints. Once again, for the HUF 280 billion ordering of wealth, the only thing we are talking about is the spending of the return on the trust fund. Of course, the President of the Hungarian National Bank supports any rational proposal that is in line with the principles and practices of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-252	Thank you, President Matolcsy. Dear Parliament, Márius Révész, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "For the sake of the socialist past! Where's three billion forints gone from Teresa City? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Thank you. Congressman Márius Révész has the floor.
u2016-04-04-253	Dear Secretary of State, The purity of public life is such a fundamental value in a democracy that must be given particular attention. It's about taxpayers' money in these cases. They're the ones who're the ones who're gonna get the job done. In the case, which was only known as the Erzsébetváros real estate panama, the Curia finally sentenced Dr. György Gál to eight-and-a-half years in prison, and György Hunvald, former Mayor of Erzsébetváros, was also sentenced to imprisonment. However, we have not known exactly where 3 billion forints disappeared in Terézváros in the next district for almost ten years. We have statements, of course, and the prosecutor's office also has, because they have filed a criminal suit against the socialist deputy mayor responsible for former wealth management, György Fürst and 23 other former representatives of the local government, who are charged with a particularly high level of misappropriation. According to the current charge, the association of the metropolitan authorities concluded a contract with Centrum Parkoló Kft. to operate the parking system of the municipalities concerned, which involved subcontractors, and the subcontractors used new subcontractors in order to make the operation more efficient. According to the prosecutor's office, outsourced activities, ordered services were economically unjustified and detrimental. Between 2006 and 2011, the defendants caused a financial disadvantage of HUF 3 billion. György Fürst and dozens of his associates were also prosecuted in 2011 in connection with the sale of property under 47 Andrássy Road. Dear Secretary of State, As a Member of Parliament, I think it is important to see clearly what the government has done so far to prevent and reduce corruption, and what it is doing to prevent such and similar cases. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-04-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Fidesz government has taken committed and meaningful steps to combat corruption and has declared zero tolerance against corruption. Our goal is to make Hungary one of the world's lowest countries infected with corruption. We are not only talking about the opposition, but we are also doing something about corruption. Since its establishment, the Fidesz government has implemented the most intensive anti-corruption measures in the last 20 years. Our starting point is that Hungary's rule of law, where no one can be above the law, must bear the consequences of any man who has broken the law. The legitimate expectation of people is to reduce crime and to act quickly, efficiently, proportionately and legally against criminals. In April 2015, the Government adopted the National Anti-Corruption Programme 2015-2018 and its Action Plan for 2015-16. Unlike in the past, the scope of this programme goes beyond public administration, it also puts forward measures and proposals, for example, to strengthen the cleanliness of business life. As regards corruption prevention, it should be pointed out that, following the municipal elections, the new leaders of the municipalities were prepared to defend themselves against the various forms of corruption. This is an important task, since, following police and customs officers working on our borders, local government employees are most exposed to corruption experiments. We're working to stop these experiments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-256	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Márius Révész.
u2016-04-04-257	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, If we recall, after 2002, there were virtually everyday scandals leaking out of different districts and cities, such as XI. district, Gyula Molnár, we can think of the VI. and VII. The former socialist deputy mayor went to prison in Kőbánya, but we can also say rural towns. It is certainly encouraging to learn from the districts, municipalities, that there is significantly, incomparably less corruption news than we have gained in the period after 2002. I urge Mr Secretary of State to continue on this path. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-258	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also applies to the Secretary of State.
u2016-04-04-259	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I could continue this line. Jobbik has just asked questions about corruption, but has not responded, for example, to the biggest corruption scandal in the European Union, or to Béla Kovács' corruption scandal. These questions remain unanswered to this day. I know that it is difficult for the better Members to bear these questions, but I think that this must be answered sooner or later. Moreover, the European Commission stated in the European Union's anti-corruption report that Hungary has made the greatest progress in the fight against corruption within the European Union. Of course, from this point of view, we cannot sit back, never be satisfied, always do more to combat corruption, and this government will take these steps. Honourable Member, I assure you that in the future we will do more to combat corruption, and I ask you to support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-260	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This agenda is closed. Before speaking after the agenda, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár, who has applied in order of business.
u2016-04-04-261	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, I would like to state first of all to the protocol that the government, as the leader of the executive power, was still ready to settle the work that it had done or failed to do before the legislation. I would like to say that I am shocked that my better fellow Members have taken away the right and the opportunity of opposition representatives from asking the government today, even though they could have asked questions. Jobbik's action prevented representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party and LMP from asking the government. I believe that this is contrary to house rules, so I ask you to investigate this. On the other hand, Jobbik did not act in a fair and non-sportistic manner, because he made accusations on issues for which he did not give the government the opportunity to answer, although in many cases my better colleagues mentioned issues of ministerial responsibility. For example, I could not respond to moral concerns about my own ministerial commissioner, as my better colleagues prevented this. I can't imagine and dare not assume that the MSZP and LMP would have given up their extremely important opposition rights to ask the government. I believe that if the LMP and the MSZP have done so, they have abused the voter's trust; it seems that LMP and MSZP have renounced the exercise of parliamentary law in favour of Jobbik. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-04-262	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Minister of State came forward on a case-by-case basis, and I will give all the political groups the opportunity to express their views in a moment. First, Mr President Novák came forward, followed by Gergely Bárándy and then by Mr András Schiffer in a one-minute time frame.
u2016-04-04-263	Dear Parliament, I must reject the Minister's accusations, because on the one hand, you created the house rules that we, acting in good faith, asked a lot of questions. A lot of things we haven't had a chance to do in a long time, because you, for example, have limited the two-hour period of questions every two weeks to one and a half hours. I therefore think that, acting in good faith, we have formulated questions that the Prime Minister would have had the opportunity to answer if he did not regularly pretend to be absent on the grounds of his urgent public duties. He was often exposed; hiding behind the curtains from the question, he had done so before. [[John Lázár: Fifty questions have been submitted!]] So I think you have an opportunity to answer. [[To the intervention of John Lazarus:]] Don't yell, press the button again, Minister. The representative of the government can do this at any time - study the house rules - and react, as he may have reacted now, and can respond after the agenda, as we do after many agendas. I do think that questions were possible, and there was a chance to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank to all three opposition groups, which is why the accusations that say that we would have acted in bad faith are unfounded. [[14.30]]
u2016-04-04-264	Thank you very much.
u2016-04-04-265	Perhaps so many substantive questions have never been raised in the history of Parliament in relation to corruption, political crime, which is one of Hungary's biggest problems. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-04-04-266	Thank you very much.
u2016-04-04-267	So it would be good to have some meaningful answers to these questions. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-268	Have a seat, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, on behalf of the MSZP Group, in a one-minute time frame.
u2016-04-04-269	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I rarely agree with Minister Lazarus, that is what I am doing now. We will also propose that the House Committee discuss and investigate this unprecedented case. This was not an exercise of good faith, but an abuse of right on Jobbik's part. It has indeed prevented opposition parties from using this opposition instrument, knowing that we have been waiting a month for Minister Matolcsy to come in personally. We wanted to ask Minister Matolcsy three questions, one of which we succeeded, and two of which we did not. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that when a person abuses opposition powers in this way, he is not, in the first place, subjecting them to the ruling party, but to other opposition parties being deprived of the opportunity to exercise their powers of control of the government. So I find what Jobbik is doing especially immoral, unspoken, and abuse of right. [[Forebod Novak: It was wrong to listen to the political crime, I'm not surprised.]] I deeply condemn you, and I hope the House Committee will do the same. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-04-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Schiffer, leader of the Group, from the LMP, followed by Márius Révész, from the Fidesz Group, is given the opportunity within a one-minute time frame.
u2016-04-04-271	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, First of all, I'd like to reject your accusations, and the LMP faction is documented not to give up any license. That's where our questions line up that we couldn't tell you. We couldn't tell you because, for example, you were kind enough to make house rules, so you have to complain not to the opposition, but to the Fidesz-KDNP. In other words, what you said about the fair procedure, Minister, is, of course, right. I'm just suggesting that everyone sweeps their own house first. From week to week, Fidesz MEPs do not question the competence of the government, the individual ministers, in order to put out opposition representatives, who do not have the house-to-house option to respond to this. They are asking questions which, where appropriate, are the competence of the Court of Auditors or other non-governmental bodies. You're also abusing, if you like, the possibility of house rules, the same way you're playing house rules. I would like to ask you to contact Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group, before you wish to give an ethical lecture in Parliament. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-272	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész in a one-minute time frame, Fidesz.
u2016-04-04-273	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Jobbik's hacking was unjustified, too, because if the house rules had been read, it is stated that the Prime Minister must reply within the next three times, but their group leader is justified and can only put the question in a place where he stands. [[Your predecessor Novak keeps interrupting.]] This means that in spite of the 50 questions that have been asked here, within three weeks, the House Rule requires Prime Minister to answer only two questions. So for that reason... [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true.]] Read the house rules. It is therefore quite clear that your proceedings are not in good faith. They asked me the 50 questions, but they can't tell me 48 of them by the house. So I will join my fellow Member, Barándy, and I must say that this is indeed an abuse of the spirit of legislation and house rules. House rules undoubtedly also mean my dear colleague Novak...
u2016-04-04-274	Thank you.
u2016-04-04-275	... it says that every faction has the right to ask questions once in a while. So if you could ask me 10 more questions, you'd still be missing 40 questions. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-04-04-276	Thank you very much.
u2016-04-04-277	So unfortunately, according to the house rules, you can't ask these questions in full. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-04-278	Dear Parliament, It will continue at the House Committee meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr László Varju, Member of the Council and independent Member of the European Parliament, has applied for a post-meeting address on the subject of the last week's events. Before you begin your speech, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who wish to leave, to do so quickly and, in a little silence, we will be watching Mr László Varju. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-04-279	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I was almost touched by Mr Lazarus' awareness of sportsmanship. How well it is in line with the functioning of Fidesz, I would like to say a few thoughts on how Mr Rogán is acting as mayor and even as a minister at the moment. It has been proven that Antal Rogán's V. district government paid for the Internet portal "Pesti guys" with taxpayers' money. They tried to get away with it, so they initiated the liquidation and liquidation of the company. Therefore, they wanted to clean up the documents in this way, but fortunately, this has not yet happened, because due to a slight indiscretion, it did result in a request for the authentic instrument. By launching the winding-up, they wanted to make these documents disappear... - some of which have been rescued in this way. The liquidation company sent these documents and proved that the V. district municipality, led by Antal Rogán, paid the propaganda pages of the Pest boys with taxpayers' money. After the winding-up, it is clear from the documents sent by the winding-up company that the Pesti guys' publisher kept sending them the performance certificates, and the Rogán Fidesz local government company gave them the money as a paying place. For this reason, articles were written, sometimes writings aimed at discrediting political opponents were published. It is certain that materials were ordered in ten million items and operated as party cards in public money. They also told us that we're reporting to the D.A. on suspicion of misrepresentation. By the way, in February, it was discovered that the Pesti boys had been exposed to the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture ordered 12 articles from them last year to produce articles and articles agreed with exact text content in various land affairs. In this respect, we also learned from the press that they received HUF 12 million from the Prime Minister's Office, HUF 10 million from the Ministry of the Interior, HUF 4.4 million and HUF 3.8 million from the Fidesz fraction. Thus, although this site does not have authentic and public reading measurement, they still have almost exclusively public and friendly orders, such adverts can be seen, such as the Erzsébet voucher advert. So, these sponsored articles, these embarrassing articles, those ordered by government parties, their representatives could order from this company, and this could have resulted in all of this. In addition, there are articles in the certificates of performance with a precise text agreed. In the treaties, I would also like to draw attention to the way that János Lázár works in the framework of sportsmanship by drawing attention to what the Fidesz faction is doing by ordering it. The dates of appearances, their exact, textual content, probably had to be agreed. As the Ministry had a problem with the article, or the faction, the Pesti boys were obliged to correct all the mistakes they made within two days. And according to this, you can categorize what you've done in this composition. The Prime Minister's Office also had to make a statement not too long ago in order to clarify which orders and ad orders it published. [[14.40]] In this connection, I would like to mention that everyone should be able to pay attention to the media: TV2 received 232 million forints, Hír TV 3 million forints, Echo TV 386 thousand, PestiStudents 18,8 million forints or VS.hu 6.8 million forints. Well, so much for sportsmanship, Minister Lazarus. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-04-280	Thank you, Congressman. Magyar Zoltán Jobbikós, Member of the Hungarian Parliament also applied for a post-the-meeting speech on the Ángyán reports - 3, titled. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-04-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! They must have gotten used to me reporting here week after week on the most learned findings of the Ángyán reports. I have now prepared a few specifics, which show that the government's policy is not in a thank-you way with what has already been promised or even what is being communicated to this day. We have heard here many times between the walls of this House and in various forums, that you, the Fidesz-KDNP government, are helping locally living family farmers with both property policy and support policy. Well, the only problem with this communication trick and this constantly jazzed little panel is that it's not true. The facts support the exact opposite. Consider some examples. Let us say, let us look at how the biggest agricultural interests have developed their support. Here, the latest figures are fully available from 2014, the year 2015 has only been processed in part, but it is already clear from this, let's say, compared to 2011, which was the year of the second Orbán government, which was fully defined by him, he also laid down the conditions for the deployment of the tender resources to a significant extent. For example, Sándor Csányi's interest - here I would like to highlight the Bonafarm group - raised his agricultural subsidies from HUF 3969 million to HUF 6000 million. That's a 50 percent increase. But a similar increase, perhaps even greater, can be observed in the interests of Zsolt Nyerges, Lajos Simicska, the Mezort group. Tamás Leisztinger also killed, although he is a left-wing entrepreneur, but he was able to increase his agricultural support by 41.5 percent, as was the group of László Bódi or István Mádl, but it is interesting to mention, for example, the GSD group, which is known to have a foreign background, which was able to increase its agricultural support by 55 percent. If we take these seven biggest interests, this means that they were able to increase their subsidies by around 50 percent under the Fidesz-KDNP government, and as I mentioned, this is only the seven largest interests. It is clear that, unlike communication, in reality, the greats are the ones who are at the mercy of your government. You can imagine that if you can siphon so many billion forints from the common register, the big ones from the common hat, then obviously that will be less for the family farms that have said a lot in communication. But not only has their support increased, but what is even more striking and perhaps even more contrary to the government's promises is that they have been able to increase the territories themselves. In part, this also results in an increase in their support. The Bonafarm group, which I mentioned, has turned 16 500 hectares into 28 300 hectares under your administration. That's a 71 percent increase. Lajos Simicska's interests also increased - obviously the pre-war period before the battle broke out among his college roommates - from 14,000 hectares to 25,000 hectares, 72 percent. But it is also worth bringing here the example of Tamás Leisztinger, which has increased from 11 thousand hectares to 23 thousand, and this interest group has been able to increase 96.5 percent at the expense of local family farmers. Overall, in terms of seven interests, this is a 78.8 percent increase in holdings. Where is this to support the little ones? - I'm asking you. To a large extent, they were able to increase their holdings from public areas. I think these few figures also show that the opposite is indeed taking place in the Hungarian countryside, as they are constantly communicating. This is what Jobbik is trying to draw attention to every week, because today in Hungary, thanks to God, I don't have to prove to anyone that the South American model is not the way to go. It is not right for a narrow elite to concentrate the resources of the countryside, the remaining natural resources, but for the XXI. If we really built on a colourful Hungarian countryside, the local family farmers would be the backbone of the Hungarian countryside. However, this requires a radical turnaround in the field of politics to deliver both resources and land to these families. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-282	Thank you very much, Congressman. Gergely Farkas, a better representative, applied for a post-meeting speech:, Let the opinion of the students also be expressed in the National Assembly. - Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. - Hear your voice. The results of your campaign. It's called the 2nd. You have the floor, Congressman, in five minutes.
u2016-04-04-283	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Started by Jobbik's Youth Department, let's hear your voice! We would like to involve young people in the debates on education that is currently under way with your opinion in the National Assembly. Luckily, we have young people's opinions. In the framework of the second such speech, I would like to share another set of speeches and bouquets with those present and with the decision-makers. This is how Tom sees the situation with regard to the educational situation. In addition to reducing the curriculum, it would be important to change the curriculum itself, instead of lexical knowledge, to focus on skills and language learning. I find it a serious problem that most of the students do not know the world of money and the basic financial concepts. This is what this comment says: "I would like to reduce the amount of teaching material in particular, but I would like to increase quality, because there are often problems with it too. Because less is more! This is what I can say in the name of any Hungarian high school student. This is confirmed by the majority of contributions, which are at the heart of the issue. The experiences of David's high school student are as follows: "My teachers also tell me that they are teaching me what they used to learn in college at universities. They expect too much of us. A 16-year-old kid gets home about 4:00 or 5:00 p.m., and he doesn't have time to study, he's so tired. It would be enough for 5-6 hours a day, and there would also be time to study at home, perhaps for hobbies as well.In the same way, Imre, who wrote, "They expect us to be in school for 7-8-9 hours. Then let's come home and give him another three or four hours of study, which is sometimes not enough, for example, during graduation. That's 10 hours a day in the lower voice. Are we surprised at the nihilist lives of young people? "He asks the question," he said. Károly shared his personal experiences with us below: The 7th class ends at 14:20, but the 14:35 bus was the last afternoon, after which there was only a flight at 6:00 p.m. If I missed this bus, I could have waited hours, and we would have gone back to school during that time, but we were expelled from school around 5:00. We couldn't go to the bus station, 'cause the gypsies out there are picking on everybody, robbing us. We wrote a petition to the Volan, or asked the schoolmasters to help us, but no one helped us. About. 100 students were involved in this case. No one cared when we got home, how to learn the material by the next day, whether there would be time for anything else after a quick dinner and between a math lesson. The textbooks are inadequate, the curriculum is incomplete in them. * Béla wrote: "I finish every day at 4:15 p.m., and then there is a study room in the dorm until 7:00 p.m. I don't have any free time, I'm at school from 7:00 a.m. to 3:15 p.m. on Fridays, I have 40 hours a week. Sometimes the curriculum isn't built on each other. For example, in ninth grade students have to learn mechanics by learning the mathematical formulas that belong to them only at the end of the year. The manyth editions of textbooks contain the same errors. It would be good if basic and necessary financial concepts were taught in high school. ▪Another serious problem is highlighted by one high school student, against which Jobbik has repeatedly called for immediate, decisive actions. I experience, says Zsolt, that teachers often cover up abuse in schools and do not take notes, do not apply house rules in certain cases, probably for the purpose of keeping statistics clean. In my school all you have to do is look in the toilet: the doors are broken, the urinals are broken, water cannot be released from the tap, because who knows what quality water would come out of it. [[14.50]] The brick and plaster crack, there's a classroom where, for example, you can't open the window because it's nailed down because it's in such a bad condition. In the experience of this problem, Ferenc also writes, and I quote: "The hygiene conditions could be improved, there is not enough dressing room for the lessons, because because there are five gymnastics classes a week, so several classes are blocked and there is not enough room for them. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There have been a lot of comments, and I will continue to do so, but as a closing point, let me have a very instructive and I think it is a legitimate observation that we have received from one of the students, which I think that the pro-government representatives should sit back on the school bench for at least a week for 8-9 hours a day, and then see what needs to be changed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-284	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-04-04-285	Mr President, Dear House, Hungary is undoubtedly most affected by the amazing effects of the demographic disaster and emigration, which are slowly appearing in all segments of the economy. The question is, sooner or later. So first, social security will break, or the pension system itself, the future of which is subject to lengthy professional disputes, but it is still not possible to predict how long it can withstand the unilateral burden it is facing. Therefore, it would be extremely necessary to boost the economy from its own resources, to slow emigration, to allow children to come into the world, and to do so by means of a home-building program, perhaps the easiest way to start. This is why it is painful that, for two years or so, civil society initiatives have been regularly held within Parliament in connection with home creation and housing constructions, and every time the civil invitation party has sent its invitation to the pro-government colleagues, who, except for the last occasion, have not once respected this very important event with their presence. We are pleased with the government's shift, because perhaps the extension of the CSOK, even though it is a disproportionate extension, is a sign that they are beginning to understand what this problem is really about, we can see that tomorrow we can finally have this pan-European consultation within the walls of Parliament, and finally this very important topic, but we are still seeing amazing disproportionateities along the extension of the CSOK. It is true not only of NOK, CSOK and all similar ideas, but in fact of all government considerations, that Hungarian people are forced to obtain new buildings and new apartments in any case, while it can be seen that this is not the typical Hungarian average and this is not the typical Hungarian life situation, in an excellent way, from the data on average payments according to the KSH. After all, about 90 percent of the people who need a CSOK, the majority of those who are interested in it, are simply not interested in new real estate, would be curious more precisely, but do not have a reserve, have no resources. The purchase of second-hand apartments, expansion and renovation is much more vital. Therefore, if the Government of Hungary wanted to give a capital injection through the construction sector, it would have been possible to see that although the money invested in the construction sector has a huge multiplier effect on the economy, it has also been demonstrated that it is not the stadium and not the road, but in the case of residential and commercial real estates that it is the most extensive, and that the CSOK could have been designed accordingly, since if it were to be extended to the housing used, only these two would drag the other industries with it during the construction of the openings and heating upgrades, and accordingly, the impact of the multiplier could have been extended because the rate of the work is perhaps even higher than the cost of the material covered here than the new builder. But through the coated material, the historic Hungarian construction industry, the restarting of its supplier network, and the restarting of its production capacity would have measurable effects, because if we play with the idea that Hungarian families will use the support for all the properties with a CSOK-capable capacity, all these homes will have a desired child, we will also see that a total of 6, i.e. six thousand real estates will be suitable for all of this by the end of 2017. It can be seen, therefore, that an explosive increase in the number of living births is not to be expected from here, and that is not to be expected. At the same time, if a public-based housing programme were to be launched in accordance with Jobbik's programme, we can see that this could be started from a fraction of the estimated costs of moving to the Castle. We are thinking of a national rescue project that could bring tens of thousands of Hungarian children in the long term in Hungary at a level such that they could keep Hungarian families at home, slow down emigration, the children they want could come to the world, and we could finally get closer to the desired level compared to 41-42 thousand new-built properties on an annual basis - after six years of government at 7500-8000 - in the Fidesz-KDNP era. Similarly, in terms of renovations, if we were to look at the many conditions of an average panel, there would certainly be a place to touch it, and we can say that such a plan for saving the nation - because the project is a foreign word and not a nice one - would be essential in order to do so, because if we cannot slow down the rate of population loss at some level and then turn the whole process into growth, if they allow aliens to be introduced into Hungary, then it will not be important that they will be out of government in 50-60 years. That's why this national rescue plan is being implemented. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We don't just recommend it to the government, but we demand it. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-286	Thank you very much. Mr Ádám Mirkóczki, notary, has also applied for a speech after the agenda. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame:, irreplaceable loss in Hungarian-Polish relations. In memoriam with Artur Górski.
u2016-04-04-287	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the days we received the sad and shocking news that Artur Górski, a Polish politician who died only 46 years of his life after a serious illness, until his death, is a representative of the Sejm, a great friend of Hungary, whose absence - I put it mildly - is irreplaceable in Hungarian-Polish relations. I have had the pleasure of knowing him personally and seeing his work from time to time, so I consider his political activities worthy of remembering him here in the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. Artur Górski was born in Warsaw in 1970 and graduated from the Stefan Wyszyński Catholic University of Politology and Social Sciences in 1994 and has already completed his PhD in 1998. Between 1995-97 he was a domestic correspondent at the Polish state news agency, and from 1998 he was the editor-in-chief of the Catholic newspaper Dziennik. Since 1999, he has served in the Government led by the Solidarity Election Association as an advisor to, among other things, the members of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister. For a long time, he was president of the Conservative Club, which brings together many forms of Polish right-wing intellectuals. In 2002 he joined the Law and Justice led by the Kaczynski brothers, in which he had already entered my seymour in 2005 at the next election. Until the death of the Polish Parliament, he was represented for four cycles without interruptions. Artur Górski was one of the biggest advocates of the Hungarian cause in contemporary Polish politics. He has visited Hungary countless times, in which he has never concealed his sympathy for our country, our nation, and in a political sense for the national side. In January 2012, when the European Commission organised a demonstration in front of its representative in Warsaw, it gave the title "Get your hands off Hungary." In November of the same year, at his invitation and in his organization, the Carpathian ensemble in Warsaw, the Polish capital, could perform a highly successful concert. During his speeches in Parliament, he was in favour of Hungary, and during the opposition years he constantly whipped the Civil Platform for more decisive action in the European Union in favour of Hungarians. In its political values, conservationism, uncompromising anti-communism and Catholic tradition were the main guidelines. The opinions of the European Union and liberal democracy contributed greatly to the fact that PiS was able to win the election again in 2015 and that Poland was once again a Christian-conservative government. [[15.00]] ArturGórski has unfortunately been suffering from severe leukemia for years, and in 2013 he publicly announced that he had to start chemotherapy treatments, for which he needed a lot of blood. I quote his Facebook post then: Your blood is my life. After that, hundreds of people gave him blood, and his illness was carried long and heroic, and last fall he wrote that if everything went well, he would succeed in healing. Unfortunately, his condition became worse, and two weeks ago he could not come to Budapest on the day of Hungarian-Polish friendship in Budapest, and he died early on April 1, 2016, a few days ago at the age of 46. Jobbik does not forget its work, it does not forget the spirituality that it has expressed from the beginning of its political activity against Hungary, in favour of Hungarian-Polish relations, and we encourage all Hungarian representatives to take an example of the work of Artur Górski because of the relations and unbroken development of the two nations, and to set it as an example, and to strive for these two nations to stand side by side with another, at least a thousand years, in a similar cooperation with unbroken camaraderie. God bless the Polish people, the Hungarian people, and God rest Artur Górski! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-288	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Benedek, on behalf of the LMP, also spoke after the agenda, with a title of 151 years after the death of Semmelweis. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-04-04-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, During the weekend, I received a small booklet entitled "The Hungarian Reforms Work," in which rural development, agriculture, education policy, and health care are not mentioned, because reforms do not work in all aspects. I would like to talk about such a topic, and this is the issue of maternal death after birth. It is sad to note that Hungarian reforms are not merely not working, but that as long as we were at the same level as English, the United Kingdom, ten years ago, with regard to statistical indicators, and they have managed to achieve significant results, the situation in Hungary has deteriorated. It's very common now that people die not because of the illness they've been hospitalized with, but because of infections they're collecting at the hospital. The collection of statistical data in the system for reporting hospital infections is completely wrong, despite the modern IT system maintained by Semmelweis University of Medicine, it deals with very little real data, and it is very, very difficult to keep track of these infections. My fourth child, Barnabas, was hospitalized for such an infection, and was infected with Klebsiella, in which several babies died in Miskolc, which atlatszo.hu recently sued the SAO's report, which examined the results. The SAO's report found that everything was going on with the greatest professionalism, everything was fine at the hospital, everything was out of control, which I do not want to question. I don't want anyone to think I'm responsible for doctors who have worked on what shifts there, or those nurses who earn between 70 and 80,000 forints who have to provide twice as many babies as they would be healthy. It's not like that. I consider the system to be faulty, since it is essentially due to the Hungarian system, the Hungarian political culture, that it does not have the ability to face the problems. The English have begun the process of reporting each case and trying to take action to prevent it. What do Hungarians do? They begin to blame parents for coming out of a large group of hazard factors where they smoked, possibly dirty in the apartment, and so on. The Hungarian system and the SAO's report do not seek how to make this better, how to pay more attention to it because it happened in Borsod, and how we need to monitor this system even more, but to establish the perfection of this whole system. I don't blame a doctor, I don't blame a nurse, but I blame the health system in its entirety, which doesn't seek to draw attention to the possibilities that, let's say, can only be prevented with hand hygiene improvements, a few disinfectants, with a greater attention after Semmelweis' death. And obviously the lack of hand-washing, which arises as a problem in such cases, is a problem that can otherwise be trained, and that is why it is a problem that multi-resistant pathogens, which are also in hospitals in Western Europe, are not a Hungarian speciality, and there is also such a case abroad, that can be combated and what can be done. What we see is that while one country is facing this problem, it is confronted with a mistake, Hungary is trying to cover this up and try to deny this problem. At the moment, Hungary has a much worse indicator than Kazakhstan, and for 100,000 births, 15 lost mothers can be booked by the Hungarian health care system, who are the majority of young mothers who did not plan life that way, and with a child birth, they did not think that they would never raise their children; young families, where a larger brother might lose a parent because the health institution does not do everything to make a difference. Of all the former socialist countries, we are alone in this region, who, not only have failed to improve their indicators, but have damaged their indicators, and accordingly have not been able to deliver results. For Poles there are 3 deaths of this kind for 100,000 births, for Slovaks 6 that can still produce a result in Germany, while for Hungarians there are more than 15 such deaths, and we are not trying to take any action at all and we are not trying to do anything. During the weekend, Mária Sándor, the nurse in black, expressed her tiredness that she had grown tired of the fight she had been fighting and had no prospects for the last time, and I believe that this topic is exactly the visionary science that most people in health care can see that there is no ambition, no government intention to make meaningful progress. There is no intention of advocacy representation and the government's intention, and if this does not change, these indicators, these reforms will deteriorate even further. In this regard, I would ask the government for help and progress. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the next announced speaker's agenda, Mr President Novák, who is the 50 shades of corruption - to which the Prime Minister of Orange Baron did not dare to reply. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-04-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I mean, fellow Members of the opposition, perhaps I should say so. We do not know in which offshore paradise Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has performed his permanent public tasks, but we have seen that he has not answered the sensitive questions again, the most important ones, so that I should not be rude, let me face my fellow Members, since no pro-government party remained essentially in the benches of Fidesz. [[He continued his speech by turning to fellow Members of Jobbikos. Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: There is one.]] Well, first of all, let me respond to the wave of protest we heard from MSZP today about our 50 anti-corruption issues. However, Gergely Bárándy seems to have slept through the session of Parliament, because in fact not only Jobbik but also two other opposition groups and even the socialists could ask György Matolcsy. The question is, therefore, why does the MSZP suffer from the mention of corruption, what is one of Hungary's biggest problems, political crime. This is basically a rhetorical question, because we know that none of MSZP corrupt politicians have been accounted for by Fidesz in the last six years to use their vocabulary. The fifty shades of corruption are not only orange, but also unfortunately red, as demonstrated by the exfidesz Zsolt Horváth and the secret foreign bank accounts of the ex-MSZP Gábor Simon. Well, I think we have to face the fact that the Prime Minister does not want to change the current situation of corruption, political crime, even though Jobbik has a comprehensive package of programmes, and we ourselves have developed a comprehensive package of programmes to combat political crime. Allow me, however, to revive 12 of these, a dozen of our programme packages, since we have already succeeded in the most common points of the prohibition of job accumulation in politics, but a number of loopholes have been reopened, so unfortunately this is still the case. On the other hand, we hold on to this success, this semi-savory success, and we announce our programme point on the abolition of immunity, and we must also face the fact that there will be no accountability until the encryptions that are contrary to the public interest are removed. So we're gonna have to uncover the rug-slapped mugs, the encrypted mugs, so we're gonna need to review the encryption practices we've been working on. [[15.10]] They will then also have to change the practice that they may now lapse. By the time it turns out, there are often delays in various cases of political crime, and therefore, economic crimes committed by politicians should not lapse - that is Jobbik's position. These are not personal, they are programme points that will guarantee that we will be different from the parties that have been before, even after Jobbik's entry into the government, and these points can be a guarantee that there will be a clean public life in Hungary. In addition, it would be justified to introduce regular propertyisation and wealth-enhancing investigations for all politicians, not only for Members of Parliament, Member of the Government, State Secretary, as well as for the compulsory declaration of dual citizenship, because if there is much to be said about from school education and language knowledge in the way on the National Assembly's website, then I think that citizenship should also be such a data of public interest. Just think, if Gábor Simon had been found out earlier that he had another nationality in an African banana republic, it would have been clear that this politician had something to hide. It is therefore also a means of curbing political crime. In addition, I think it is necessary to face the lack of accountability of Communist leaders, the banning of communist leaders, as they can still sit in the benches of the MSZP, even former communist leaders. This needs to be changed and an institution for the return of politicians should be created. Double punishment for politicians, to create the possibility of total confiscation, and to say one thirteenth, to make this programme a most unfortunate package for politician criminals, although this will not only affect politician criminals: the institution of wage imprisonment or the establishment of self-sustaining prisons has to change the current wellness conditions. Dear Parliament, Finally, in closing, I would like to remind you that today is the 4th of April, the day of the occupation of Hungary, in 1945, the invading Soviet troops here also put up the occupation monuments in a shadowy manner to the National Assembly, supposedly with forbidden symbols of authoritarianism, which have been tolerated by all governments so far. I think that is why we have a lot of work to do, and perhaps I have already presented my fellow Member, István Szávay, who will remember this shameful anniversary longer. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-292	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Mr Szávay, I would like to say that both Mr Z. Kárpát's speech after Daniel's agenda and Mr President Novák's statement after the agenda indicated that he wished to respond in writing to what was said. I now give the floor to Mr. István Szávay Jobbikós, who will sing about April 4th. It's an address.
u2016-04-04-293	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's sing about April 4th. - this song was to celebrate for decades the Red Army, which, in bloody battles, brought to our nation immeasurable suffering, destruction and death, occupied the last settlement of that time Hungary, Nemesbearves, by April 1945. Even the date was a lie, because there were fighting in the territory of Hungary even on 11-12 April, but Stalin defined 4 April as the deadline for Hungary's Soviet liberation, so this was to be celebrated for decades. Of course, the communist governors who served Moscow in principle were not disturbed by this, so on April 4th the heroic name of our liberator was glorified by generations, while squares, streets, schools, public institutions were named after this date, and children had to thank those liberators who, following barbaric traditions, raped their mothers, grandmothers and sisters to satisfy their animalistic desires. They had to pour their base actions into glorious epics that they knew that they had taken their father, their grandfather, that they had forced him to be a serious málenki robot, and that he was exiled to the farthest points of the Soviet Union, from which most people never returned. I wish we could say today that these times, thank God, are over, but we know exactly that is not true. To this day, our capital and nation may be more sacral, in the name of our perhaps most sacred idea, the monumental Soviet liberation monument in Budapest's Liberty Square may be cheesy. Even though we demand and demand that Jobbik carry this monument to the statue park and replace it for many years, Fidesz refuses to do so for some reason. Today, too, the country is full of Liberation and April 4th streets and the Red Army roads, so we have failed to count on the idea of an economic, moral and spiritual decline that is repressive, eviscerating our nation, and of communism that still lives and destroys us. We still don't know who snitched who, who did it, who the victim was, because the agent files were classified until 2060. There we are, my honourable pro-government Members, if they were here, while the former Communist successor party, the MSZP, advocates the disclosure of the agent files, while you, for some reason, vote in favour of further encryption. Dear Parliament, The former Red Interior Minister, Béla Biszku, who lacked bloody and brutal Kadár reprisals, could leave the ranks of the living last week without receiving compensation, since he enjoyed the luxury pension of his executioner and lived almost unscathed for the remaining decades after 1989. The blood prosecutor asking for a death sentence for Péter Mansfeld, who is only 18 years old, and György Mátsik, in his elegant apartment in Buda, still enjoys the rest of his life peacefully and unpunished. So communism lives with us. Although I am proud that myself and Jobbik could have contributed to the disappearance of the communist police killer Endre Ságvári from the name of one of the patina high schools in Szeged, it is still incomprehensible to us what he should do in the Red Prisons as Minister of Interior, in the name of tens and hundreds of thousands of torturers, torturers and mass murderers László Rajk, who created the ÁVH, in the name of a College of the University of Budapest. Just as I can't accept that some memory politicians still want to link the clean revolution of the Pest boys and Gergely Pongrátz to the real change of events with the best benevolent Imre Nagy, who, in his whole life, is a communist, who, among other things, has driven hundreds of thousands of decent farmers into hunger, misery and drove many to suicide. Dear Parliament, Although the 4th of April is no longer celebrated by anyone other than some deranged-minded civilians, the legacy of the communist dictatorship that has destroyed our country and our nation for some 45 years has not yet been fairly closed, in a manner worthy of the memory of the victims, so the former second line of the Communist Party can still play a prominent role in the first line of domestic public life. Last time we were shocked by the government, for example, that instead of Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, László Kovács was a former MSZMP KB member and later Minister of Foreign Affairs represented Hungary at the funeral of Guido Westerwelle, former German Foreign Minister on 2 April. Ladies and gentlemen, The changeling generation has not only proved unable to bring our country to economic, spiritual and cultural prosperity over the past 26 years, but also to finalize the communist past, and to rehabilitate the victims, as well as to name and punish sinners. However, we good-for-nothing are ready to clear up this damage in 2018 at the latest. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-04-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 11 April 2016. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 3:18 p.m.]]
