u2016-09-13-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 2nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that at the meeting, Attila Gelencsér and István Szávay will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-13-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At this time a year ago, the LMP talked about whether the next school year would be a watershed, deciding whether Fidesz-KDNP could and dare to correct its education policy. By January of this year, the Hungarian education system has drifted to the limit of inability to function. The courage of the educators indicated that the patience had run out, so far the direction could not be continued. At that time, we were confident that the government would listen to protesting teachers, students and parents, finally listen to professionals. Since then it has been proven that there will be no correction, they will continue to push the bike in the wrong direction. The changes promised at the beginning of the summer also showed that nothing of them was true, that the curriculum was not reduced, that vocational training had been reduced, that teachers had been denied a legitimate wage increase. According to the LMP, it has also proved that László Palkovics is unable to cope with his task. The secretary of state for education has not been able to establish order, because it has probably never happened before the start of the school year, so that a few days before the start of the school year it is not possible to know what and how they will teach. Until the last moment, no drafts of the framework and the curriculum proposals have been drawn up. Dear House, Unfortunately, this school year's start is about going to a dead end. It is now apparent from the beginning of the academic year that this education system will not be sustainable. We can be sure that there will be serious problems again in the course of the year, it will be nationalised as of January, and the schools will still not have enough money in the system. Just a few days ago, the answer to LMP's question revealed that despite the fact that KLIK's debt had been paid, the mammoth institution continued to roll a debt of almost half a billion. There are still problems with public textbooks, and despite the protests of the participants in education, the government continues to force the semi-experimental textbooks. These ever-increasing problems cannot be masked by mere reconciliations and misleading actions to the public for a long time. The LMP says that we need a 180-degree turnaround, we need to renew education in Hungary, and the basics of this are: we must not allow the school year to start in uncertainty again and again, if any novelty is introduced, a long preparatory period should be allowed. There's never been any uncertainty in education today, everything's very unstable, they say something today, they're doing the opposite tomorrow. Trust and predictability are currently lacking in education policy. The second is such a fact, we think that schools should be returned to the settlements. Not only should the operation not be nationalised, but the reservation must also be returned to the municipalities, who ask for it and are able to carry out the task, of course by providing adequate public resources. It is necessary to renew the curriculum, not to bomb schools with lousy state experimental textbooks, but to give students publications that are published in the 21st century at the end of a consensus process. They are prepared for the challenges of the century and are adapted to age characteristics, interests and needs. We need a curriculum that takes into account the differences between students, which gives us plenty of space and gives us room to develop skills. In this context, it is necessary to restore science subjects in vocational secondary schools - by their misleading name: in vocational schools - to ensure that all Hungarian students can acquire the same basic education. We need to stop this conscious debauchery that's going on right now. Dear Secretary of State, Yesterday, Minister János Lázár answered my immediate question on the scams of the start of the school year. At last, Minister, you have reached the point, and you have turned to the Ministry of Human Resources to do something about the constant deterioration of the performance of students, which is indicated by the PISA tests, unfortunately. János Lázár is right, yes, to introduce changes a few days before the start of the school year. The state reservation that strangles all local initiatives also undermines performance, the unteachable and unteachable, overcrowded curriculum also impairs the performance of students, and the elimination of the education of natural sciences also impairs the performance of students. It seems more and more of you are seeing it. But how much longer are they gonna push the bike into a dead end? [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-09-13-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2016-09-13-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that Mr President may have made a five-minute record in his speech before today's agenda, as he said the word uncertainty, but I think it refers to conditions within the faction rather than to the situation of Hungarian public education, because I see that conditions are becoming ever more stable. The fact that next year's budget, which you have not supported, of course, has added 104 billion forints to public education compared to this year's adopted, original budget, is an additional source of funding, a financing that can provide a solid basis for the system of public education itself, given the changes that we have decided after the negotiations of the round table for public education, and here in Parliament we have incorporated into law. A year ago, honourable Member, you started by saying what the LMP said. I do not want to recall them all, but for example, you also said that the Hungarian textbook system has completely collapsed and that the textbooks are not going to the schools. Last year, the textbooks got into the schools, and this year. The predictions that LMP said at the time that this system should be changed, because it is unsuitable for textbooks to be there by the start of the September school year, well-well, this too proved to be unreal. I feel that the opposition, in connection with public education, is rightly popular Back to the future, as a film, wants to shoot a film in advance into the past. They demand nothing more than to restore the state of bankruptcy of the whole system of public education before 2010 in 20 years. [[9.10]] The situation that clearly failed for everyone, because he could not give young people such knowledge, he could not prepare them, either for graduation or for the profession, to be the basis of a competitive growth in Hungary, because, as has been said several times yesterday, there are hundreds of thousands of vacant jobs in Hungary, so the way in which we can train young people for these posts was failed in the system of training at that time, and the results that we used to get used to in high schools in Hungary. That's why we said we needed a remodel, an in-depth remodel. Two thirds of those who go to school today will be doing work in 10-20 years that doesn't even exist now, that hasn't been invented, that hasn't been created. This is why continuous transformation is needed, which is why we need constantly more flexible vocational training, in particular, so that we can adapt as much as possible to these needs. Allow me to quote a sentence literally, Congressman, which concerns the burden of students, the curriculum. He's been accusing us of cutting down the curriculum, debauching the training, and you've also said that the students are overloaded. So he criticized two things about education policy over the last few years: on the one hand, the fact that students are overwhelmed, they have too much to learn, and on the other hand, that we have reduced the curriculum and that we are debauching the students. I'm asking the LMP to determine which direction it is, what it wants to criticize, what it wants to support, because at the same time it can be criticized if there is a drop in the curriculum, and even if there is a drop in the curriculum, it can't be. It should stand on one side, it should finally be decided; it is not possible to have a policy of opposition, or at least it may not succeed, that if the government says something, in one part, it must retain the quality of the curriculum, in the other part, to reduce it, then you are opposed to both. It would be nice for the LMP to have an established position in this. Regarding KLIK's debt: In 2010, the education system, the social and health system, which was in municipal reserve, had a debt of HUF 1200 billion; currently the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center has no over 30 days of outstanding debt. The items you've been talking about are in payment accounts where you've already submitted the invoice, but obviously it'll take a few days or a few weeks to make a reference. That's all the 30-day debt you've been talking about to KLIK, which is currently under way, but basically, KLIK's debt, its longer-term debts, has been terminated. In contrast to that HUF 1200 billion deficit, we created a system that no longer produces debts from week to week, month to month, year to year. As far as the maintenance and operation system is concerned: as I said, with a debt of HUF 1200 billion, the municipal administration system proved that it cannot guarantee young people a safe environment in which teachers can work in calm conditions, where their work can be recognised. That is why we decided to maintain the state and introduce the teaching career, so every September 1 is now also the date of the teacher's wage increase, and not only the time of the bell, and that is why we decided to operate the state, so that students could go to school in all Hungarian settlements under certain conditions with equal opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-13-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Security for the Hungarian people in a secure Europe! Zsolt Molnár, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also applied for a speech on the agenda titled "The Hungarian Socialist Party."
u2016-09-13-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have gathered what the Hungarian government has done and what has not done most for the safety of the Hungarian people and thus of the European people in the last year and a half. And, of course, we have gathered what government parties have said in the field of propaganda and how they are trying to divert attention from real social problems. Over the past year and a half, Fidesz governance has basically tried to make government's failures, especially in the areas of education and health, forget and use all propaganda to avoid real social problems. However, the Hungarian government has taken little real steps to deal with the expected wave of refugees, although I know that in early 2015 the Hungarian government was, by the way, quite rightly faced with the expected problems, but has done little of the party's political interests to address this. The Hungarian Socialist Party has already put professional proposals on the table of the Hungarian Government for the transfer of dedicated additional resources, so that those who deal with border protection, who deal with the refugee issue in substance, and do not use billions for government prestige investments. A reasonable amendment to the Criminal Code has also been put on the agenda. Here, for the sake of fairness, it must be said that the Ministry of Interior was finally a partner in this, but the governing parties regularly voted against this in various committees and did not even accept the series of articles, even though there was a great need to amend the criminal code in the field of human trafficking and anti-terrorist preparation. Independent border police training: even if this was not the same as Jobbik's proposal, which would have meant the creation of an independent border guard, but in any case the increase and professional recognition of this profession within the police force, the development of the police's staff, which was said not so long ago, this spring too, is unnecessary, but it has now become justified in the context of the Turkish situation. The necessary procurements for border protection were all on the table, Fidesz waited months, and only as a result of the emergency, forced them to be supported or incorporated by the Ministry of Interior in its single proposal. What did the government do on the other hand? Poster campaign and media campaign, selective media briefings, national consultation, and a completely unnecessary and distracting referendum. These obviously serve the party policy goals of Fidesz, and in the far water of the hate campaign, confrontative policy with the European Member States has led Hungary to have no international authority, not to regard us as cooperating partners in Europe. What awaits our country as a result of the Turkish-EU agreement and the domestic political situation in Turkey? Another serious hundreds of thousands may arrive at the Hungarian border in the coming weeks and months. It's time for action. We need to be prepared so that what happened a long time ago cannot happen. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party will propose measures to the Parliament in a proposal for a resolution, including the establishment of a separate border police directorate, which, I repeat once again, would not be the establishment of an independent border police system, but of a separate organisation within the police. The acquisition of devices that keep pace with technical progress, since a wire fence alone is not enough for anything. The organisation of border protection with other EU countries to protect the common Schengen borders not only through the money of Hungarian taxpayers, but also by involving other EU countries, including Germany. [[9.20]] Deportation orders cannot be enforced. Preparation of the alien police and health care system. These are all burning problems that we will propose. Instead of a hate campaign, we need correct information on both terrorism and the refugee crisis in Hungarian society. This is not a poster campaign or a national consultation, but a meaningful dialogue. It is necessary to give up the dual speech on the European Union, as the European Union needs reforms in its present form, but the European Union is not the problem, but it can provide a meaningful response to these great challenges, a strong Europe, a reformed and structurally transformed Europe will be able to provide a solution. Unfortunately, according to the ruling parties, the European Union is the problem; we believe that a reformed, reformed Europe will be the solution. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-13-6	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will answer.
u2016-09-13-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that it is now clear to everyone who considers Hungary's interests first, that the referendum on 2 October has one stake, namely to protect the country. Congressman, this is not a party policy issue, it is not a question of the left or the right, it is not a question of Fidesz, MSZP or Jobbik, it is a national matter, a national matter that concerns all citizens of Hungary. I am already asking you, honourable Member, if the safety of Hungary is important to you, if you care about the safety of Europe, then on 2 October I ask you whether you want the European Union to require the compulsory resettlement of non-Hungarian citizens into Hungary, without the consent of the Parliament, to say no. Ask your supporters, their members, to participate in the referendum on 2 October and to say no to this question. After all, it is clear and clear that Hungary is the only country in Europe - and we can be proud of that - where Hungarian people can express their views on this very important issue by referendum. Otherwise, the aim of this referendum, in addition to defending the country, is to change the decisions taken by the European Commission in Brussels. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He did not make decisions, but made suggestions.]] Eight decisions have been made in this regard. The most serious decisions that violate the interests of Hungary... - if Mr Zoltán Gőgös listens to us, he will honour us and himself - so the aim of this referendum is to change the Commission's decisions. Among these, I would like to highlight the allocation mechanism without a ceiling, family reunification and the punishment of countries that do not accept migrants. Honourable Congressman, So it's time. And I call your attention to the fact that you do not make the mistake that you made on 5 December 2004 when you were voted against the Hungarian nation and called on your supporters to say no to dual citizenship, for which Attila Mesterházy had to apologize to the Hungarian nation in 2012. So that this situation does not happen now, support this referendum and say no. As regards the other issues raised by you, I believe that Hungary is becoming more and more prestigious. This is what we see in European forums. At the Home Affairs Council, I find that more and more colleagues say that the Hungarian way is right, that the Hungarian way must be followed, that the Schengen borders must be protected, and that Brussels' failed immigration policy must be changed, which unfortunately has one goal in its focus today: the call and distribution of immigrants, instead of protecting them, and that is required of all EU Member States, including Greece. Because what we are experiencing today is that the European Union is lenient to Greece, and Greece is, I say, not obliged to defend its borders, which is, I say, the Schengen border of the European Union. I would also like to stress that we adopted the laws, the 13 laws that allowed us to build legal protection in addition to physical protection, on 4 September almost a year ago, to present the Hungarian Government. We have amended the Criminal Code, the Law on Defence, and many other laws that have enabled us to establish a law on criminal proceedings, to create a legal environment that will allow applications that are not justified to be dealt with quickly by the Hungarian authorities, of course, in compliance with EU legislation. We have created physical protection, the fence, the lively protection that has enabled the defence to contribute to the protection of borders, and we have created legal protection. This triple protection worked on the Serbian border and worked on the Croatian border. While more than 390 thousand people arrived by September 2015, their numbers have decreased significantly since then. But the danger has not passed, we continue to provide the resources needed to protect Hungary's borders, as 1 million people are on the move in Libya, 3 million migrants are waiting in Turkey, the Greek border is not working, and migrants are moving from Turkey to Bulgaria, Serbia. So there's a lot of work to be done. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] As far as the border guard is concerned, honourable Member, during your administration, the independent border guard ceased on 21 December 2007. [[The president's ringing again.]] That's what you suggested, please, so it's weird that you're looking for an independent border management board.
u2016-09-13-8	Thank you...
u2016-09-13-9	In the current organization, we can also ensure the conditions necessary to protect the Hungarian homeland, Hungary, the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-13-10	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Bence Rétvári, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party, State Secretary, asked to speak before the agenda on the religious aspects of immigration.
u2016-09-13-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Christians in the world are currently persecuted because of their religion in 81 countries; 200 million people's personal existence, lives are at risk because of their Christian faith, 400 million Christians are discriminated against because of their faith; between 2000-2010, about 1 million Catholics or Protestants had to give their lives for religious reasons, not self-indulgent; over the last ten years, over 24 hours, 270 Christian people have had to give their lives for their faith, and less than a quarter of Christians live in advanced democracy in the world. One hundred years ago in the Middle East, one in four people was Christian, today one in three is Christian. The others were either chased away or killed or forced to convert. These are aspects, these are facts about the Middle East and from North Africa, without which we cannot judge either the issue of modern immigration or the question of religious freedom worldwide. These are facts, experiences that show that it was probably the last century that most Christians had to give their lives for their faith when most people were murdered because of their Catholic or Protestant beliefs. If we want to judge the issue of modern immigration or new social problems in Europe, new problems and problems, if we want to get a full picture of them, then we need to take into account the religious problems of both the Middle East and the North African region and the religious dimension of the whole migration issue. After all, we, who have grown up here in a Western, European, North Atlantic democracy, under advanced rule of law, cannot be trained to see how different religious circumstances are from us to a few hundred or a few thousand kilometres south or southeast, how different they view Christians there. In the Middle East, Christianity is a symbol of the West, of the many times hated, but certainly despised and second-rate West. Therefore, the attacks on Christendom, Christians, churches, priests, believers in the Middle East are actually the signs of contempt for the West, Western Europe, or hostility to the West. The fact that hundreds of thousands of people had flown into Europe, and then millions of people from this region, is a sad consequence of what we experienced during the summer, when a priest was killed in his own church in France, and another was tried to knife him in his own parish, parish, after providing help to an immigrant, giving him a bath opportunity, food, but no longer wanted to give him cash, so the attacker pulled a dagger. [[9.30]] These phenomena are new phenomena only in Europe and Western Europe. Unfortunately, in the Middle East, there have been daily phenomena in recent decades. This was the reason why thousands of Christian communities of two thousand years had fallen victim to attacks. If we look at how many Christians lived in Iraq in 1947, we can see that 4.5 million, 20 years ago only 1.5 million, and now only 200,000. In many cases, these attacks on Christian communities in Iraq and Syria have destroyed thousands of years of communities. The value of the attackers is completely different from that of us Christians in terms of human dignity, cultural attitudes, economic life, respect for human life, social setting. In our Western European culture, it is unthinkable that a kind of respect should be given to a suicide bomber, while we look up to martyrs and even make them happy and holy in the church. This also shows a huge difference between the two cultures. At the same time, the failure of Western European society, perhaps also because it has ignored the religious dimension, is the integration policy it has taken so far. However, we cannot tolerate intolerance, we cannot accept the views that we Europeans should weaken, conceal, hide our own Christian identity. All those who come to Europe with the cross bothering them, the church troubles them, they have an intolerant attitude. We cannot accept this in Europe [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Our vision, our future here in Europe, can only be a strengthening of Christian identity, certainly not giving up on it.
u2016-09-13-12	Thank you.
u2016-09-13-13	No identity is not identity. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-13-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond.
u2016-09-13-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Before I respond to Mr Secretary of State, allow me to respond briefly to Zoltán Gőgös because he has just shouted that there is no Brussels decision on quotas. I'm sorry you could have been present at your own interrogation, but you're not listening to the answer. I would like to point out to you the words of Martin Schulz, who said earlier that, in the spirit of solidarity, there is a need for a compulsory quota, the distribution of immigrants among the Member States - a compulsory quota. He was referring to the decision. I am sorry that you did not take the trouble to find out what was behind the Brussels decisions when you were negotiating with Martin Schulz in Brussels last week - closed by parentheses. In his speech, the Secretary of State spoke about vulnerable Christian communities. I would like to respond to this and to address some of the contexts of the migration crisis. Indeed, Christian communities in the Middle East are one of the most vulnerable in the world. Hungary therefore acts by all means against the persecution of Christians and supports communities at risk in their existence. We must do everything we can to make sure that they are able to thrive in their homeland. To promote this goal and to coordinate humanitarian action, the government has established the Deputy State Secretary against Christian persecution. As far as the broader context is concerned, the government, when dealing with the migration crisis, seeks to enforce humane aspects. We must find a rational and moral solution to this crisis at the same time. The Cabinet therefore provides HUF 450 million to the members' organisations of the Charity Council, primarily to carry out cross-border tasks, and the government, joining the Catholic Bishop's Faculty, provides HUF 120 million for the education of children who are refugees in the Middle East. Along with the church initiative, this means that the annual educational costs of 740 Christian or other religious children belonging to a national minority can be guaranteed. In addition, the government has offered EUR 5 million to build a hospital in Syria. With the support of persecuted families, we can provide effective, targeted and exemplary help to those who really need it. With regard to the wider context and other aspects of the migration crisis, it is undisputed that the majority of immigrants arriving in Europe are victims. They are sacrifices to their governments, to smugglers, but especially to Brussels policy, which makes unfulfilled promises to them. At the same time, European people are also victims, above all because uncontrolled immigration carries serious security risks, which we cannot take on. We cannot expect Europeans to take on this security risk. It is clear that terrorists consciously take advantage of the lack of control and blend in with immigrants. These security risks are serious, which is why, among other things, we must reject the Brussels quota package, and that is why we are asking everyone to vote 'no' on 2 October. We believe that the plans in Brussels that are not real are inhumane to everyone. They are inhuman to European people and inhuman to immigrants. The principle of the government in dealing with the migration crisis, common sense dictates that we bring help there rather than trouble. Therefore, European countries must do everything in their power to ensure that the truly troubled are helped, including the Christian communities in distress. It would be good for Brussels policy to move in this direction at last. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-13-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda:, Is the strategic partnership worth so much? It's an address.
u2016-09-13-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the week, the news exploded that Jabil Circuit Magyarország Kft. wishes to give up more than 600 employees in its Tiszaújváros plant. The reason for the move was that it was able to produce production in Ukraine at even lower labour costs. The American company giant for electronics production established its largest European plant in Hungary and its third largest global plant here in Borsod County. It has been present in Hungary since 2000, and our governments have spent not much in the past 16 years to make this company giant settled here in Hungary and to have a good time in our little country. Only a few mementos of this: in the 2000s, social governments provided Jabil with job creation support of 100 million, and since 2010, the Orbán government has followed this practice. In 2011, hold on, they gave Jabil HUF 6 billion in job creation support, and between 2010-13, this company gained HUF 1.2 billion in EU funding. Despite this, despite the patronage, this company is now making a rough cut, and not for the first time, my fellow Members. In 2009, he reduced 900 people by referring to the economic and financial crisis at the time, and in November 2013 he replaced 700 people, and in scandalous circumstances, by handing out disciplinary measures so as not to have to pay the workers severance pay and gross overtime. In August 2013 our Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó concluded a strategic partnership with this company, hoping that Jabil will further develop its productive capacity in Hungary and, I quote: the government would like to create a deeper integration into the Hungarian economy. After all, this company contributes so much to GDP and Hungarian exports. Jabil's decision perfectly points to the failed economic policy of the last 26 years. In 2010, the Orbán government would have had the opportunity to choose a different economic policy by riding on the global trend, which meant the death of neoliberal economic policy in the 2008 crisis and building on the experiences of the past 26 years in Central and Eastern Europe and within Hungary, and implementing a paradigm shift. Viktor Orbán and his government would have had the opportunity to make a decision whether to be the last government of the system of the regime that has passed away or to be the beginning of something new. Unfortunately, he chose the former and spawned it with a kind of communication government. The focus of this was that economic policy in Hungary is the only goal of advertising a false competitiveness, which is to attract foreign capital to Hungary, which will settle things by the invisible hand of the market, and the state's only task is to make accommodation for the multinationals established here, to provide cheap, well-trained workers, flexible legal backgrounds, low taxes, preferably so that they can repatriate dividends from Hungary without having to pay taxes, interest or royalty. [[9.40]] All this has been guaranteed by Hungarian governments over the past 26 years. Orbán's mentality and the misrepresentation of the economy are not better reflected either: in 2014 he said at an Arab-Hungarian economic forum that Hungary's advantage is, compared to its quality, a surprisingly cheap labour force and the very flexible work. As a result, we can talk about declining productivity in Hungary, decreasing added value, decreasing wages, which reduced Hungary to a assembly plant and, in the long term, facing unfunded public finances, and therefore it is not the multinational companies that should be blamed, but the governments that invite these companies to Hungary under these conditions, and cannot protect Hungarian workers from multinational capital. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-13-18	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr László Szabó State Secretary will answer.
u2016-09-13-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I'm a little embarrassed because I don't want to qualify for your speech, but you've been talking a lot of nonsense lately. Hungary is following a completely new external economic strategy, has already taken a new path in 2010 and, by strengthening the results in 2014, by stabilising the Hungarian economy, it has entered a permanent growth path. In 2010, our problem was how to give people enough work, there was an unemployment rate of 11.8 percent, and now we have the problem, this is the good problem of finding enough skilled workers. So there's been a lot going on in the last six years, and I have to say, we can be proud of that. The fact that the Strategic Partnership Programme was launched in 2012 also confirmed itself with the help of numbers. If we're trying to paddle on facts, let me mention a few things. Currently, there are 69 strategic partners of the Hungarian government, which are also decisive foreign and domestic actors. The aims of these cooperations are to further develop the relationship, attract further investment, not only production, but also research and development and innovation, vocational training, dual training, creating new jobs, putting Hungarian suppliers in position, and all of this has produced very serious results. Only the proportion of Hungarian suppliers has increased 4 percent in the last two years, now 59 percent is the proportion of Hungarian suppliers in large multinational integrator companies, mostly with a 0-20 percent supplier ratio in a new country, so this is a very serious result. The fact that reinvestments account for two thirds of the total investment also shows that what the Hungarian government claims is valid, and companies that have already invested are willing to invest again. In the latest survey of the German-Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 80 percent of German companies want to invest again in Hungary. If this wasn't a valid economic policy, I don't know what it is. The strategic partners have more than HUF 10 000 billion in investment in Hungary, and almost 15,000 more have been employed here in Hungary than before, as from the date of the strategic agreements. According to our current discussions, 9,000 new jobs will be created in the near future. I have already mentioned that unemployment has gone to less than half, and in 26 years there have not been as many people working in Hungary as today. I would like to clarify one more thing: strategic agreements do not contain legal obligations for either party, they are voluntary from both sides, and what they serve is communication, understanding each other, serving each other in such a way that the Hungarian people are better off. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-13-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Imre Vas, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Is there a resettlement quota? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-13-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In June 2015, Ágnes Kunhalmi, president of the MSZP in Budapest held a press conference at the Fidesz Lendvai Street headquarters, and with a wire fence in his hand he stated that immigration is a pseudo-problem generated by the government parties. A year later, Gyula Molnár, the president of the MSZP, well-known from the Kopaszi dam case, said that there is no draft quota in the European Union, so the referendum is unnecessary. It is fortunate that we do not have to rely on the sense of reality of the socialists. Almost all fantasies are surpassed by quoted statements. According to the German Federal Statistical Office, about two million people arrived in Germany last year, which is an absolute record for immigration. The migration situation is very tense, but in Turkey alone 3 million immigrants are waiting to make their way to a better life. At the same time, I stress that migrant supply is inexhaustible and facing the biggest challenge in the history of the European Union. In addition to the protection of the Schengen external border, I believe that Hungary must do everything in its power to challenge and prevent all decisions and proposals on compulsory resettlement quotas in all existing forums by all means. In particular, I would like to draw the attention of the representatives of left-wing parties to the fact that specific decisions and proposals do exist for the introduction of a compulsory resettlement quota. He informed the members of the Judicial Committee about this and the status of the quota trial yesterday, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Whatever the left says, at least eight decisions on forced resettlement have been taken in Brussels. I'll mention three of those. The decision of the Justice and Home Affairs Council adopted on 22 September 2015 in spite of Hungary's vote against already provided for the distribution of 160,000 migrants, of which 120,000 immigrants should be allocated to the Member States on the basis of compulsory quotas. This is the decision against which the Government of Hungary, Poland, has turned to the Court of Justice of the European Union, against which we believe that the decision is contrary to EU law. On 4 May 2016, the Commission presented its migration package for the reform of the Common European Asylum System, focusing on the revision of the Dublin system. This Commission decision was already practically about the automatic distribution of immigrants without ceilings, and the Member States not participating in it would be fined EUR 250 000 per migrant by the European Commission 2016. On 13 July 2007 the European Commission decided to propose further simplifying the rules for family reunification, which is already subject to a great deal of abuse. This means that not only migrants and their immediate relatives should be accepted, but also their brothers. In addition, the proposal would extend the admission obligation to families created during migration, such as marriages during migration. So much for the socialist claim that there is no compulsory resettlement quota. I suggest we stick to the facts and the reality, even if it's not always exhilarating. In order to prevent this process, let us go to the referendum on 2 October and vote no. It is especially important for young people to vote, as they are the key to the future. Stop compulsory forced entry. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-13-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner will respond. [[9.50]]
u2016-09-13-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As has been said in your speech, the facts strongly contradict the left-wing and liberal claims that there is no compulsory resettlement quota. If we just think about the decision of 22 September last year and the action brought in relation to it, perhaps a court case will provide sufficient evidence that this is an existing and real problem, and indeed the case was brought on account of an obligation, since this interim measure could not be annulled without it. But the bigger problem is what we try to tackle and draw attention to through the referendum, and ask everyone for help to prevent the creation of permanent distribution quotas without a ceiling, with which, taking into account last year's data, more than 15,000 migrants would be automatically directed here every year, with the idea of family reunification that is increasingly understood and would in effect result in multiple inclusions than the reception of a person. As far as left-wing and liberal doubts are concerned, they are also not convinced by events in Western Europe, or, unfortunately, yesterday there was an attempt in Hungary to commit a migrant violence against a 12-year-old girl. I do not know if those decision makers who are sitting in the opposite benches and opposed to these government measures will understand, in similar cases, the importance of the proliferation of these cases being on their conscience. I wonder who they're gonna blame. The police, the government, when they have a strong role to play in creating the situation? The negligation of the referendum also means that there is a strong interest in preventing Hungary from forming a strong position on this issue, and we cannot draw Brussels' attention to the fact that people living here are opposed to the emergence of foreign cultures, hostile cultures, cultures that challenge the rights of those living here, as my fellow Member Rétvári mentioned in his speech. And that these are not just political debates: the Member also pointed out that the Commission's proposal, proposal and decision to discuss the various Council configurations in October-November, which will be discussed, all point in the direction of imposing disproportionate and discriminatory financial burdens not only on the obligation, but also on those Member States which refuse to meet them. Think of the EUR 6500 or EUR 10 000 that the EU accepts or grants as a financial burden in the event of the admission of a migrant or the handling of its case, whereas it would punish every year and per person all those who refuse to stand in line. And all this for what? What can the Union gain in return? What can Europe gain in return? What can Hungary gain in return? They could not give any reasonable reason why we should not comply with the rules of the Dublin system so far, why we are ignoring the protection of the Schengen area; let us think of the case of Greece. The hypocritical reference to demographic problems in Europe, the fact that the labour market situation can be solved in this way, is evidence of the fact that the statistics of the years have not succeeded in integrating these incomings, and even those of the second and third generation who have arrived with previous immigration waves. According to yesterday's data in Germany, 60 of the 50 largest employers have been employed in the past, 50 of which are employed by German post, so the German industry does not need these unskilled or even adult masses in this production culture. Of course, the solution to this is what Prime Minister mentioned in yesterday's speech, recognising that war and persecution do make humanitarian aid mandatory, but we need to help on the ground and not bring trouble here, because after that, we can't help not only them, but also ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-13-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, A joint general debate on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies in 2015 and the joint proposal for a resolution by the Judicial Committee on its adoption will follow. Report B/9278. by serial number, the proposal for a decision H/10540. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr László Székely, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the rapporteur of the report, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, we're listening.
u2016-09-13-25	Mr President, Dear House, Congresswoman and Lords! Dear Guests! The first sentence is thanks. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to supplement the report orally and present it to you again this year. When I was standing here last year, I said that since you elected me Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, ever since my office, about 130 people have been in a state of constant transformation. If you look at this report that I have presented to you, then the statistics and figures you see in this one confirm my statement from last year in everything. Last year, 8240 submissions were sent to the Bureau. This is, on the one hand, about 50 percent more than in the previous year, about which I am ambivalent. On the one hand, I can be glad that 8240 people felt that they could trust the office, so our social acceptance and prestige is quite high in my opinion on the basis of this number. On the other hand, we can be sad, because 8240 people felt that they would deal only with their case with the help of the ombudsman's staff and felt that they had suffered a violation of their fundamental rights in relation to some of their affairs by the various bodies of the State. And a parentheses sentence to interpret the number. Amnesty International has contributed to the growth of customer turnover in a hundred sizes by the mass, essentially identical, submissions of certain Member States' organisations, which came from the most diverse states in Europe and America. These were roughly equal applications and mostly aimed at the Ombudsman asking for the control of the Constitutional Court of domestic legislation on migrant and refugee matters. Well, it can be seen from the figures that while at the turn of 2014-15 there were only 886 cases from the previous year to the next, this figure was 3686 in 2015, which represents a significant backlog. I would like to add that this is not the result of the office's laziness or laziness, but you are certainly aware that from 1 January 2015 our office will fulfil a very important international commitment: the national prevention mechanism of the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Inhumane Treatment, which is called OPCAT, is the function of this. This means a whole department, the entire working hours of eight people all year round. In order to fully perform this monitoring activity, I note only in parentheses that there are 4 000 detention places in Hungary where my colleagues have to appear at random, they carry out undeclared control activities. This activity, these controls are extremely expensive, expensive, time-consuming, we have to provide an interpreter, accommodation costs, because sometimes such inspections take several days. These have therefore taken considerable resources away from our core activity, and these figures, the fact that we have had to move over 3,000 cases from the previous year, are largely the result. [[10.00]] Now, if you'll excuse me, there have been two circumstances that are very important to me and which give me great pleasure this year. In particular, we received a surplus of HUF 100 million from the budget in the 2017 budget, for which I thank you. The other positive is that after about 15 years of impossible state, the case of our headquarters in Nádor utca 22 seems to be settled: if everything is true, then from 2017 we no longer have to root for a zealous prayer to avoid falling on someone's head with a roof tile drawn by the wind. So these are significant positives, and thank you again. Returning to OPCAT, we visited 15 monitoring sites last year. My colleagues visited the asylum-guarded reception centre in Debrecen, the Therapeutic House, the Hope Ray Children's Home. They've probably noticed the strong social echo of our OPCAT activity. As a result of our inspection of the closed psychiatric department of the Merényi Gustáv Hospital in Budapest, renovations started in the hospital. There was also a significant echo of our visit to the prison in Kököl and the central hospital in the prison of juveniles. I think the reason for this increased interest may be that a normal person never meets a prison, never meets a closed class in a psychiatric institution, and now the Ombudsman's office is giving these messages to society, which may result in this increased interest. Another important area, which was also not our core activity originally, is the electronic register of announcements of public interest and the review of their investigation. 358 announcements of public interest came to us in the previous year, about 50 percent of which were thorough, 16 cases of maladministration were discovered, and 6 cases had to be found that the recipients had failed to comply with their obligation to investigate the notification of public interest. That's a pretty good ratio, I think, if we look at it. Traditional activity is the opinion of the draft legislation, in 257 cases we have been invited to do so. The truth is that it has been a problem for years that we have 24-48 hours of deadlines, which makes our opinion quite formal in the case of legislation of hundreds of paragraphs, but we also work in this area. If we look at the structure of all complaints, there were about 1,500 cases in which there were complaints relating to administrative, police or criminal proceedings, about 1,000 civil disputes - provided, of course, that it is not a matter for the courts, because then we have no jurisdiction - and there are 900 complaints of a social and health nature. My deputies' turnover: some 180 submissions were received on environmental issues, while about 200 cases related to the rights of nationalities were typical of the previous year. I think it's a good atmosphere of trust. 274 recommendations were made by the Bureau and I last year. In total, there were 36 cases where the recipient did not agree with the recommendation, but this number may even improve, because negotiations are still ongoing in 80 cases, which have been carried out from 2015 onwards. So, in my opinion, it's a four-fifth ratio that I don't think is wrong. My proposals before the Constitutional Court are under way: on the one hand, concerning the abolition of the four-year maximum time limit for prior detention, and on the other hand, a municipal decree, which is essentially around the regulation of the conditions for the taxi service in the given city, essentially renders the freedom of the undertaking impossible; so these are still ongoing. Furthermore, since the Ombudsman had the opportunity to do so, I first asked for a basic interpretation of the law on a particular matter. If I may and may, I would like to draw attention to this problem over the last year: the Ombudsman has no right to request the intervention of the Constitutional Court in the event of a failure to comply with the Constitution. I'm not going anywhere by asking for an annulment because there's nothing to be destroyed, but maladministration can also arise because there is no or incomplete legislation. All in all, I must tell you, allow me to share a subjective impression on this. In a recent hospital in the capital, there was a very large incident involving forced action and isolation against a pregnant woman under psychiatric treatment who was unable to communicate. They left him unsupervised, the birth started, the child's viable world came, but because of the mother's diaper, the child drowned, died. The investigation was carried out, not OPCAT, but a general investigation, the report was completed, and it caused quite a lot of dust for understandable reasons. Three days later, the director of the hospital called me and thanked me for the correctness, thoroughness of the report, for its versatility, which, I must say, felt very good to me. The other experience is the Christmas card you can read in the introductory part of the report. All in all, I have to say that if I truly consider myself ars poetic lawyer to the poor, then these are very important feedbacks that this attitude of role is good and correct. I look forward to your comments and, if necessary, your criticisms, these are also very important information in my work. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-13-26	I now give the floor to Mr. György Rubovszky, President of the Judicial Committee, rapporteur for the motion for a decision. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2016-09-13-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I salute the Commissioner and his deputies. I would like to inform the House that the report on the year 2015 was presented by the Commissioner in the early spring of 2016 and that the report included both of its deputy accounts. The committee listened to the report on 3 May, asked questions by my fellow Members present, and, to the miracle of miracles, it was decided that 10 of the 11 Members of Parliament present accepted the report and proposed to present the parliamentary decision. There was only one representative present who stayed during the vote. I would like to say that the discussion over the accounts and the accounts took quite a long time, read in the committee's minutes, it was summarized for exactly 20 pages, more precisely: the literal protocol was drawn up. In these circumstances, the parliamentary resolution proposal that we have tabled and which I maintain with unchanged content has been proposed and which states that the Parliament accepts the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2015. The number of this proposal for a decision was tabled on 3 May 10540. Our position remains unchanged: I ask this House to discuss the report and the decision and then to adopt the decision. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-13-28	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. I'll ask the government representative if he wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] No, later. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocates invited by the committee representing the nationalities, within a total time frame of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to the ethnic advocate Giricz Vera Ruszin, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translates it into Hungarian. [[10.10]]
u2016-09-13-29	Честованый пан предс Tel: + 32- (0) 2 544 21 00 Дякувуза можность выступити у пререддень сяткованя у резидец Dear House, Honourable Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners and their Companions! Thank you for the opportunity to speak, which will take place on the eve of the commemoration in the Korczak Hall of the ombudsman's office, an academic member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, one of the most outstanding personalities of our community. At its meeting on 19 April 2016, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary held the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 22. § 2 (2) discussed - as committee related to the debate - the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2015, B/9278. A report and a resolution have been drawn up on it. Part 4 of the text presentation deals with the protection of nationality rights. The Presidents of national minority self-governments could also comment on the written material as they were invited to the committee meeting with a right of consultation. Last year we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the domestic ombudsman system, which has since undergone a significant change. The law on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights narrowly settles the division of tasks. The Commissioner was given a wider mandate to monitor legal protection activities and to monitor each area. The Rules of Procedure are set out in Article 12. The presentation of the exercise of the delegated powers set out in Section 2 of this Article determines the structure of the accounts. The monitoring, evaluation and control of the enforcement of legislation ensuring the enforcement of the rights of nationalities was also a priority in the reporting period. Due to the complexity of the task, the programmes were implemented with the assistance of the members of the secretariat. The diagrams also show the increase in the number of secretarial programmes in 2015 compared to the previous period. It can also be said from personal experience that the Deputy Commissioner and his colleagues regularly participate in national professional forums, cultural events and foreign specialised programmes, and are in contact with all relevant participants in ethnic public life, as well as with partners responsible for legislation and justice. The statistical statements show that the Deputy Commissioner has come into contact with all Hungarian communities during his work, and the proportions reflect the demographic situation of nationalities. Progress has also been made on the publicity of the Ombudsman's work, as well as on informing national and international public opinion, which allowed society to have a more realistic view of the theoretical issues and practical implementation of cultural autonomy. The activity was supported by the presence of domestic and international media, and was also frequently published in the media in the motherland through media. The report addresses the follow-up to the achievement of the Roma objectives of the government's strategy for social inclusion. During the legislative process concerning the area, the Deputy Commissioner contacted the committees of the Parliament, in particular the committee of nationalities, with which he established a partnership. He has conducted several effective studies on Roma catch-up, and a good working relationship has also been established with Roma professional organisations specialized in the area. The Deputy Commissioner was present as an observer at the meetings of the Anti-Segregation Round Table and the Roma Coordination Council. He has been monitoring the work of the competent State Secretary of EMMI, in liaison with the Deputy State Secretarys-General, both at expert and management level. It is reassuring that there was no need to initiate formal action with the Commissioner on maladministration in relation to the protection of national minority rights, but that this was resolved through professional cooperation. It is a step forward that, in line with the amended text, from 1 January 2015, in line with the new division of labour, the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality has been able to work more autonomously in the area of nationality law, so that he has been able to make use of several times to the bodies concerned of calls for the removal of the threat situation, the initiation of the measure and the possibility of issuing a recommendation. The Ombudsman's role in the area of nationality rights is facilitated by an increasingly professional and high level of quality, taking into account the professional guidelines of the Deputy Commissioner in the preparation of individual complaints, resolutions, legislative opinions and comprehensive reports, either on grounds of nationality issues or indirectly related to the groups or fundamental rights concerned. There is also progress in the opinion of the legislation related to its tasks and of other drafts of government proposals, as the Deputy Commissioner has contributed in nearly 20 cases to the opinion of draft legislation concerning nationality law. With regard to the motion for a Constitutional Court, the motion for a revision of the municipal decree and the right to issue a legislative opinion, the Commissioner did not hand over his right to the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality, but it indicates good cooperation and professional foundation for the joint exercise of the publication in the area of nationality, which is supported by the second part of the report. The Deputy Commissioner did not exercise his/her tasks of proposing legislation on the rights of nationalities during the reporting period. It can be said that with its international activities, the deputy ombudsman made a significant contribution to the presentation of the values of the domestic institutional system relating to nationality rights, as 37% of its 169 programmes were international events, and participated in the work of the UN Human Rights Council through a national human rights institution accreditation of the status of A. Thank you for your attention. Дякуву за призур!
u2016-09-13-30	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir.
u2016-09-13-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Continuing to present the opinion of our committee, I would like to address the following points. Today, we look, among other things, at the legal institution of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality, as a protector of national minority rights, whose practical operation is effective in 2015 in order to ensure that national individual rights and community rights are respected. The single objective of the bodies and institutions involved in the life of nationality is to make the practical application of the possibilities in the field of the exercise of nationality rights as widely as possible to the public. The Deputy Commissioner in the report stated that the theoretical issues and practical implementation of cultural autonomy are neutral areas for the majority society, and we advocates also regret it. In order to remedy this problem, it is absolutely necessary to take measures in the future. On several agendas it has already been pointed out that the nationalities in Hungary are dissatisfied with their small opportunities to appear in the public media. This is reflected in the report made by the Deputy Commissioner. The potential of nationalities to be introduced in public media is limited, opening up to a majority society can be achieved by increasing opportunities for public media participation. A comprehensive examination of the public media service on national minority programmes, which could be completed this year, is also a task to be highlighted by the Deputy Commissioner in the report. [[10.20]] The problems affecting ethnic media, especially the outsourcing of the production of national minority programmes, the diversity and complexity of other reorganisations, taking into account the changing legislative environment, justified the launch of a comprehensive follow-up to the implementation of national minority rights in the media. In the framework of the follow-up study, the experience of the national minority media survey conducted in 2003 and 2004 should be compared with the current situation and the implementation of the obligations of the public media service provider on nationalities should be analysed in detail today. Our Commission welcomes the intention of the Deputy Commissioner to carry out the investigation in close cooperation with national minority advocates and experts from national minority self-governments. Our Commission has already on several occasions put on the agenda the issue of national minority programmes for the public media service, and we are therefore looking forward to working together in this direction, to the conclusion of the investigation and its findings. Despite having legal authority, the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality did not propose, directly and in his/her own power, amendments to the legislation concerning nationality rights. This task was carried out by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, in several cases in close cooperation and in consultation with the Deputy Commissioner. In most cases, the Committee included the reports of the Deputy Commissioner, identified shortcomings and constructive proposals in the legislative amendments it initiated. As regards individual cases falling within the competence of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality: there were nearly 200 cases, of a nationality nature. The broad spectrum and diversity of cases justify the complexity of the issue of nationality, the different problems of ethnic communities. Persons and families belonging to the Roma community objected to cases of discrimination related to nationality, while, in the case of other nationalities, maladministration related to national cultural and educational rights was affected in the majority. A submission was also received from the Deputy Commissioner concerning the operation, activities and non-conformity of cooperation between the local government and the local minority self-government. Most of the complaints were submitted from the areas of Budapest and Pest county. According to the report, the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality met the following key types of cases from the area of nationality rights: complaints relating to the co-decision powers of the national authorities, institutional maintenance tasks, support for the educational institution maintained by the transformed minority self-government, education segregation, separation regulation, municipal measures in segmented residential areas and other settlement-related matters. With regard to those recorded in the report, it is particularly important to emphasise that in the field of minority law, self-government in the field of municipal autonomy, the existing and relevant legislative frameworks do not serve nationality self-government in practical life. It has been established by law that it is the responsibility of the local government to ensure a system of rules and conditions for the management, operation and operation of the local minority self-government. The experience of the audit of the State Audit Office has also shown that the regularity of the management of local self-governments depends to a large extent on the task of the municipal mayor's office performing management activities. This vulnerable situation does not in any way help to emphasise the co-ordinated status of local minority self-governments. The current legislation is therefore not appropriate for the municipal or local minority self-government. The future change must be worked together. In view of the fact that the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2015 provides a detailed, realistic and comprehensive picture of the work carried out, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary recommends that the Parliament adopt it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2016-09-13-32	Thank you for the views and speeches of the ethnic advocates. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, speeches will be held by the lead speaker in 15-15 minutes' time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr István Vitányi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-13-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Commissioner and his Deputy and Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, The 2011 CXI on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Law 40. On the basis of Paragraph 1 (1) of the Act, Dr. László Székely submitted to Parliament a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2015. This report was discussed and supported by the Judicial Committee as a committee responsible for tasks and powers at its meeting on 3 May 2016. The committee examined the Ajb during the trial. 40. § 2 of the Act, i.e. that the report presents the fundamental rights protection activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the rights of children, the interests of future generations, the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, and the activities undertaken to protect the rights of the most vulnerable social groups, in particular persons with disabilities, in accordance with legal provisions. On this basis, the Judicial Committee is hereby appointed B/9278. Report No 84 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Decisions In the proposal for a resolution submitted pursuant to § 2 (2) of the Act, the Parliament is recommended to accept it. Dear House, On the basis of the report before us, the Committee concluded that the professional objectives of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies in 2015 had been restored after a year, which I would like to support with the following data and facts. As stated in the report, in 2015 a total of 8420 complaints were received from the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, which is roughly one and a half times the year 2014. In the case of the highest public interest in society, there has also been a significant increase in the migrant case: by 2015, 5440 cases were completed by the office and by the staff of the agency. About 3686 cases were still ongoing in January, but given that from 1 January 2015, as the Ombudsman referred to them, OPCAT began to monitor the national prevention mechanism under the Additional Protocol to the International Convention against Torture and Other humiliating Inhuman Treatment, 15 was conducted by the institution in respect of a new monitoring investigation, which is also relevant to the general public, such as the Debrecen Camp. Eight of these cases were reported, since the rules of the very strict international protocol had to be learned and followed at the same time. With regard to the OPCAT National Preventive Mechanism, I would like to note that last year I had the pleasure of welcoming on behalf of the Committee representatives of the UN Subcommittee on Torture personally. I could also tell them that, as a pro-government representative, I also called for the accession to the Additional Protocol to the Convention, since it cannot happen again as it happened in Hungary in 2006. No one can be tortured in Hungary, especially those acting on behalf of the monopoly on state violence. Based on what has been said, it can be concluded that the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, as can be seen in the report, is coping with the new task and that the national preventive mechanism is functioning properly. Dear House, The other important area is the new function in addition to the core activity, the electronic register of announcements of public interest and the revision of them. In 2015, 358 public-interest announcements were received, of which 346 electronically, so the success of the system is clearly visible. [[10.30]] About 50 percent of the cases were thorough and resolved with the attention of the body concerned. I would also like to draw attention to the function of the Ombudsman, which is the opinion of the draft legislation. It was mainly linked to legislation on children's rights, the environment and nationality in the previous year, which was exactly 257 cases, which also increased the quality of legislation based on practical experience. We therefore thank and encourage the office for the future. As of 1 January 2013, the Act on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights provides that if, in examining the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, he detects that the maladministration in relation to fundamental rights is caused by a municipal decree in breach of other laws, he may initiate a review of the compliance of the municipal decree with other legislation at the Curia. In 2015, the Commissioner initiated a review of the Curia in conjunction with a municipal decree on six municipal taxes, a communal tax and a noise regulation. The Office has therefore also carried out its task in this area and has demonstrated the need and correctness of the new regulation. Dear House, At the meeting of the Judicial Committee, Jobbik tried to draw the attention of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights to the matter of foreign exchange credentials in relation to the Ombudsman's report. The only problem with this is that the Ombudsman has no authority on this matter, because the parties concerned and the banks have civil law contracts, the treatment of which falls solely within the jurisdiction of the court. At the same time, I would like to reassure my fellow opposition Members that the government has made serious efforts to remedy the foreign exchange-credit problems, which we, as Members of Parliament, have contributed to here in this House. Dr. Szalayné Dr. Sándor Erzsébet Deputy Commissioner for Nationality also outlined their activities in the area of nationality law at the Justice Committee meeting. In this area of law, some 200 individual submissions can be counted in the previous year, the largest of which was the report on settlement of settlements in Miskolc and the other major area was linked to educational segregation. Dr Marcel Szabó, Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Interests of Future Generations, summarized the issues in the field. A significant part of 147 submissions relate to noise complaints in the context of road transport and public transport. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the report and the experience of the last year, I dare say that the Commissioner and his deputies of fundamental rights perform their duties to the best of their knowledge, covering all the essential aspects of their report. In the light of what has just been said, please support the adoption of the proposal for a decision, as well as the adoption of the report. Last but not least, I would like to thank the office staff for their conscientious work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-13-34	Thank you, Congressman Vitányi. I now give the floor to Mr László Teleki, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-09-13-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Commissioner, your replacements. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this report, which we can see, reflects what shows a real picture in Hungary, also because we should consider that the amount of documents, the 8240 submissions received, really reflects the fact that the office works a lot, but you can see that there are many more cases that do not affect the work of the office. As a result, I could and must list a number of things that are absolutely important to be mentioned here. With the work of the office and the work of the Ombudsman, of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party is pleased, because I think that in today's political situation what you and your colleagues can do together - as you have said - with 130 people - will certainly create a legal situation that is legal certainty in Hungary, despite the fact that very often we do not feel, mainly and primarily, in smaller settlements, that this actually applies, because the smaller a settlement, the more you can feel and see that the law is not respected and not enforced. Therefore, I think that your office has not been able to reach many places, and this is not your fault, but it is also the fault of many other institutions. You have very well outlined and systematically put together what cases there are. I would like to highlight a few things, which concern, of course, the Roma minority in particular. I would therefore like to start with the local governments, because the Roma minority self-governments - as I have always said in the previous years, when I had the opportunity - are not brought to a level that can be negotiated, so that the minority self-governments, and especially the Roma minority self-governments, are not brought to a level. This means that the law also regulates that an agreement must be concluded between the local government and the local government; this is done on paper in all cases - and this is also referred to in the report - but there is nothing to do with its content, because its content is not regulated or filled with content. As a result, I think that it is important to draw the attention of the notaries, the attention of the local authorities, to the fact that they are here, because if the cooperation in these national governments is based only on paper form and are not filled with content, then there is no point in seeing the national governments, they are doing much more harm than can be beneficial, simply because they are beginning to see social distastefully enough at local levels, and I say once again, in particular, the Roma minority self-governments. In order to stop this negative picture, I think it is very important to pay attention to the content, to the notaries to make a recommendation, and, of course, to the municipalities. Of course, national authorities also have a task in this regard, namely that they should also try to move in a direction in which they can present many things in substance. I also indicated in the last year's report that I do not know where to put this particular task-based support system, because in this case it would be possible to see who works, which minority self-government works, but there is no coherence in the scorings that can really work together. As a result, I think that this system itself should be reconsidered. The idea itself is very good that task-based funding has been created. However, this is not filled with content as to how to reach the points for which they receive certain additional resources in addition to the operating framework. As a result, I think that the government should make a recommendation to try to revise the system, because you can see and hear complaints - I can hear it myself - about the fact that in many cases the local authorities are working very hard, tending to culture, and preparing different events, while on the other hand you can see smaller settlements where there is less work, but they get higher points, and they cannot otherwise be dealt with by the national governments. This can be seen not only in the Roma case, but also in the other 12 nationalities, that such points cause problems for national governments. So this is definitely a concern in my order of values. Secondly, I was talking about the operation of the municipalities, but many times we see that there are tasks that cannot be solved because they do not have legal authority, and they do not have a toolbox, such as managing the social situation and managing public work and public employment. During the last period, more and more people are hearing about the transfer of public employment to the minority self-government, so to speak. This is not good either, because they are not equipped with the knowledge that they could really control or know the employee who works in the settlement. It is therefore necessary to look at this as well and to examine how to move forward on this issue. In the last part of the local government: in the area of funding, it is still possible to see that they are underfunded and, above all, the county levels, so at territorial levels there is no owner of the national authorities, and - again, I say this to all 13 nationalities - there is no reason why the county assembly, to which this territorial level is assigned, is really not able to deal with it and does not want to deal with it, and therefore the regional levels are treated as stepmothers. I think that the government and the ombudsman's office have something to do here again to indicate that there is something to be done here, because there is no right cooperation between the territorial level and the county municipal level. [[10.40]] In relation to the national government, I raised it at the committee meeting, although it is not your topic, and I know it very well, but I would like to say here too that the trend in financial abuse, the money that has disappeared from there, according to the press, according to the media, must be taken into account by law. We need to find out where the resources that were supposed to reach Roma catch-up, the Bridge for the work programme or any other program are. This certainly makes your work difficult, but Roma children and adults cannot get a chance, because those missing funds are definitely missing from the budget, from the use. As a result, I think that the financial supervision of municipalities, whether it be a local government, and I have also said that, whether it is the national one, must be more targeted, because it is public money, and public money must be handled well and treated in such a way that it really reaches the target group to whom it is addressed. There are major problems in the national government, and this certainly affects the activity that we should achieve in catching up. I would like to say no more about the municipalities, although there is much more. Roma education is also included in your report. Here, too, the segregation of education is mentioned. Since the change of regime, it has been constantly perceived and seen that this subject is coming back again and again. Every government had a fault, a sin in still not being able to deal with it properly, and the social acceptance that we should be able to achieve now is still not achieved, and we have not been able to put this issue in its place. It is therefore very important that the situation of Roma education should change at a level much better to integrate the Roma child, who, by the way, feels very disadvantaged in smaller settlements. Almost every small settlement has a segregation. For whoever can take his child to another larger settlement, and the Roma children stay there and try to study alone, not under the circumstances and not with teachers, respect for the exception who might be able to prepare him for life in such a way that it is really good. Therefore, we must also strive to ensure that the mobility that we see now does not stop, because it is natural, but Roma children should also be given the opportunity to move forward in this respect if they want to study in a larger institution. Again, I think it is very important, because the report has also pointed out the segregation and different points of education. So what I'm saying is that we definitely have a lot of work to do again. We hear less and less about the fact that there is segregation in health that affects not only the Roma population, but also the disabled, and many others. In this regard, I also think that the people who make the signals need to be alerted, because I know that there are more places to turn in different situations, that there are different health workers to turn to on this issue, but I think that patients should be more alerted to the ombudsman's office in addition to the representation of patients' rights. Because your recommendations, I think, are very important and must be very important to all institutions. However, I still see that the situation in health is chaotic in terms of people not being treated on an equal footing, and there is definitely a need for further action. If I remember correctly, page 242 is the section on segregation housing. We are talking very little about this, and still based on my statistics, which I have collected from various data, there are about 600-700 gypsy colonies that have segmented. In this programme, which the previous government announced, and the current government continued for a while, very few have been able to disappear, we still know of some 500 segregational Roma settlements, and we are talking about nearly 80 to 100 thousand people. In this, I think it must be done, and not just in Miskolc. It is also very important what was highlighted in the report, but I would also like to mention the segregations of small settlements, where many children live. Child protection, child rights are almost impossible there. Therefore, the eradication of the segmented residential community should be a national strategy that should affect all parliamentary parties. Of course, the current government has a responsibility, that is to say, to the current government, whether it wants to move forward on this issue. Because what I see and feel today is that those who live in Roma settlements, gypsy settlements, whatever they may call them, cannot really develop in education, employment or health care, and cannot use them. Therefore, it is a priority, and I will use that word once again, a national question whether we can move forward in this case or not. Since my time is short, I just want to say one more thing. It's about civil society organisations. I think that civil society organisations, especially Roma civil society organisations and minority organisations, have been increasingly leaving the task they could otherwise perform. They could help either the government or the local government, they could do extra tasks, but civil courage is beginning to die in Hungary. This is primarily due to the underfunding that you can see at the moment. You can't talk about civil courage anymore. In this, I think, again, there is something to be done either by the Ombudsman or by his office or by political parties or by the government to make a change. Because today, it doesn't matter whether it's a nationality or not, civilians are needed by this country, because without civilians, it's very difficult to do the job that really counts as public affairs. Therefore, I think it is absolutely important to look at this issue. Unfortunately, I can't talk about the rest now, I may have another two-minute speech. We talked very little about culture. The use of language within culture should also be highlighted. Language is a disaster. The autonomy that is now through the language charter is indeed written on paper, but it does not apply, a single institution cannot comply with it. They can't keep it for a number of reasons. It's not just the institutions' fault, anyway, that they can't keep it. It does not really play a role in higher education either, but if the Roma language could be introduced in this case, or ethnic languages could be managed at higher education level, they could teach the Roma language, no matter which of the two, we would be much ahead, there would be a lot more people in the institutions who could speak ethnic language, so that they could better manage their affairs. 'Cause the law's in vain, right, if we can't keep it. So we should definitely get ahead of ourselves in this, and we should definitely start with the language within the cultural issues. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-13-36	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. I now give the floor to Congressman György Rubovszky, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-09-13-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Commissioner, Dear Deputys, I would like to return to our item on the agenda, namely the report and the parliamentary decision tabled, because a significant part of the speeches were more about criticism of the government than about the Ombudsman's report. There is only one question in the ombudsman's report that I would like to address with a positive charge, in my view. During the Ombudsman's hearing, he said that the number of complaints increased to about 8,000. This question can also be considered as having 8,000 complaints about fundamental rights, but it can also be understood, and I am more on this party than on this party that there has been an increase in trust in the office in society. This is very important. [[10.50]] I would like to wish the office, the Ombudsman and the deputy ombudsman good health and patience for this work. Dear Parliament, On the part of the Commissioner, the report, Mr Vitányi, praised the content of the report for a long time, and I do not wish to go into the details. I would like to announce that the Christian Democratic Group is adopting the Ombudsman's report, that it will vote in favour of the parliamentary resolution, and that is what we are asking this House to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-13-38	Thank you, Congressman Rubovszky. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-13-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Members of Parliament, Honourable Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners, Colleagues! We have heard the report by Mr László Székely, and we have seen the work of his increased organization, since there have been 8240 complaints, which have increased by about 50 percent over a year. That's a very, very serious number. I think that any organisation with a 50 percent increase in responsibilities over a year has a job and does not get the right number of people, because it is not possible to calculate from one year to the next how this will change, it is not a small thing to do so. So this is definitely a very, very difficult thing. It is also difficult because it is an organisation that examines, in particular, the functioning of the power of the state, of the local government, of the executive power, of the extent to which civil rights are violated by these authorities, by public authorities or by other institutions, to what extent there may be any form of social discrimination. When we talk about a public body, it is difficult to look at public bodies, so we are also in a very delicate area here. I have had the opportunity to meet colleagues in Spain and Sweden in the last cycle, i.e. the Spanish and Swedish ombudsman, who really appreciated the work of their colleagues in Hungary and stressed that Hungary is doing a lot to ensure that fundamental civil rights work, and in this connection the office was highly praised. In this spirit, we are also pleased that we have been informed that the Office's budget will increase by another HUF 100 million, and that the delays that are a problem both in the building and within the organization can be replaced. I would like to discuss the report in a little bit more detail. I liked it very much when Mr Székely started his speech a year or two ago by saying that it would be very good for sociologists to make the ombudsman's report mandatory every year, because it highlights the problems of society that all sociologists in Hungary should know. I also think that this is very important, because from this report we see very important social problems. I am glad that these social problems are brought into perspective year after year. Obviously, new problems and new tasks will come in. Here is the migrant crisis, which is the report's most important one, and the additional tasks that have arisen. On the one hand, I will approach this report from this side, and on the other, about what other changes I see in it, which I will address. Let's look at this report in a little bit more detail. Firstly, we must see that the issue of education is a very important part of the report. We are not entirely satisfied with the findings on education, of course I know that it is not easy to formulate these findings. As Mr Teleki said, the issue of segmented, integrated education - perhaps one of the most fundamental on this subject - is a very sensitive subject that Parliament has been pushing for years and even decades. Obviously, the subject of this issue should not be excluded from the Ombudsman's report. Mr Teleki took this question primarily from the perspective of integrated education, and the Ombudsman's report also analyses the problem of integrated education and addresses the problems in which segregation appears in any form at any level of education, and clearly feels it is his task to help in this area. There is indeed a lot of truth in this, because when we talk about segregation, we are talking about the social and social segregation of the most deprived, which they want to integrate. However, we regularly turn this question around. I have already made it a criticism of these reports that the problem of the other side does not appear. When we talk about integrated education, whether the rights of students who have the same right to study, to receive adequate vocational education, are violated, but in the framework of integrated education, practically unmanageable students who are making education extremely low or almost impossible. What are we going to do about their right to education? My ear was struck by Mr Teleki's speech as a keynote speaker that he did not think that it was evil to take children from the integrated education system to another school, where there might be a different, higher level of training, but that he did not think it was good that those who stayed there would eventually not receive such a quality of education. That's really how they solve the question at the moment. More than once, teachers complained to me that if more than three or four hard-to-treat children were in one class, they would no longer teach, not teach, but discipline. And another issue is that in a school we talk about discipline, or that there is education, and that is good teaching work. Otherwise, everyone should find at their own level the appropriate education system in which they can obtain the knowledge, the right to education that they deserve. I think that children who are being transferred from a weaker school to a higher school in the framework of integrated education will also be lagging behind, because they cannot follow the standard that that class represented until then. There have been many such problems, for example, in Nyíregyháza. When the suburban school was terminated, the students in the suburbs, especially Gypsy children, were integrated into the inner city schools, and the problems started back and forth. And it's very interesting that he's given me this award: the local gypsy population protested against the closure of their own local school, and they didn't want their children to be integrated into downtown school in the first place. Of course, no one cared about that, nor what happened after that, nor what professional standards became. In the inner city school, the professional standards were higher than in the suburban school, which could not be recorded and followed by the children who had been integrated. This has created the problem that has put education in a very difficult situation on virtually both sides. I think that, when we look at segregational education, this should be included in the two pans of the balance sheet, and not only should the issue be examined unilaterally. Such was, for example, the report on social issues a year earlier, which I considered very one-sided. This contained findings in which the ombudsman's report examined the social situation of the Roma population. We've met many times with the word "• discrimination" and the word "social prejudices" and the exclusion. General findings were made in this ombudsman's report, in which criticism of the current majority society was expressed. [[11.00]] Now in this report, thank God, I couldn't find these, which would have so generalized the problems. I think we cannot generalise these problems. And while we have talked about it, if it has already come up, Mr Teleki has just said that to catch up and integrate the gypsy population from the state, we should expect more from the state, then I would also ask whether the gypsy population that expects this is what he himself or his organisations, local governments and civil society organisations are doing on their own to make the segregation even more disappear. Because I think in a lot of cases, they're just waiting for the state, but they're not doing enough for it. We would also like to hear from Mr Teleki how they think, what they would like to do, what they should offer from the Roma population to do for this. There is also another problem, since we have already touched on this, which is about catching up with Gypsies, and which I would also have liked to have read in this report, even if the report itself should not have been a topic, because we would have received it as much as it did with the problem of foreign exchange lenders. I think that it should appear at least at the level of mention in this, that one of the fundamental problems of catching up with Gypsyism is that some of the funds allocated to it are unfortunately disappearing in Hungary; or that organisations that have received it cannot account for this amount. And not to catch up with the gypsy, but, unfortunately, we don't know where this money is going. I think it would be good to read at least one or two sentences about this, that this is also part of the fact that the catch-up of gypsyism is at the moment where it is. I missed another important element in education, and this is a question of textbook supply. Not only integrated-segregated education, but also textbook provision is causing problems in Hungary, and I don't see this opening either. Even though children's right to education is important, when they start school on September 1, appropriate textbooks are available. Of course, we heard here today and yesterday in the speeches from the opposition that there are no textbooks, on the part of the government that there are textbooks. Those who have schoolchildren all know what the truth is. There were no textbooks in September this year, last year or the year before. Of course, there was some of them, some of them didn't, and then some of them get the kid in October, some of them in November, some of them only in December, some of them don't even get the kids. And they'll download it from the Internet and print out textbooks and get photocopies from teachers. This is how textbook supply works today in Hungary, and we say that the government has practically made it free. We also see that this is not true, and it would also be good to read between the findings that unfortunately this is also a problem in education. Health: Findings about health. I'm reading the angelland needle exchange program for drug addicts, I'm reading the pharmacies on call. This is all very good and very nice, and it really needs to be addressed, but I think that there are other problems. I also read in the report that the number of patient rights complaints is not increasing or even falling in recent times, which is very positive, but we are not talking about another very big problem, which I do not see in the report. This is a question of waiting lists, which I think is our most fundamental right, a huge problem in the case of our right to health. When it comes to 180 days of waiting, sometimes even years of waiting, a person's right to life can become virtually questionable. After all, we are talking about not having to follow the waiting list in case of the most important problems. There are diseases, problems when 180 days, 90 days, 300 days will be the waiting time, and in the meantime, the patient may die because he has such a disease. So I think we should at least deal with that. Obviously, the ombudsman's office will not solve this problem, but I think it should be on our table every year because it is a serious problem. It's the same for outpatients, outpatients, and outpatients. Sometimes we encounter shocking data, because it may take several months for a person to appear in an outpatient clinic. But such a problem, for example, is the on-call care in Budapest. I am talking about hospital services, which have again been a serious problem in recent years. It would have been nice to see that in this report. There is also a very important issue that you are not dealing with again, although it is not again possible to say that this is a specific task for the Office, but I think that this should also be mentioned in this report. And that's the problem of gratitude money. So I've touched on several points that I think are very important. Because I think the needle exchange program is very important, but it's more important than that. I see the time is up, so I'll continue in a comment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-13-40	Thank you, Congressman Gyure. Dear Parliament, The LMP does not wish to make use of the opportunity to speak, and so we have reached the end of the speeches by the lead speaker. An independent Member is not in the room, so we now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Petneházy, Fidesz.
u2016-09-13-41	With all due respect, Mr President. Of course, I do not want to open the door that my fellow Member has already mentioned, that the opposition is taking every opportunity to express government criticism, because that is what it is really supposed to do. But his sentence to Congressman Teleki was certainly a starting point for me that civil courage in Hungary would be lost, and the activities of civil society associations would seem to be slowing down. Of course, I can only speak authenticly as a birch-egyházi from birch-egyháza areas, but I must report clearly the opposite. In Nyíregyháza, civil life has been booming in recent years, and I certainly do, and I must give you personal experience, no matter how much you like to express your answer to me right away. I can say, personally, as a representative of Nyíregyháza, that I spend most of my activities and visits around the city among civilians, whether pensioners, civil society in relation to Roma affairs, or whether it is a cultural area. Everywhere, I report, the civilians are doing their part in Nyíregyháza public life, they are able to help the people in Nyíregyháza and those in need. Congressman Gyure told me that a certain school was closed in Nyiregyháza. But for the sake of accuracy, it is appropriate to add that this particular school has been opened, thank God, although many have also attacked it, which I think is a crime to attack this particular school. But I wouldn't open that right now. A lot of us in this room know what this is about. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-13-42	Thank you very much, Congressman Petnehazy. I give the floor to Congressman László Teleki for two minutes, MSZP.
u2016-09-13-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I don't want to argue with Dr. Csaba Gyüre. I want to clarify what I said. So I said that it is very important that there are educational institutions in small settlements. If non-Roma children are removed from there, make them mobile so that Roma children can follow them, in a higher quality education system. I think this is a very important picture of my values. Because if we leave them there and say that he doesn't meet the Roma every day, that Roma child can survive the same feud that we can see now. So integrated education has a much greater significance today than ever before. So we need to make the education system mobile, not just for some children, but also for poor children. And this is not only about Roma children, but also about the poor. Because the poor are not mobile, I would like to add, and they will stay with the gypsy children, and there is no education as high, I say once again, respect for the exception as otherwise provided in the educational form of larger settlements. [[11.10]] I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Mr Petnehazy, one thing I would like to say very briefly to you. I have received a letter in the last few days - otherwise I will be here to talk about civil affairs in the next few weeks - asking that these problems will be settled daily and signed by more NGOs, but don't bring up our names, please, because that won't do us any good, because then we will fall away from tender money and other sources. So all I'm saying is that some people are good at being civilians today, some people are not good at being civilians, because if all civilians were to be given the same amount of resources they have, then I wouldn't get a letter like that either, because I don't think I'm the only one who's getting our names out of it, because then we're not gonna get as much support as we just got. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-13-44	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. I'll give the floor to Csaba Gyure for two minutes.
u2016-09-13-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Teleki, said that education should be made mobile. I think it is, at the moment, no legislation, no regulation tells us that if the child belonging to the current majority society is taken from the village to a city school, then why shouldn't a child of gypsy origin be taken away? I do not think that there is any regulation, and indeed, I think that there is no such practice, at least I have not heard any practice restricting it at any level. I'm not saying that you're wrong about the fact that financial opportunities, if any, can limit who can take your child. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: It is also a limit.]] But it is also certain that the state has an obligation to present the average level of education at all levels, i.e. in the smallest village where there is a school, at the appropriate level, which is a matter of fact that the state must ensure this. That's what the government kept talking about, that's why KLIK was created, so that the school in the smallest village would have at least as high a level of education as it is in an elite school in the capital. Obviously, we don't believe that. I would very much expect the majority of the government to prove that to be true, but theoretically, that's the attitude. And to my fellow Member, Attila Petneházy, with one thought, it is true that the school I was talking about in Nyíregyháza was opened later. It is quite sad that the Greek Catholic Church was closed and had to assume that the state's task, which the state or the local government had yet to undertake, was that of the Greek Catholic Church, because there was a huge social need for it, taking into account that at least it had done it. Indeed, it is very welcome and I really agree with Attila Petneházy, it is a very sad fact that some people have attacked it, rather than even attacked it, but they have tried to impose all kinds of court proceedings and sanctions against the church because it has met social needs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Attila Petnehazy applauds.]]
u2016-09-13-46	Thank you, Congressman Gyure. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first to Member Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2016-09-13-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Ombudsman and his replacements! I am pleased that we can hold a debate on this report before the Parliament, which we have already started or done at the meeting of the Judicial Committee. I have reviewed the report, because one forgets, no matter how much it was present, and I am trying to build on the record and what has been said there, so that we can not only repeat, but also carry on some of the professional debates, because it is our shared responsibility that these reports are getting better, and now it is not only a matter of professional understanding, but also of areas that may have been less pronounced in the past. Of course, it is also necessary to see that the position of Members of Parliament and, in particular, of opposition representatives is an opponent position, so obviously we can help by identifying, on the one hand, the areas of concern where we believe that progress can be made, but I also like to highlight those areas that are positive. Therefore, I will not fail to praise, and I will mention a number of areas where there is special joy and special thanks for their manifestation, and for the fact that they were included in the report and have been mentioned in the Judicial Committee. So you're gonna have to put in a package to appreciate what I'm gonna say. I would like to start with, and here I would also like to refer to the debate in the Committee on Justice, that I have sometimes felt that we did not understand 100 percent of everything, because the law limits it - and I have to say, unfortunately - about who, for example, can turn to the Constitutional Court with a rule of law or a basic law interpretation. We did not agree that this was the case, but if this right has already been granted to the Ombudsman, I believe that in this case he has an increased responsibility to live with it. Not necessarily, although I know that you can use this in cases where there is a case before you in connection with this, but when other bodies or Members of Parliament seek the Ombudsman, I think that you need to look more closely at the fact that neither a Member of Parliament nor even a political group can turn alone, because a quarter of the Members are needed for the Constitutional Court. In fact, there is a need to pay particular attention to such needs, and when we said that we would have expected more norm control or even more constitutional interpretations from the Ombudsman, we would have called attention to this increased need, increased responsibility, and, of course, this is a legal state. If we had the right or the right, as it used to be, to any citizen to turn to the Constitutional Court, then believe me, Commissioner, we wouldn't draw your attention to this or do it so strongly. Then, at the committee meeting, we mentioned that we could not see enough procedures in foreign exchange-credit cases. You replied, in which you were partly right, to add that in a crucial part of the cases, this is a civil law contract, in which you cannot intervene or the Ombudsman cannot intervene. This is true, so I can accept this, but in many cases we have seen laws in the Hungarian Parliament, which, in our opinion, violated fundamental rights, or even implemented retrospective case-law and legal practice that made enforcement of foreign exchange credentials more difficult or impossible in many cases; even the issue of validity-invalidity can be considered here. If we add this to the fact that these amendments to the law were shamefully made after they were won by foreign exchange credentials, they began to win in the courts, and then the savior of foreign exchange creduls, the Fidesz government, quickly tabled a legislative amendment so that it could not happen - I would not go into the details, we have done it either in the Curia's report or in the relevant laws - well, in these cases, I think it might have occurred that the Ombudsman could have turned or turned to the Constitutional Court and asked for a statement that these laws did indeed violate fundamental rights and are contrary to fundamental rights. I only wanted to highlight this because it was discussed at the committee meeting and I had the opportunity to get to know the Ombudsman's position. Then I would also like to confirm here, especially if there are several ethnic advocates present, that it has been said about us that although the Hungarian state, thankful to God, is gallant with certain rights and even financially supports nationalities, in many cases we find, on the basis of the feedback, that they are not always able to live with it, and not necessarily because the Hungarian authorities, offices, are cursed, but often there are bureaucratic obstacles to the fulfilment of these rights. Here we can even bring up the issue of documents in the minority language, and we have received more feedback that in many cases we have the right, but the law is valid as long as the administrator, the administrator at the lowest level, has knowledge, and in many cases the possibilities of using these rights may have slipped or become very difficult, but here we could also mention the relationship between KLIK and the ethnic schools, we have seen several problems here too. [[11.20]] I would like to list some very positive areas, and I would like to ask you again in the future, if I may ask you to keep a few areas in focus. Marcel Szabó told us in detail that you have examined the fundamental rights aspects of TTIP, the Transatlantic Trade Treaty, in American-European, and have been very active in it; we thank you very much for that, and we would like it to continue in the future. We believe that it may indeed affect fundamental rights, what kind of contract is being concluded. We also fight in the appropriate forums, whether here, in the Parliament, we trust that the Hungarian Government, although we often cannot decide exactly what its position is in this regard, but that it will act, and it is very important to see that the violation of fundamental rights may arise if the development of a non-compliant treaty comes to the fore. We would like you to continue to do so, as I have said, in the future. Then, in the field of waste management - this has also been said - you have had more submissions to you, I have also been contacted as a Member of Parliament, not in one case, and I have found one, a continuing, multi-annual problem, that you have acted very correctly in that direction, and several municipalities have been called upon to adopt or amend local regulations that comply with the laws. In this case, it was necessary to see that the resolutions on the part of the Office, practically legally on the part of the Ombudsman, made it easier for citizens to seek rights, because if an invitation was received from the Ombudsman, the municipalities did so. The question was whether there was an opportunity for citizens to decide how many trash bins they collect, and the question of proportionality is whether they pay as much as they can fill it, and an important question is whether we are talking about mandatory services, but whether someone, let's say, doesn't live in a cottage and can take a break from this service, too, it is important that they come to the fore. By the way, I would like to add that there are other municipalities where this has not been implemented, but I also encourage citizens that, if the municipalities do not do so, they can turn to the Ombudsman. There have been many times before me - I would like to mention this only partly because of the scarcity of time - the concept of segregation. Szalayné Sándor Erzsébet gave us an exhaustive definition at the committee meeting. I opposed that the report seemed to use this concept with insufficient precision, but the addition was satisfactory to me, as it was said that in cases where one is classified on the basis of a level of knowledge, and a school categorizes students to classes, and in this way they are properly trained, this does not achieve segregation in a negative sense, it was a positive expression for me. By the way, I also asked Minister Zoltán Balog this question, and he also said that, yes, this is a question that we would like only in practice if this were to happen. I am convinced that an appropriate local education, even in a small settlement, can be carried out - but this can also be true for large settlements - if, on a knowledge base, we can give all study groups what they are most helpful to, as a need, suitable teachers with special qualifications. Another question is that if certain false rights defenders then call for segregation, then, legally and in all sorts of ways, this argument system can and can be defended, and we would very much like for these processes to start professionally in the future. Then I called the Ombudsman's attention - and I trusted him, and I was informed that they were investigating the case - in connection with the police's photography of individual identification marks. I have to bring this up very briefly here too, because, without a legal background, it is currently the practice of taking photographs in virtually any case, even in intimate places, of different perpetrators, whether suspected for a reason or without a reason. And it's not that, say, dangerous criminals shouldn't be allowed to do this, but a road violation or a road crime, or even a defamation case, if, let's say, it was at the expense of a public figure and the prosecution represents the charge, it's not regulated, as an annex to an ORFK order, to oblige those who suffer the procedure to take pictures naked or even, say, search for tattoos on their bodies, it violates fundamental rights, and it's not in the current legislation. By the way, I went to the Ministry of the Interior on this matter; they replied that this had the legal authority, because in these cases, description management is what the police are authorized to do. Even as a layman, I don't think it's hard to see that a description treatment doesn't mean taking photographs, especially not from, say, an intimate body part. Nevertheless, the area should be regulated by law, because in some cases certain perpetrators, such as their tattoos and unique identification marks, should be photographed, but this should be done within the framework of the rule of law, so that the protection of fundamental rights can also be achieved - we are trying to get the government to do so. I ask the Ombudsman to do so together with the inquiry. I know that this is going a little beyond the report of the 15th, but this is when we have the opportunity to talk about such serious issues here in Parliament. In addition to these topics, because there is a great deal to be said and said, I would like to ask that this year, as in the past, be built in, because we can see that in many cases our parliamentary views have been incorporated, regardless of what I have said, we will always have criticisms, because it is such a genre. But I also said that we will also draw attention to positive things, and - not going into more detail now - we would like to wish the Ombudsman and his deputies good work in the future, and we hope that we can still have many professional comments, and that the debate on the fundamental rights of the profession will continue within and outside Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause in the ranks of Jobbik and the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-13-48	Thank you, Congressman Staudt. I give the floor to Congressman László Teleki for two minutes, MSZP.
u2016-09-13-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I thought I was gonna say this one last time because there's not gonna be any more speakers, but there's gonna be more. I would like to thank the Commissioner and his colleagues, his deputy, for the work that they have done, because, as I said at the beginning, I think that you are a pillar of the rule of law and patron Saints of the poor, if you will, because many times the poor and the fallen can only turn to you. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party wishes to support the report, the report that is ahead of us, because we respect your work. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-13-50	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. I give Mr Ander Balázs the opportunity to speak for 15 minutes, Jobbik.
u2016-09-13-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Commissioner, Ladies and gentlemen, On 25 and 26 June 2015, four members of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights examined the Zita Special Children's Home in Kaposvár, Somogy County, so it seems obvious to me, as a better representative in Somogy County, that I should talk about this investigation and share my thoughts with you in a somewhat broader context. Just because I am convinced that the social tranquillity of the near future will depend very much on the education, education, catching-up and socialisation we can provide for young people and children with problems, disadvantaged and potentially deviant behaviour, even with public participants, so that it is not just about the family. [[11.30]] This ombudsman's report, which this March 2016 saw the light of day, produced a huge amount of press coverage, the tabloid press inflated, you might say, all of it, who, by the way, turned out the many good insights, well-intentioned recommendations, and tried to present, in deep violation of the workers there, this special children's home for the general public, as if it were the house of horror, as if the porch of hell were the Zita Children's Home. Obviously here on the recommendations, on the 18 recommendations of the 30-page report, I cannot and do not wish to go through, we can fully agree with very much of them, such as the recommendation on child poverty. It would be very important that, in 2016, in the middle of Europe, only because the financial opportunities for a family are limited, no child should be highlighted from his family and should not be included in the child protection system. However, there are also points, say, 5 or 6 that may seem a little unfounded even to the lay reader, because if I am referring to reservations about the isolation period or to restrictions on the freedom of children, then it is important to be aware that these children did not come to this special institute by accident, because they are suffering from dissociative behavioral disorders. And in such a way, the freedom restriction, at least during the first period of their stay, is very valid. In many cases, these young people have committed or threatened to commit crimes themselves, because if we think about prostitution, or even drug use, in the report, it must be made clear that if we want to save these young people, then in many cases there is no other way to save them than to separate them and isolate them from the environment from which they were admitted to this special institution. In many cases, it is the family members themselves who, say, force these young people to be prostitutes, so in my opinion, it is certainly right that they should, at least during the first period of entry, undergo some sort of isolation period. The press scandal that followed this report is the inflated press scandal, the sensationalist headlines that, as I said, wanted to make this institute a house of horror, however, are not justified, and, as I said, they are deeply insulting those dedicated workers who are at the mercy of their souls to be able to raise people useful to Hungarian society from these young people who have entered it. I visited this institute myself, obviously, and as a member of Somogy County, I think it was my duty to face what was there myself. I've experienced order, purity, and satisfactory circumstances. The institution itself was designed for 32 young people. According to the ombudsman's report, there were 30 children at the time of their visit, but nine of them were on the run, so to speak, and two young people were sent to juvenile detention centers for crimes. So, overall, we're talking about 19 young people in there, 38 of whom have 38 employees. In such a way, if we think about it, we must see that the Hungarian state cannot do much more than that at the professional level to save these young people. 38 employees to 19 young people! In my opinion, if the Hungarian state had already intervened - and obviously had to intervene - it would otherwise be wiser to start this process of intervention at some point and not wait for the events to be culminated in this form and for these young people to be in a state, in many cases thanks to their families following their own social norms, where the return journey will be very, very difficult. The teachers and educators who worked there complained about this, which was one of the biggest mistakes they made, that by the time these young people came to them, they could sweat blood, but the chances of success would be small. However, the current investigation itself and the report are merely scratching the surface, and we are talking about a much deeper social problem system, namely: the issue of Roma integration, which has rolled ahead of it for centuries, and which has been seriously derailed since the change of regime. By the way, I don't see very well, and sometimes it's a problem because I don't see the time, but I'm not color-blind. The ombudsman's report also reported that 90 percent of young people in the institution were Roma. Nor can the issue be simplified on the subject of poverty, as we know precisely that the rate of child poverty, which is extremely high in Hungary, is already above 40 percent, as opposed to, say, the Slovak 10% or even lower rates in the Czech Republic. It is important to know that 25 percent of children living in poverty are Gypsy-born and half of children living in extreme poverty are also Gypsy-born. But you have to see that there are also very, very many young people on the majority side of society who are affected by poverty. But that's not the basis for children entering this facility. Obviously, no one is saying, and no one can accuse the children of child protection of some kind of racist temper or fervour to be held together by gypsy children. No, it is not just for this reason that children come here, but because, as the philosophy of the institution speaks, the founder's statement or the task assigned to them should be saved for young people suffering from antisocial dissociative behaviour. If 90% of this is the proportion of Gypsy children, then there are questions that need to be considered. Compliance with the standards required by the majority society, the fact that these young people are already meeting patterns of conduct in their families and bringing here patterns of conduct that will seal their fate forever, is a matter that must be addressed, since the future is a very threatening, honourable fellow Members. If I were to think of the population explosion that has been observed among the social groups, what one Gypsy politician, Roma expert, István Forgács said was that giving birth to poverty at a young age, without school, is not a cultural right and virtue, it would be very good to hear this, and somehow this message, the message of the integrated Gypsy people, could also be carried over to that Roma social group, which certainly did not hear it, and is exponentially producing problems in this form, especially if this population explosion is accompanied by a kind of social disintegration. If this is what we are thinking, we also need to see that in a few years there may be very, very serious problems in elegant areas such as the Cherehát or, for example, in the area of the Southern Transdanubian Ormania. This is the time to think that the educational package, let's say, that we put down on the table and demanded several times, is nowhere to be found. It is important to see that a significant proportion of these young people, whom I have been talking about here, behave in a manner perfectly appropriate to those published by Jean-Paul Brighelli in his book at Cairo. This author wrote in his book Foolishly Condemned, that the family role model of these young people is often a criminal, their pets are pit bulls and rottweilers, and they already get acquainted with drugs in primary school and nothing else. [[11.40]] With these young people, we should do something, because, as I said at the beginning, the social calm of the near future depends on how we can integrate them. But if we think that 25 percent of Roma young people still finish their high school career without a high school degree or profession, then this only confirms that there are huge problems with Roma integration in Hungary. It is no wonder that this is the case, since the government refuses to let go of the hand of the gypsy leader whose hand is in the grip of the removal of the serious billions for Roma integration. While we offer honest-working and thinking gypsy people, we offer a friendly better, who see the future of their responsible children in their study and work, my esteemed pro-government fellow Members, even if you accuse me of using this item for a sort of anti-government attack, it must also be said that they are indeed conspiring with those who make these integration funds disappear. They are doing this against Gypsyism and they are doing this to Hungarians. It would be great... - and it is the responsibility of the state, because these problems cannot be solved with these gypsy leaders in their pockets or compromised. You're conspiring with them. Previously, the SZDSZ accused the Hungarian majority society of exclusion, discrimination and fascism. Again, Jobbik doesn't think that way. Jobbik is a friend to honest gypsy people. But there are four serious tasks here that would affect the state on the one hand and the Roma communities on the other, and if we can't solve them, there will be no progress on Roma integration. Indeed, on the part of gypsyism, the culture of self-segregating and exclusion, which Sándor Romano Rácz said so much about, must be eliminated. It must be thrown into the public and talked about the idea of responsible, conscious childbearing, because - and I didn't say it, but the Gypsy Butterfly of Borsod, Attila Lakatos - the child is not an animal, but a responsibility. This would be a big task for gypsy leaders, responsible thinkers of gypsy leaders, to carry this through and fight for it. On the other hand, the state would expect a great deal from this area. In particular, teachers and social professionals working in crisis zones should be paid. They offer them a career model that makes working in this area attractive, working with children who really need to be integrated into our shared future, for the sake of shared happiness. And, yes, we should also talk about the system of boarding schools, the schools that, by highlighting these children early, could do something about that retreating family environment, but unfortunately, there is no such dialogue, especially if I refer to the situation of schools in great trouble, the situation of schools that deal with such difficult children, but because of the government's failure, they are in enormous financial trouble. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would ask my honourable fellow Members to consider these issues together. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-13-52	Thank you, Congressman Ander. There will be two-minute comments; first, Congressman Attila Gelencsér, Fidesz.
u2016-09-13-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the rare moment when I would like to join or support the right-wing Member who spoke before me as a pro-government Member. As Parliamentary Representative of Kaposvár and the tenant of this foster home for eight years, I think I know the situation there quite well. The sentences made by Balázs Ander agree with every word he says about the foster home. Moreover, I know that you have been a county representative for four years, and you may know it from there, but I also know that the workers have told me that the congressman really took the time to visit this institution, and the fact is that it is difficult to say better sentences than the congressman, because the situation is exactly what he has just said. What I would like to say about the mood is that it is a little uncomfortable that a series of ombudsman inquiries are coming in and that the workers' aspects are not taken into account at all. Much more tact, empathy, compassion, attention would be needed in this regard, because - to quote only the people there, the people who live in Kaposvár, who work in this institution - if the ombudsman would spend, say, two days there, anyone would be happy to show how to work and deal with these young people, given that those who are in danger there are often not the young, but the adult who works there. The fact is that the crimes that the Member spoke of - from prostitution to drug use - that he would like to contain, say, with a closure, with a grid, there are other legal problems at the moment, and if that does not happen, there are life-threatening conditions in there almost every day. So it's true. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I also believe that progress should be made on this matter in other respects. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz and Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-13-54	Thank you very much, Congressman Gelencsér. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély for two minutes.
u2016-09-13-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, child poverty in Hungary is not a gypsy problem. Deep poverty is neither a gypsy problem nor a gypsy child. Today, 42.2 percent of children under the age of 7 are exposed to poverty and grow up in poverty, which means every other child under the age of 7. I would like to ask the Members of Parliament some questions. Does a child ever ask to be born in the world? Can a child help to bring him into the world? Is a child responsible for being born, regardless of where he belongs? Isn't the responsibility and responsibility of adult society and adults always and always to protect our children - we're talking about any child - who should be exposed to growing up in poverty? All I ask you to think about - my better fellow Members, my fellow Members with fidesz, and everyone who sits in this room and not in this room - is that if God had chosen to be born into a gypsy family, what opportunity he would have had in life, what opportunity he would have had in this country, or what opportunity he would have had today as a gypsy child. I think we have a lot more responsibility, and we have the greatest responsibility on this subject. I just want to protect the kids, whatever kid we're talking about, and sometimes, I think it'd be nice to get inside and think about things. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-09-13-56	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll give the floor to Csaba Gyure for two minutes.
u2016-09-13-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Perhaps I would respond immediately to Congresswoman Bangóné, who says that she asks that the child be born. Obviously, it was a rhetorical question, so you don't want it, you don't want it. That's not the problem. Obviously, we can also think of what the life of a Gypsy child can be like if it is born into the lowest social class, as the poorest, but it must also be seen that the birth of its rights and obligations are the same, and it is still the duty of integration into society, the duty of adopting laws for everyone, for all people, for all children, and it must be respected. But it's just a half sentence, and what I wanted to talk about, what Ander Balázs inspired me to do with the special home and the children's home; obviously, from my own county, I know similar problems, and I actually accept them, and I know they are. Also, as Congressman Attila Gelencsér said, who raised the workers' points of view, should we not examine the conditions under which they work in this children's home, the danger they face in this special children's home, where integration is confused, unsuited, often criminal-life-style elements? [[11.50]] And then I'll bring up one more important point. According to the government, these homes must be integrated into society, put into cities, settlements, neighbors and so on. What does a neighbor's problem mean? What does the problem of people living on the street who are exposed every day to elements who do not want to comply with the most basic rules of social co-existence and do not want to live with them in any way? People who live in these special homes, if any, do not want to fit in. So this is another aspect that must also be taken into account, because they too have the right to housing, safety, and security. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-13-58	Thank you, Congressman Gyure. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in a 15-minute time frame.
u2016-09-13-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Commissioner, Dear Colleagues and Honourable Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, This is the agenda, which I also said last year, which I would make binding on my fellow Members - I know that this is just such a dream - to sit here, listen to it, and make it compulsory for the report to be read, because we might understand a lot about why today's Hungarian society is what it is. Following the structure of the accounts of the previous years, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights will present his activities for more than 300 pages, giving a comprehensive picture of both the operation of the Ombudsman's Office, its international relations and the situation of fundamental rights in Hungary. It describes the implementation of certain fundamental rights in Hungary in a separate chapter, detailing the specific issues. The five areas highlighted in the Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act are also highlighted in the 2015 report. Everyone knows what these areas are: the rights of children, the rights of nationalities, the protection of a healthy environment, the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of the most vulnerable groups. Unlike the accounts of previous years, in the case of the rights of nationalities living in Hungary and the interests of future generations and the protection of the right to a healthy environment, the presentation of the examination of the area for the year is not in the chapter on the assessment of the situation of constitutional rights of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, but was transferred to separate chapters 4 and 5 of the report. In view of the internal division of tasks, therefore, the Deputy Commissioner's reports and chapters address the experience of the joint work, investigations and cooperation of Commissioners and Deputy Commissioners. The Ombusman reports that triggered the biggest media response in 2015 were the following, which we find on page 43. An OPCAT visit to the Psychiatry of Gustav Hospital of Merény without prior notice. The 282 stand-alone appearances - 155 on the online interface, 68 on radio television, 59 on printed media - contributed to speeding up the management of the situation, and the impact on the situation of other Hungarian institutions. At a press conference, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputy on nationality issues presented a comprehensive report on joint official controls and housing conditions in Miskolc. Recommendations in the field of education, including the Ombudsman's examination of the teacher's career model. The main task of 2015 was to tackle the refugee crisis. The report highlights that, in the exercise of parliamentary commissioners, both refugees and asylum seekers or persons who do not request them, but who leave their country for reasons of necessity, are clearly considered members of a group to be protected regardless of their legal status. In order to protect the fundamental rights of refugees, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has taken a number of measures; I would not mention this now, because this can be found in the report. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] A few comments. It is welcome that, in the midst of the government's xenophobic campaign, it has raised its voice to protect the human rights of asylum seekers. It is particularly welcome that the Ombudsman thanked civil society organisations assisting asylum seekers, who were memorably attacked by the government. The question is, what was the result of the investigation into Bicské's travel of asylum seekers? However, it is surprising that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has requested the Constitutional Court to interpret the Fundamental Law in the context of the EU decision on the relocation of asylum seekers between Member States. The issues raised are fairly consistent with the government's anti-quota campaign. The submission of the motion for a basic law interpretation is particularly surprising in the light of the fact that the Ombudsman does not show any particular activity in relation to submissions by the Constitutional Court. The Report 2,900 It refers to the ex post standard control initiative submitted in 2015. This is regrettable because only a quarter of the Ombudsman and the Members of Parliament can initiate ex post norm control. The report does not paint a pink picture of Hungary's social situation this time either, it realisticly depicts the increasingly unacceptable conditions. For example, on pages 123 and 124 of the report, we read: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the Commissioner's practice, social security or the right of health or the self-harm to the right to education are exceptional when examining individual complaints. There is a much more frequent indirect, metastatic violation of these rights because the fundamental procedural guarantees and principles of the rule of law are ignored by the public authority. At the same time, it is appropriate to present in a separate chapter the Ombudsman's inquiries and trends relating to the functioning of the service system for the provision and protection of certain social rights. In addition to the maladministration of individuals, the combination of social issues in a broader sense can highlight cases of greater, even systemic, concern. As regards the 2015 reference year, the trend is that not a small proportion of complaints were directly or indirectly related to the social situation of the complainants, their health status and the supply system, but could not examine the vast majority of them in the absence of a certain competence. Complaints continue to reveal persistent poverty processes, the re-production of vulnerability in another dimension, and the narrowing system of social policy is not able to provide real long-term help to improve the problems of people living below the minimum level of existence. The weakest still do not or may only have access to help and support. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think these are quite serious sentences in the report, and I would like to point out that I am already interested in the report of the President in 2016 because in 2016 the entire child protection system was destroyed by the Fidesz-KDNP government. The MSZP will continue to maintain criticisms of the new Ombudsman structure established by the Basic Act, in particular with regard to the criticisms expressed in relation to the removal of the autonomy of specialised ombudsmans and the liquidation of the Data Protection Supervisor's institution. It is welcome that the report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies gives a comprehensive picture of the situation of fundamental rights in Hungary and faithfully reflects the most serious problems of Hungarian society at present. I must also point out, I have already said, my fellow Members, that just as in the previous year, the MSZP will support the adoption of this report. I am pleased to be able to take part in this debate today, and not only because I could say these sentences, but I would like to draw the Ombudsman's attention to a local matter, and if you have the opportunity, I would ask you to open an inquiry into this matter, which we have not received an answer for in the fifth month, an insult to one of the citizens. I would like to read two articles, because the easiest thing is to read them, which have appeared in the news, and then I would like to tell the Ombudsman that if he can do something about it, I would very much like to thank him. [[12.00]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Desperately searching for the truth and the family of Mile Imre from Bishop's Lady. The 59-year-old man disappeared from Kátai Gábor Hospital in Karcagi, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, on April 9, five months ago, and has not given any sign of himself since. The relatives claim it's the hospital's responsibility to lose our loved one. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Imre was admitted to the hospital five months before the ominous day after she had drunkenly fallen on her bicycle. He had a skull fracture and a stroke. Since he had been in the hospital before for a drink, he was treated as a serious alcoholic, not with his basic injuries, but as a serious alcoholic and invested in psychiatric care at the hospital. During the months in the psych ward, the man was out of the building twice, usually under 24-hour supervision at the hospital. According to the family, he wasn't released on March 30th. "It was bone and skin," says his mother, "it was less than 45 kilograms; how could he escape from the hospital?" He was tied up at his feet, at his hands and even at his chest, but he wasn't dangerous to anyone. Even if he walked out of the hospital, he certainly didn't go far without money and papers, covered in diapers, wearing a T-shirt in that 5-degree cold. "There is Karcagon, dead somewhere in the border," says his mother. All he wants is to make sure that his son is dead. According to the family, the hospital's surveillance footage would tell us the truth, since the hospital's on camera, the camera system works for 24 hours, but no one's dealing with it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The missing's family filed a complaint against the hospital, the police are pushing him around: the Bishop's police handed it to Karcag, and Karcag gave it back to Bishop, and for the fifth month, we know nothing about where the patient might have disappeared to. If I may say so, the interesting thing about the case is that when the patient disappeared, the hospital was allowed to take Imre home that day. Unfortunately, that couldn't have happened, the patient's family couldn't have taken him home, and they haven't given them any information since. The hospital refuses to take note of the matter - so I can say - of the fact that they do not give information to the relatives, the police do not, and I ask the Commissioner to open an investigation on this matter. [[Dr. László Székely nods.]] And I'd also like to give you the papers I printed to help you with, and I'd like to thank you if we could get some information about what happened afterwards. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-09-13-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-13-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Teacher, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the previous case that my fellow Member Bangóné has raised, may I add that, for reasons of local concern, the interesting thing that is going to be given to the Commissioner is that, in addition to the fact that this can happen in a psychiatric hospital, and that we do not fully know where a patient's fate is. "Perhaps the violation of fundamental rights is, or may be, not only does the family not receive information about where their relatives are, but also the medical records to be issued to the family and the hospital refused to issue them. Thus, the infringement consists in the fact that, in the event of a disappearance, the next of kin, mother, brother, at his request, and not referring to the fact that there is a criminal case, the right to have a health record cannot be undermined or overruled by pending criminal proceedings. I think there's a crystal-clear violation of fundamental rights. Perhaps there was a similar case in which the Office had already dealt with the problems of non-acquaintance with the documentation. I believe that in this case, too, this is the reason why I have to deal with the case in some way with an own-initiative procedure, not only because a family has to find relief, but also because it is necessary to ensure the proper working order in health institutions, because we also see that as a health politician I experience a lot of times, and that the National Centre for Patient Rights and Documentation, OBDK, also has a lot of complaints about how difficult it is to have access to health care documents and information, and how different practices there are in some hospitals, of course, talking about anomalies that there are different photocopy fees, giving patients different pre-defined conditions to have access to these documents, even though this is an integral part of the right to health rights to receive information, information not only verbally, but also subsequently, or in connection with admissions, so that they have full health rights to patients. Therefore, in this context, I do believe that some kind of investigation should be carried out, while, of course, respecting the framework of the criminal proceedings initiated and respecting the possible administrative procedures which are in this regard, but which we do not need to advise on, the Office will act properly in these cases. For my part, I took into account the health-related activities of the Office, and I was particularly pleased that health and a health case were perhaps one of the biggest cases in the spotlight, and perhaps it brought to the office the highest visibility this year, this was the case of Merényi, which has otherwise become... - and several cases of the Merényi, if you like, which drew attention to the poor state of psychiatric care, which the profession has been expressing for a very long time, so it also drew attention to this poor state of affairs, so that the conditions experienced there not only triggered a need for change within the profession, but also the public was better informed about it. So here it rang and was combed together, thanks to the God, thanks to the publicity, the expectation of the profession, and it now rang with the expectations of the population, so it was good to see that this case was able to direct sufficient media attention to this problem with proper treatment. I think it is important to say that what my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre said is that there are areas where - and in this it must be selfish for a health politician and his own territory must pay more attention and ask for more attention - it is worth focusing on, and I have also sought out the office to deal with certain issues on my part. My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, mentioned very well that, for example, the previous operational system of the on-call in Budapest certainly contained a lot of issues that, in my view, concern health rights, but also human life rights, which need to be resolved and examined. Of course, due to a change in legislation, a different surgical system has been developed in the capital, which may serve the interests of the profession better, will serve the interests of the patients, but this system must also be monitored continuously, as the current system has been reorganized in such a way that certain hospitals are under unequal pressure. This may well be seen from the sickbeds and the allocated supply areas and population ratio that show that some hospitals are under enormous strain in on-call care in Budapest. For example, South Pest Hospital carries a heavy burden, the Péterfy Sándor Street Hospital carries a heavy burden, precisely because a large area, with a large population, their number of cases per bed is outlier and far beyond the hospital for each other. This will therefore require some kind of examination, precisely in order to ensure that these investigations, as they have already reached the State Secretary for Health in the Patical Care system and have been forced into action, will also be given some kind of feedback to the State Secretariat, and there will be some correction. This is not a purely political interest, and it is not a political interest at all, and the staff working in it also suggests that there should be some sort of compensation, if nothing else, then the State Secretariat will have to look at the reorganization of the territorial supply obligation in a different way, so as to make it an equal burden on hospitals. But my fellow Member has also rightly mentioned that gratuity money must also be dealt with seriously, because gratuity money is corruption in health care, and the current legislation has introduced a very uneven system in Hungary, where a certain part of the gratuity money can be used in full legal terms, this is the case where the head of the institution allows someone to grant an allowance to the medical staff who administer it not in advance, that is to say, after the benefit, but afterwards, not in advance, but in this case it is purely a criminal case. [[12.10]] In essence, this soft corrupt operating model of the gratuity money system has a very negative impact on access to healthcare. In itself, the phenomenon of gratuity money, its existence, its right to health, its right to access health care is completely ruined, and it can be seen that in a perfidious soft corrupt way it gives people the opportunity to receive more health care, less health care, and, in addition, that they are halfway on the ground of legality, and very often pay for care and care on the ground of illegality. So here we may need a comprehensive research or survey, not only of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, but a lot of people should look at how the current system of gratuity money could be cleaned up or how its current system could be made so that there are no permanent violations of fundamental rights or the deterioration of fundamental rights. We talked about an important pillar of patient protection, the announcements that patients are making. It is obviously correct to note in the report that the decrease in the number of notifications to the Ombudsman is directly proportional to the increase in OBDK. In a public interest request for data, I asked how they had evolved, and it was nice to see, on the one hand, that OBDK had found its place in the system and had worked with an increasing number of notifications, worked with an increasing number of cases, which showed very serious increases, and, on the other hand, it was wrong to experience so many violations in health care, or so many violations. I often put this in that context, and it may also be a fundamental right issue, that more and more people are reaching for damages lawsuits, more and more cases of malpractice and more media coverage. I've been involved in lawsuits like this several times myself. It should be seen that in not many cases, the motivation of the client or even his legal representative in cash, often a spiritual motivation, often an informational, very ugly word, asymmetry brings these lawsuits and disputes to light. I think that there should be some progress in this too. This will, of course, be not only the task of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, but it will also be important for the legislators themselves to look at how, for example, we can discuss, in the debate on the upcoming civil order or in the possible amendments or options for moving forward, how, in the case of malpractice lawsuits, as in a specific type of damages lawsuits, we can actually bring these lawsuits into action and how, by the way, the problems between patients, health institutions, will be properly resolved and effectively directed in the right direction. Obviously, we are now beginning to think about what will be needed in the civil procedure debate, but I would like to point out to the Commissioner that this problem will also be particularly worthwhile. By the way, it is very good that you dealt with pharmacy duty during 2015 and took it into your field of activity, and, after all, a very good overview, a very good report has been made, which encouraged the system to take some action in the unsolving of the last 25 years at the pharmacy. However, we have again stopped halfway here, because, by autumn 2015, according to the recommendations, legislation has been adopted which will provide for an opportunity to ensure that the on-call service is properly distributed, i.e. according to the appropriate territorial distribution and appropriate, hopefully due consideration, precisely in order to ensure that the rights of the undertakings included therein to the freedom of undertaking and to competition are adequately balanced. However, the government has forgotten one thing beyond the legislation, and this is the way in which the implementing regulations and implementation are implemented, because the fact is that it has been almost winter since the autumn of 2015 and when we adopted this amendment, the issue has been on the same spot since then, and we do not see in the budget the budget coverage that would be a remuneration for the pharmacy, but we do not see a series of implementations. Therefore, regulations which specify exactly where they will be or where they may be, where they should be and under what compensation they should be on duty are not ready. Thus, we are in practice half-work, and as long as we are in half-work, there is an ongoing violation of fundamental rights that has been established in the report, so perhaps a follow-up to what we are in and why, according to my information, the unified will cannot pass through the legislative process that would reassure this process, the Secretary-General of State, the Hungarian Chamber of Pharmacy, the network pharmacies, so practically a complete professional consensus. Of course, I'm just saying this as information, or perhaps as a follow-up, which could repeatedly draw attention to the problem. And why I brought it up and why we're bringing up people in which we want to force an investigation, a report, or at least a report, is because we trust your activities. Exactly the last 2015 events, which appeared in the press and may have a positive impact on health care, although the news itself was negative, but the direction of change was positive, which follows from the news. That is precisely why we have come to you, that all the areas that you are looking at have been seen there to be some sort of movement, either towards a professional consensus or towards legislative solutions. That is why we would try, as I said, to re-examine or examine the on-call in Budapest, or, for example, to subject the examination of malpractice lawsuits to such an overall investigation, because we believe that progress is needed at these points, and that some kind of signal, a signal from a reliable source, is very necessary for the legislator, whether it be the legislation and Parliament, or even the legislation of the regulation, to the ministries and secretaries of state. That is why we are asking for increased attention in the area of health, especially because I believe that this is perhaps the only area of law that, although all areas of law are under development, but also in terms of health development, technology, modernisation and expansion, this is an area that is still under progressive development of law and, moreover, a much more intensive area of development, not only technologically, but also in relation to legal and other fundamental rights problems that create new disputes. Therefore, in these areas, the task of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the Commissioners, is perhaps particularly important. It is therefore of particular importance to address this, and I hope that the reports on health institutions and care that will be carried out will also come up again in the 2016 report. I think we have defined those areas, I do not want to define a working order, nor do I wish to give any instructions, but we have given some examples on which we can start, either from local examples, the Karcag and partly from Bishops' Lady case, or these great general challenges that we still have to deal with. I wish you good work for this year, and hopefully we can discuss them in the next year's report. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-13-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. Here you go.
u2016-09-13-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr Ombudsperson, My first sentences are thanks to your entire office and to all the people who work there, because I think they can really be the last bastions of the disadvantaged people they can still speak to, who they can ask for help from. I think that their work is very, very helpful to this social class and, by the way, to any resident in the country. Today, my fellow Members, Ildiko, and I have tabled a proposal for a resolution on the necessary measures to effectively prevent physical, psychological and sexual abuse of children, in which we have formulated the tasks of the government, which are the steps that must be taken. I think that this is a proposal for a resolution acceptable to everyone regardless of party standing, because we can see that it has not passed weeks in the past, so that we do not hear about terrible situations where children are being abused, whether within a family or outside the family, or in a foster home, or in any child in any child protection system. Therefore, after we see that the child protection system has fallen apart, it has been shattered over the past few years, we believe that this whole system needs to be rethinked. [[12.20]] After all, in many cases, in recent times, children who were in the eye of basic care have been in trouble, and the system itself has not been able to prevent them from being affected by the horrors that the news is about. Often the burdened, overloaded and underpaid social workers, family caregivers, patronesses, the modified but not properly functioning signalling system was not able to signal the problem. This is why it is outrageous in my view that the shortage of labour in this area is even greater than anywhere else, because social workers are so underpaid that they will not remain in the country, who has such skills, because they pay this area much better abroad. I think it's the kids who didn't do anything, they're the ones we really need to protect. In the past, when I was a child, the neighbor paid more attention to what children on the street were doing, but under today's poverty conditions, it can be seen, and because of the situation in society, people no longer listen to each other as they used to. And then here is the task of the basic supply system, that if neighbors and people no longer have the power to look out for the neighbor, then the supply system must put even more effort into having a sufficient number of professionals, qualified professionals, and properly paid for these people, because the soul they are working with often has little such overload. Abuse in child protection homes raises particular awareness of a serious situation, which is linked to a lack of skills and skills and to a lack of appropriate professional control. Mr Ombudsperson also drew attention to the need for skilled workers and to the need for appropriate programmes to support child protection professionals in the field of supervision, mental hygiene. Nor can it be ignored the fact that the government is not doing everything it can to curb domestic violence. This is demonstrated by the fact that the Hungarian Parliament still refuses to ratify the so-called Istanbul Convention of the European Council adopted in 2011. In recent years, the system of child protection has been substantially modified by the government on several points. The system of basic care and specialized care has also been transformed. Thanks to the former, family support and child protection services are only combined, and the various tasks and competences have been deployed to district centres, raising a number of concerns about the quality of professional work. The problem is that this will only really show its significance in the next period of time, that it has been transferred to the district centers. I think we really need to rethink this system. We have therefore presented our proposal for a resolution with a positive intention, and I really think that it must be acceptable to everyone, regardless of party standing, to help children. Several foster parents have brought up the problem that they really, really like to do this, they do it from the heart, enthusiastically and 24 hours a day, seven days a week. They often find it hard for them to read the official papers and see that they work eight hours a day every week. If they were only working as foster parents for eight hours, it would be a real problem, since a parent or a lot of children knows that this is not an eight-hour job a day. Therefore, it would only be a spiritual surplus if it were not in the papers that they were doing this work eight hours a day, which is not a job, but really comes from the inside to most of these people. All our respect is theirs, I think. For these reasons, we have presented this proposal for a resolution in order to effectively prevent physical and psychological sexual abuse in different places and ways. We believe it is essential for the government to review the system of child protection care and to submit a report to the Parliament on this. I think we need to talk about this. I am very sorry that so few fellow Members are sitting in this Chamber today. I am sorry that we are not talking about this much more often, much deeper. Because I really think that when a child is born, it's not our fault, it's our responsibility, it's our responsibility, it's our responsibility to help them live their lives, to help them have every chance to live a normal life as adults. I think it would be good for the world to come back, not only for professional care, but also for neighbours, to have the patience and time to look after children in their environment again. It only takes a certain prosperity in which people feel that they must not only pay attention to their daily livelihoods, but because they have time, they have patience to pay attention to others. To do this, I think we need the help of the government, and I think that this proposal for a resolution, which is being tabled today, could be of great help to everyone, but most of all to children and professionals, whom we once again thank very much for their work. Thank you.
u2016-09-13-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Csaba Gyüre, from the Jobbik Group, is next to speak again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-13-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I missed a few things that didn't fit into the 15-minute window of my speech as a speaker. I'd like to add these. Mr Ombudsperson's report also contains a section on the task of giving an opinion in the event of legislative changes. They are asking for the opinion of your office in advance and quantifying that you have issued a strong opinion on 257 draft legislative acts. I think this is very important, because the examination of the office concerns an important part of society, on the basis of which it is essential that they give a preliminary opinion on the legislation to be born in this respect. What I don't think is right in this regard - but it's obviously not their fault, and I'm trying to draw attention to it in case you find a hearing - is the problem that was also indicated at the committee meeting that the office usually has 24-48 hours to put such a legislative opinion on the desk of one of the ministries. I think that no one obviously thinks seriously that, in addition to his other activities, in 24-48 hours, either the head of the office, his deputies or any of his colleagues will make a serious, professionally sound opinion, taking into account practical experience, in the form of an opinion. I'm telling you this to see if you can get to the ears who set this deadline when a department sends out the material. Make sure you have more time. Unfortunately, the problem is that this is a practice, I hear it everywhere where it is sent out for an opinion that it is available for two or three or four days, for example, in connection with the draft law of the administrative courts, there were three or four days available for the profession, and also during the legislative break. I think that, unfortunately, the legislator believes that what they will write is irrelevant, at least that is the conclusion I draw from the fact that such a short deadline is granted. I consider another aspect very important, which I have not mentioned before, but it is included in the Ombudsman's report. My fellow Member, Mr Staudt, has already mentioned it and the importance of ex post standard control was also mentioned at the committee meeting. We have already indicated in previous debates that individual Members of Parliament no longer have the right that not only the Members of Parliament, but all citizens, have had the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court for ex post control. This is no longer the case; at least 50 Members of Parliament must be signed together in order to achieve such a thing. This is obviously very difficult, and we also know that only one faction has the number for this, and this is the Fidesz faction, and all the others must work together, and at least two opposition factions are needed to produce a petition for ex post standard control. We have already indicated that we want the office to be more active in this regard. We did not say that we should have more than a few dozen submissions, but that, in our view, the present should be multiple, because there is a need for it, in many cases there is also a flaw in the legislation, which would require control of the norm. I think it is obviously very difficult to take on such a task when, in one year, there has been a 50 percent increase in turnover and it is difficult to expect five times as many submissions to be made, but I think that somewhere we should find the mid-rate to make a strong increase in these numbers. [[12.30]] I was pleased to read in the report that, if I understood correctly, the complaints at the prison were examined, 99.9 percent, if I saw correctly, the complaints were rejected, so it was okay, the detention facility provided the conditions that were necessary and the many complaints were not justified. As the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, unfortunately, is not in that position, but in that it is true that serious criminals who commit serious crimes are subject to a claim for damages of thousands of euros, because they claim that they had to spend this time in circumstances that are not worthy of man. I was pleased to read in this report that, according to the Ombudsman's report, these circumstances do not correspond with the practice of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, but that there were no valid complaints here. There's one more thing I'd like to discuss. I was pleased to read - unfortunately, the migrant situation has brought this - that cooperation in Visegrád is also being achieved between the ombudsmans, so such an international exchange of experience or cooperation is also being achieved here. I think that any such cooperation can only be useful when sharing experience with one another. That's about what I wanted to say, I wanted to add, which was not in my speech as a speaker. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-13-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the joint general debate is closed. It is now possible to close the report or the authors of the proposal for a decision. First, I will ask Mr László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Of course; there, here and here are at your disposal. [[Dr. László Székely: I don't know how to turn this on.]] Room service's about to help. You have the floor, please. [[There's no sound. Dr. László Székely: Allow me to go up to the pulpit.]] They're bringing in a hand mike. [[Dr. László Székely goes up to the pulpit.]]
u2016-09-13-67	Thank you very much. The truth is, I wasn't originally prepared for your closing thoughts, but it was a very inspiring morning that I had spent with you. Thank you very much for the recognition part of the comments. I used to think that you would have to die to hear so much praise from yourself lying on a funeral home. Thank you very much for the criticisms, because these are very important feedback for us and define our work. It even occurred to me that, in fact, we could have this kind of mutual discussion more often, and we have already been dealt with. Not that it's not enough, but thank you very much. I won't react to everything, don't worry. One of the things I sensed is Kaposvár and Zita Special Children's Home. Let me answer that, this was an OPCAT scan. OPCAT has a thousands of pages of protocol material that determines what to do with the national preventive mechanism when it appears at such a detention site. I can't change that. I didn't ask for OPCAT, the office got it. This is the fulfilment of an obligation arising from an international treaty. This hundreds, or thousands of pages of protocol could describe exactly what I have to do. And if I do not do this or not do it satisfactorily, as we are expected to do in Geneva, then the Republic of Hungary, sorry, Hungary or its government will be condemned by the UN Human Rights Committee. So here I have no discretion as to what should be included in the report. You have to imagine this as a snapshot. On that day, you experienced this. If what we have written is not true, then, of course, we can be severely criticised. But how we do it, I can't control it. So I can't put positives in it. I also disagree, if I may, Mr President, that there is no empathy in the monitoring group. Yes, you do. Well, we interview the employees themselves, ask them what problems they have. It was said here from someone's mouth that we were also looking into whether or not they needed the help of a supervisor, a psychologist. We will look at their working conditions and draw attention to the fact that, under these circumstances, they will endanger the performance of the task if we do not improve it. So I must say that there is a strong empathy, precisely because we are in solidarity, and we know how difficult it is for them to do their job. Constitutional interpretation. Well, I want a constitutional interpretation if there's something I don't understand in the Constitution. This has happened once before. I do not believe that this is an end in itself, and there is some quantitative measure of the rule of law as to how many times an ombudsman asks for a basic interpretation of the law. In relation to the issue of foreign exchange creditors, and in fact I would like to end it, I remember that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly taken a stand, and there is no open question left. As I recall. So thank you again very much. I feel the increased expectation of my person and of my activities. Let me warn you of one thing. You have elected me Commissioner of Fundamental Rights, not messiah. So I don't have the Philosopher's Stone, I don't know what good governance is, I just have to keep a mirror. I have to keep a mirror, and that's my job, which I will continue to do in the future. Thank you again very much for this meaningful morning.
u2016-09-13-68	Thank you very much, officer. I will ask President György Rubovszky of the Judicial Committee if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, please, Mr. President.
u2016-09-13-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would only like to make one criticism of what has been said in this debate. A significant part of the debate was about the year 2016, which goes beyond our agenda today. Another significant part of the debate criticised the government's work, not the ombudsman's activity. That is, of course, opposition law, and I have no objection to that. I would like to say that I have not heard any criticisms that would have shaken the motion for a resolution before the Justice Committee. I remain unaltered in asking this House to accept the report and also adopting the parliamentary resolution, preferably without change. Here, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Ombudsman, his deputies and the entire office, on behalf of the committee and myself, for their excellent work. Thank you for listening.
u2016-09-13-70	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. It is now time to begin the general debate on the bill on civil procedure. The government referral is T/11900. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 40-minute time frame, who will tell the expo from here on the platform. We'll wait for Minister to rise to the platform. [[It's happening.]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-13-71	Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Procedural law is also a servant and stepchild of substantive law, since Parliament and the public have traditionally focused their attention on material law institutions. Yet the standards of substantive law are made alive by the procedural provisions behind the scenes. This was the case even in the age of Werbőczy, who, because of his importance, included procedural provisions in the Code, which thus became known under the name "Three Book" in respect of regulated areas. [[12.40]] The creation of our first modern civil order is related to Sándor Plosz, Act I of 1911. On 16 November 1910 the rapporteur of the bill was the lawyer himself, who began his exposé by saying that he was in a difficult situation when he had to justify the need for a bill, which would finally come to Parliament after 42 years of waiting. In the debate on the proposal, his contemporaries praised the presentation with the following words:. The established state of law, the reliability of the delivery of justice, was not only in the interest of the law-seeking public and not only of professional lawyers, but also a measure of a nation's culture and a strong guarantee of the development of economic life. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The 1911 Civil Procedure fully enforced the 19th Civil Procedure. On the other hand, it has created modern cooperation between the court and the parties. According to the unanimous judgment of posterity, it became the most successful European code of law in the age of Law I of 1911, the solutions of which were examined in several countries and considered as a model. Today, when I presented a draft of a new civil order before this House, I considered it important to commemorate a law adopted in the same House more than a hundred years ago and its founder, Sándor Plos. The 1911 Code was repealed with effect from 1 January 1953 by the civil order still in force in the Rákosi era. The bill was submitted to Parliament on 29 May 1952. The author was the Minister of Justice of the Dobi Government, Erik Molnár. The proposal was adopted by the House that day without debate. This code was intended to imitate the Soviet Civil Procedure Code of 1923. The year 1952 was the year III. The creation of a law was essentially judge-centred and introduced a procedure to undermine the autonomy of the parties. The citizen's personal and material disputes - in line with the paternalist, etatistic view of the era - were in front of the court's care and the guardian of the prosecution's eyes. This meant that the parties' right of disposal was under the control of the court and the prosecutor's office. Of course, the 1952 - year III in force today. Law no longer resembles its state of acceptance. Even before and after the change of regime, many novels amended and supplemented the law. However, this law is no longer able to provide modern answers to the challenges of the age and, based on the experience of the past decades, it has been necessary to rethink the effectiveness of the procedures. That is why I consider it important to present today the foundations of the new civil procedural law. It is no exaggeration to say that this bill comes before this House after decades of waiting, and we can almost say 42 years here. The need for the creation of a new civil code of procedure is governed by the Government under 1267/2013. has decided to adopt a government decision. Then the groundwork could begin, then the adoption of the concept and, finally, codification itself. Thus, the draft was drawn up after several distinct sections. On 30 June 2014, I received from Professor János Németh, Mr Emeritus, a possible concept concerning the draft civil procedure prepared by the then editorial committee, which we were able to make excellent use of as a working document. This decision-preparation, hundreds of pages of work paper, outlined problems with scientific thoroughness and presented possible proposals for solutions for the Ministry of Justice. This work was also able to contribute significantly to the adoption by the Government of the regulatory concept prepared by the Ministry of Justice on 14 January 2015. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Justice is a purely profiled legal department, it has taken responsibility for the development of civil order and for the management of codification itself, taking into account, of course, previous working papers. I have appointed a ministerial commissioner for the management of the work Zsuzsa Wopera, who is also a professor at the University of Miskolc, Faculty of Law. Under the leadership of Zsuzsa Wopera, extremely prepared and dedicated staff of the Ministry of Justice have done outstanding work in order to present today's draft civil order. But I also thank those who helped with the codification work of the Ministry of Justice; in particular, in 14 working committees, more than a hundred excellent lawyers, judges, lawyers, prosecutors, notaries, scientific representatives, who often helped codification with expert materials within a short period of time. István Varga, a university professor coordinating the working committees, will also thank Professor Imre Szabó, who later joined the work and chaired the editorial committee. Dear House, Let me then talk about the goal itself and its implementation. The concept set out as the main regulatory objective the systemic implementation of litigation, litigation, the establishment of procedural rules to promote reconciliation between the parties, the introduction of a split set of lawsuits, the establishment of procedural rules to ensure litigation concentration, the imposition of mandatory legal representation in court proceedings, the establishment of domestic rules for associated litigation and the exploitation of the possibilities of modern information technology in the new lawsuits. The concept has already decided to include the rules on administrative jurisdiction in a separate law, regardless of its organisational framework. It's a separate law, and it's being prepared. The concept has also decided that the rules of procedure for labour litigation continue to be governed by civil procedure and that a well-functioning booth system remains in practice in labour litigation. Even during the development of the concept, we paid great attention to the analysis of foreign solutions and the examination of the integration of best regulation into the Hungarian legal system. The bill provides solutions similar to certain procedural rules of the German, Austrian, Swiss and Slovenian Civil Procedure Laws. In the last 25 years, the civil order of most former socialist countries has been renewed, or new laws of procedure have been adopted, or a comprehensive series of amendments have been made. The Baltic States, Slovenia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Russia and many Western European countries have renewed their civil order, including Spain, Switzerland. The main reason for this is that old litigation solutions have not been able to respond adequately to the challenges generated by socio-economic changes in recent decades, and neither have we. In view of the fundamental characteristics of the bill, it continues to bear the marks of the continental system of procedure rather than the adversarial system typical of the Anglo-Saxon countries. In addition to the fact that the bill places great emphasis on the parties' right of disposal, the judge also plays an extremely active role in deciding the dispute. The role of the judge is therefore not limited to making a decision, but, as a result of the new rules on financial management, it can contribute to the definition of the framework of the dispute and help to eliminate obvious enforcement errors. In this respect, too, we had to take into account the relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court. On the basis of the concept, the drafting of the norm was started, which was preceded by a three-month preliminary substantive professional-social consultation, in which the proposal was consulted and supported by various professional bodies and universities. Since the adoption of the concept, we have presented the proposal at more than 20 professional events and debates throughout the country. I myself have attended quite a few of these events, and we have tried to answer all the questions. The main committee set up in that Government Decision considered the draft appropriate for discussion, but proposed that corrections be made, which the editorial committee set up by the Minister of Justice then complied with. [[12.50]] In the framework of the administrative consultation of the proposal, the submission was also discussed with the courts, the President of the National Court of Justice, the Kúria, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the professional organisation of the relevant law practitioners, the Hungarian Bar Association, the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries, the Hungarian Chamber of Experts on Justice. Thank you for having already welcomed the submission of the draft. On 20 July 2016, the Government discussed the proposal and decided to refer it to Parliament. I would like to address the main innovations of the bill and its planned positive effects on the resolution of private disputes. Let's look at the structure and structure of the proposal. The structure of the draft is adapted to our lawsuit traditions, the largest structural unit is the part, including chapter, chapter, section, paragraph. Each section has an address, which helps both the interpretation and the follow-up of the procedure, reflecting the content of the provisions contained therein, so the drafting technique of the proposal is adapted to the Ptk. The proposal consists of 11 parts, 47 chapters, 633 paragraphs. Let's look at the provisions that accelerate the procedure first. The aim of Socialist civil litigation was to enforce material justice, as the rapporteur's representative referred to in the parliamentary exposé of the bill: the court must not only act on the basis of the data and facts provided by the parties, but must enter into the real essence of each legal relationship and seek to detect the real rights and mutual relations of the parties to the lawsuit. This approach is alien to both the Plos civil order of 1911 and the spirit of the bill. The boundaries of the court's decision are governed by the parties' right to order, and the procedural law must provide a framework for effective enforcement. To quote Géza Magyary: the purpose of the lawsuit is to defend against the injured or endangered private-law right, or possibly only the vulnerable private-law interest. In line with this, the Government Resolution 1267/2013 also set the objective of ensuring the effective enforcement of substantive rights by the new civil order. It was therefore a specific legislative objective to establish rules for both first instance and redress procedures and special actions in such a way as to ensure the conditions for an effective and concentrated trial for all seekers, whether they act with or without legal representatives. This is guaranteed, among other things, by the following main legal institutions, procedural rules: a split set of laws: a more predictable process, a more predictable procedure, a clear approach for both parties to do in each procedural course, which, if they fail, cannot be replaced at a later stage; structured submissions: the content of the most important submissions - an application, a counterclaim, a counterclaim - is precisely defined in the proposal, thus helping to concentrate the documents on the relevant issues; increased requirements for the content of the application and the defence: ensuring that the complete file is available as soon as possible; forms for assistance to the party acting without a legal representative: this avoids the lack of time needed to prolong the case; the preparation of the trial along the proper balance of written and orality. The requirement to submit a counterclaim or a counterclaim or set-off in writing ensures the effectiveness of the lawsuit. Similarly, it ensures that the court order against the non-defensive defendant can be issued without a hearing. A change of action and a restriction on the submission of a counterclaim is of paramount importance for the avoidance of litigation: the main rule is only in the course of litigation, later not; the requirement of mandatory legal representation only in the forensic proceedings: this ensures the expertise that accelerates the handling of complex cases. The legal institution of financial litigation shall establish an active duty of participation in the court, which shall facilitate the enforcement of the parties and may contribute to the swift and focused availability of the case. Raising the mandatory order for payment threshold reduces the amount of litigation cases to HUF 3 million, so cases can be dealt with faster and shorter deadlines and negotiating intervals. Here we have also examined, among other things, what percentage of the HUF 3 million payment order is being sued today, and we can safely see that the threshold is being raised, since most of the payment orders procedures are still completed below HUF 3 million. We also considered it important to extend electronic contact. Consider the expectations at the principle level. The basic principles of the proposal reflect the most important messages that determine the spirit of the law. I would like to highlight three of these. The parties' obligation to support the procedure, with which the proposal intends to express the parties' increased procedural responsibility at the level of principle in order to bring forward the dispute brought before the court. Supporting the parties to the proceedings is one of the main objectives of the law, the implementation of the concentration of lawsuits. The second is the imposition of a requirement to tell the truth in respect of the facts made by the party. In Sándor Plosz's 1910 exposé, he emphasized it as one of the novs of the bill, according to which: "Lying in the trial is prohibited under penalty. A person who, despite his better knowledge, is making manifest false facts about the case, or who, despite his better knowledge, is obviously falsely denying or bringing false evidence, may be fined. In the bill, too, there is emphasis on imposing the obligation to declare the truth, as is the case for the solutions of foreign codes, such as the German, Austrian, Slovenian law, which is also justified by the social costs of the civil suit, i.e. the emphasis on the party's responsibility in terms of the reality of the facts and factual statements it has made. The proposal also requires a new approach to the role of the court, which, at the principle level, appears in the name of the intervention activity, and in the course of the trial, is reflected in the material conduct. One of the characteristics of the proposal is the strengthening of the role of the court, the strengthening of judicial activity in the form of a substantive framework for the dispute, which can be seen in all European codified lawsuits. Allow me to have a word with you about the split lawsuit. The most important innovation of the proposal is the introduction of a split litigation structure, which was introduced in Law I of 1911 and which is excellently functioning abroad. This means that the procedure is divided into two stages, both function and time. In Sándor Plósz's exposé, he named this solution as an important innovation against other lawsuits, distinguishing between the so-called stage of formation of the case and the merit of the profession, where the presentation of the action, the merit of the defence and the contention of the contention of the lawsuit are subject to the development of the lawsuit, after which the relevant course follows. The proposal also applies this split-up, which works successfully in foreign lawsuits which can be regarded as sample tax, such as German, Swiss and French procedural law, and the newly codified European codes are also preferred to apply, for example, Slovenian, Croatian and Czech lawsuits. It is proposed that the procedure should be divided into two stages, the course of litigation and the relevant negotiation. In this model, there is a strong emphasis on the law firm. This is where the content and framework of the dispute is defined. This is where the parties make their legal claims, statements of fact, motions for evidence, which are recorded by closing the course of trial - so we can say that the lawsuit is being recorded - and the main rule is that so far the parties have the opportunity to change their statements of fact, claims, counterclaims, to present a further motion of evidence. The most important event of this stage in court is the trial, which was also highlighted in Plos's draft, and which, in his view, makes the division of the two proceedings even more acute. In addition to orality, writtenness is given a greater role in the course of legal proceedings. [[13.00]] This solution was praised by the contemporaries in the Parliamentary debate of the Plos proposal, according to which the proposal does not adhere closely to rigid orality, but creates a proper link between orality and writtenness when it pushes writtenness into a preparatory role. The proposal also seeks to strike a balance between orality and writtenness, where writtenness plays a major role in the preparation of the case. The proposal also allows for the termination of the litigation course in simpler disputes or, in the case of defendant recognition, without a trial being held, but the parties may also request that the hearing be held. The most important legal effect of closing proceedings is the preclusion, according to which, as a general rule, it is not possible to change the action and the defence after the termination of the course of proceedings, to submit further evidence and motions. The purpose of the restriction is, on the one hand, to allow the court and the opposing party to consider the framework and content of the dispute permanently fixed at a certain point, and, on the other hand, only the procedure of proof and the substantive decision should be taken on the basis of fixed claims. Another reason for the restriction is, on the one hand, to prevent the trial from going on and, on the other, to rule out surprise judgments. The role of the relevant negotiating profession is also changing. It aims to ensure that evidence is carried out within the framework laid down for the dispute identified in the course of legal proceedings, which, as a result of the preparation, is much more targeted and that the substance of the case can be decided earlier. Let's look at the renewal of the rules of jurisdiction. The proposal adapts the rules of competence to the four-level judicial body, maintains the two first-level input levels and gives the court general powers following a number of European solutions. This means that the court has jurisdiction over all lawsuits which the law does not refer to the jurisdiction of the district court. It is important to point out that this does not lead to a significant shift in the way in which the case is addressed, but rather is important in terms of dogmatic consistency, because the proposal models a uniform set of lawsuits for the court, complex cases, and defines the derogations and facilitations to be applied in district court cases. I also consider it appropriate to note here that the proposal makes mandatory representation of the party in the forensic procedure a main rule. The reason for this is that, in recent decades, civil disputes have become significantly more complicated than before, so on the plaintiff's part, well-founded claim enforcement and, on the defendant's side, effective defence usually requires legal expertise that makes the party's proceedings indispensable with the assistance of a legal expert. I note that 80-85 percent of the cases before the court are still being dealt with by a legal representative representing the parties. Let's take a look at the uniform lawsuit. The proposal introduces a single set of lawsuits, modelled on the General Competent Tribunal. A uniform set of lawsuits means that lawsuits are complicated in accordance with the same procedural rules before the court and before the court. At district court level, if the party does not have a legal representative, a number of rules to facilitate enforcement will be introduced, such as the possibility of using forms, submissions, statements orally, against which the proposal raises lower expectations, and the party will be assisted by a wider judicial financial management. The proposal summarises clearly, in a separate chapter, the derogations applicable to the district court. A few words about proof. The proposal reforms the rules of proof on several points. It addresses the problem of an emergency of proof at a legal level. The need for proof provides a regulatory solution to abnormally informationasymmetric situations where the party's opponent has the relevant evidence, e.g. in a medical malpractice case, the defendant has the documents necessary to prove that it is capable of making the evidence more difficult or possibly impossible to prove. The legal consequences of the emergency of proof, as proposed, are to establish the existence of the fact if the judge does not have doubts in this respect. The proposal settles the use of unlawful means of proof in court. This problem is not new. Even in the course of the legal codification of the 1980s, it was already considered that the consequences of personal data acquisition in evidence, as László Gáspárdy said, should be resolved, but as the technique progressed, the regulation of the use of unlawful or used means of proof in court became even more relevant. The Hungarian judicial practice has long tried to deal with this particular issue of interest, but the proposal has provided a way to establish legal regulation that cannot be delayed. The proposal sets out in general that unlawful means of proof cannot be used in the case. The reason for this is that there are no rules in the rule of law that encourage seekers to act illegally. The proposal therefore states that it is absolutely impossible to use evidence obtained or produced in breach of, or threatened with, the right to life and physical integrity. In other cases, the court shall decide on the admissibility of the evidence by discretion. In this context, it should consider the priority of the party's reasonable private interest in proof or the protection of the other party's right of personality. The assessment shall also take into account the extent to which the acquisition and use of the evidence is unlawful. The acceptance of an infringing means of proof may be justified if the party cannot prove his claims in another way. If the court accepts the unlawful evidence, this in itself shall not exempt the party from criminal, criminal and civil liability. The most important innovation of the legislation on proof is the conceptual renewal of expert evidence. It is proposed that a party may provide the opinion by three means: the agent's private expert, an expert seconded in other proceedings or an expert seconded in court. The three roads are not available at the same time and must be chosen by the evidentiary party. Its choice may be influenced by its own financial circumstances, its ability to sue, the nature of the specific issue and the circumstances of the case. The institutionalisation of private experts' evidence removes the existing, suing practice that the private professional opinion was not submitted to the main evidence, but to dissuade and disprove the professional competence of the seconded expert. The authorized expert is only a person who can be ordered by the court. The rules governing experts to ensure impartiality and a high level of professionalism, competence, training, disciplinary or criminal law apply to the delegate as well as to the seconded expert. The opinion of the private expert cannot be one-sided, as the proposal requires the private expert to draw up his opinion not only on the basis of the information provided by the client but also on the basis of an assessment of the opposition's statements. Otherwise, your opinion will not be used as an opinion in the case, only as a statement from the party. A few words about redress. The proposal aims to make the rules on litigation more effective. In this respect, the draft aims at achieving a twofold objective: the right to redress should be properly enforced, but the rules of regulation, following the rules of the tight schedule and of the first instance procedure which assumes increased party activity, should not give rise to litigation proceedings. To this end, the proposal sets out the scope of the second instance court's jurisdiction to override, in relation to which it determines the binding content of the appeal and states that, in principle, the second instance court shall decide on the appeal without hearing. But if the parties ask, of course there is a trial. The proposal also re-regulates the circumstances giving rise to the repeal of the lawsuits. The essence of this is that non-absorption procedural offences may be examined and taken into account by a court of second instance only if one of the parties has referred to them not of its own motion. Under the rules of the review as a special remedy, the so-called licensing system will be introduced in all property cases where the value contested in the review request does not exceed HUF 30 million. In such cases, the Curia may authorise the review, taking into account legal unit aspects. A few words about collective enforcement. The proposal proposes to regulate two forms of collective enforcement: lawsuits in the public interest and associated litigation. [[13.10]] Today, a number of laws are still in place to authorise public actions, and the proposal sets out a procedural framework for them. The institution of associated litigation is completely new to the Hungarian lawsuit. This form of collective enforcement is effective because it reduces the unit cost of enforcement. However, the proposal does not allow associated litigation in respect of any validated law, only in disputes relating to consumer contracts or in labour lawsuits. Think of it as consumer protection if someone has a claim of HUF 20,000. Not alone, but if a lot of people come together, it may be possible to set up a more serious lawsuit, and someone will join it, but they won't sue for 20,000 forints alone. The reason for this reduction is that it is typically only in consumer and labour lawsuits. The reason for the reduction is that it is typically consumer and labour disputes in which legal protection would fail without the efficiency benefits of collective enforcement, as individual litigation is unlikely to take place. The associated action is a collective enforcement form where at least ten decisions and express statements by the right holders form the basis for the assessment of claims in a single action. The associated lawsuit thus implements the so-called opt-in model. In this model, the plaintiffs are personally known and identified. While the proposal puts a public interest suit into judicial jurisdiction, it may fall within the jurisdiction of a district court or tribunal either on the basis of the associated court value or on the basis of the subject-matter of the case. The proposal should extend the principle of social justice laid down in the Fundamental Law in the first instance, allowing the single judge to refer the case to a three-member council in collective enforcement proceedings, in the event of the special complexity of the case and the special social importance of the associated case. Dear House, I am sure that, in 2016, as in 1910 Sándor Plósz, we can say that the codification of the Rules of Procedure is an important and urgent judicial need. The proposal drawn up by the Ministry of Justice and presented to the Honourable Parliament is a highly widely agreed, well prepared professional material. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this work, I repeat, those hundreds of people, and I ask for this discussion and its adoption from the Honourable Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-13-72	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame by group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Róbert Répássy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who will give his speech in its place. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert stands up, buckles up his microphone, adjusts his tie.]] We'll wait for the mike to be installed by the congressman. Thank you. Tie's fine. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-09-13-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, gentlemen and ladies, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, The renewal of Hungary's legal system, which started in 2011 with the adoption of the new Fundamental Law, has arrived at another important stage. Following the adoption of the great laws governing the administration of justice, such as the laws on the organisation of courts and the status of judges, the laws on the prosecution and the new criminal code and the new civil code, civil proceedings and civil order will now be renewed. What is the significance of the bill before us? The technical and scientific significance of the proposal has been discussed in detail by the rapporteur minister, and I would like to talk about the importance of the proposal as a legal policy or, if you will, of social policy. The adoption of the proposal before us can make a significant contribution to the efficiency of justice, since the effectiveness of justice is the key to the rule of law, because the rule of law does not work without effective justice. It is easy to see that citizens' faith in the rule of law and even in the state itself and its institutions will be shaken without a well-functioning justice system. A person who cannot find his truth in court, or who is able to assert his rights only in endless proceedings, feels that the community of which he is a part has failed him. It is no exaggeration to say that a good civil procedural law is closely linked to the state of democracy, the satisfaction of citizens with regard to the institutions of democracy. Hungary's Fundamental Law guarantees everyone that its affairs will be dealt with impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time. It is also included in the Fundamental Law that everyone has the right to be dealt with by an independent and impartial court at a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time. The proposal before us fully meets these constitutional requirements and is therefore welcomed and supported by the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group. What innovations I would like to draw the attention of this House and the attention of the public, which, of course, was also presented by the Minister, but I believe that these new solutions must be highlighted in this respect, in terms of the efficiency of the judiciary, in terms of speeding up the procedure. It is an important objective to adapt and establish rules for both first instance and redress procedures and special lawsuits in such a way as to ensure the conditions of effective litigation for all seekers, whether they act with or without legal representatives. One of the most important means of this, as the Minister pointed out, is the concentrated trial or the concentration of the lawsuit, which is to say, in this House, that the judge must be put in a position where the procedural law must lay down rules so that the judge can decide, as far as possible, on a substantive trial in his case before the citizens. So once again, the importance of the new rules is that, of course, after proper written and even oral preparation, the main question of the case may be decided at a hearing, the judgment being given. To this end, the proposal introduces the so-called split-option structure, which requires, above all, greater involvement and greater responsibility from the parties, since in this structure of the case, it is a matter of weight when a person fails to submit his applications in time. However, the decision can now be made more quickly on the basis of the positions put forward by the parties, and therefore the proposal only allows for a narrow derogation from the preliminary statements and the pre-recorded positions. To this end, the proposal also contains a number of guidelines to put it this way - let us say, from the point of view of the law, of course, the guidance is synonymous with the legal obligation - and therefore contains a number of guidelines on what should be in the application or what should be in the defence. In cases where the parties do not act with a legal representative, these submissions may be submitted by means of a form, which is of great importance, since it makes clear to the judge and to the parties the subject of the proceedings, what the court must decide during the proceedings. A significant rule, a significant change, is that the court order against the non-defensive defendant can be issued in writing without trial, or, as I said, without trial, so a court order can be issued at an earlier stage. In this case, the trial will end relatively soon. Let us assume that all of this will be effective or effective after the defendant has actually been informed of the lawsuit against him. A change in demand, counterclaims, as I said, will be limited, narrowly permissible in these lawsuits. [[13.20]] As the Minister said, the judge will play a more active role in the case, and the judge will be more active in the new procedural law. The judge also partially assists the parties in revealing the subject matter of the case, the circumstances relevant for the decision, the judgment, and, of course, the judge has not only one information function, but also for himself, it clarifies the questions to be decided. And, of course, the judge also helps to determine what the parties must perform at that first substantive hearing, what they need to prove, what procedural acts they need to carry out in order to put the judge in a decision-making position. The new procedure requires more active behaviour and more responsible behaviour from all the parties involved in the procedure, but this, I might say, is natural, since we must assume that everyone in the procedure is interested in the delivery of the judgment. The legislator cannot assume that there are actors in the procedure who are not interested in making a meaningful decision, whether it is a party to the lawsuit, whether it is another party to the proceedings or whether it is a judge. So we cannot start from it, we must take this law of procedure in good faith, we expect good faith from everyone, because, let us say, deviance cannot be a general rule, or let us say that this bad faith cannot be a general rule; it cannot be the case for the legislator. The bill carries significant messages at the level of the principles, so that I should say so, so that the principles of the bill contain messages that are of crucial importance for the whole procedure, so that they can cover the whole procedure. This includes the increased responsibility that has already been mentioned. The Minister also mentioned the requirement of the obligation to tell the truth, which is obviously a valid principle, since it cannot be a full obligation to tell the truth, despite his own interests, no one can be forced to make a statement. This includes judicial activity, one of the above-mentioned principles, and I do not want to detail this, as I have just mentioned this. Dear House, In addition, the most important innovations can be found at all stages of the procedure, whether the introduction of general powers to the court or the district court powers, let us say, to become exceptional; they are all measures of the new bill that ensure the effectiveness of the procedure and ultimately the establishment of judicial proceedings within a reasonable time. It is also of great importance to the new rules of proof, as the Minister has just presented the new rules for the conceptual renewal of expert proof. Expert evidence is often the cause of cancer in these procedures, and in many cases the lengthening of procedures itself is the result of difficult expert proof or in some cases bad faith. Renewal of the bill - but I think that if someone has been watching the legislation of recent years, it can no longer be entirely new - collective demand enforcement, since collective demand enforcement has long been tried by the legislation after the change of regime. In this case, collective enforcement has been included in the bill in the form of public-interest litigation and associated litigation, which primarily protect the weaker party, let us say that these renewed procedural models can best be applied in disputes relating to consumer protection, consumer contracts and labour lawsuits. Dear House, So we are convinced that the new civil procedural law before us, the new civil order, fully complies with constitutional requirements, the letters and the spirit of the Fundamental Law, and can help the enforcement of citizens in a modern, new civil suit, which, as I have just said, contributes to the strengthening of the rule of law. That is why I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-13-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy, who is speaking on the stand. Congressman's on the stand. Here you go.
u2016-09-13-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In the beginning, and in the first place, I would like to resent, to a large extent, that the Minister left the room immediately after he had told his expo, so much he did not wait for the first speaker to begin his speech. He's probably so appreciative of Parliament, and that's how interested the individual factions are in the position of a civil order, a brand-new code. I think this is unacceptable and unusual in the Hungarian Parliament. However, I listened with interest to the Minister's list of how long, whom and how many rounds he had agreed on this bill. It is regrettable that the legislators have been left out of this circle, we have had plenty of weeks from the submission of a study of the bill, but, of course, we have tried to prepare for this debate, which, of course, cannot be complete. When it comes to a new code, one of our most important laws, as speakers of the largest opposition group, I believe it is right to address some of the issues of principle that it sees or misses, whether within a code or in its legal environment. And first of all, we need to address the social environment whose rules are largely governed by this code. In the light of these, it is only possible to decide whether certain provisions are eligible or not. There are provisions that are right in themselves, but not in this social environment. I recognise the role of law in shaping society, but I can primarily interpret it as substantive rules and much less procedural. I believe that procedural law should define the optimal way to apply substantive law, taking into account social reality, the financial opportunities of society and public authorities, cultural traditions and technical development. In my view, this proposal does not comply with this point in many places. On the basis of the direction of development of the world, I can endorse, for example, the transition to electronic administration. However, after consulting practitioners, I have to say that the way in which this is done by law is unlikely to be sufficiently thought-out. We have discussed a number of laws together in recent years here in Parliament, which forced e-affection, and then the rejection of the entry into force of the same laws, some of them several times, and their amendments to their content. So, the direction is fine, but the proposal does not take into account reality. And, of course, there are good and forward-looking provisions in the proposal. The codification of judicial practice and scientific results is correct, but it is also clearly a good way to improve the possibilities of litigation. This is how the law evolves and is embellished together with society. I think it can work well with the emergency of claims and evidence, the new possibilities of group litigation, or the new rules of expert proof. The main objective, which sets out to speed up procedures, is correct; of course, only if this is not to follow up, for example, the statistical approach of the OBH, but also the need to find out the material truth, the qualitative judgment aspects. I can already raise a number of problems here, such as the fact that the proposal shows the view that the reason for the length of the proceedings is primarily determined by the parties' criminal behaviour, and suggests that the judges have not yet had the opportunity to prevent this. [[13.30]] But I would like to go back to the approach with which I started my speech: can we, taking into account the overall orientation of the law, its legislative environment, the current state of society, get to the point where it is worthwhile to have a professional debate on specific provisions and innovations? The new Pp. Unfortunately, it will reflect the distorted social image of Fidesz in the absence of changes in other government measures and other legislation. I would like to point out that I consider this not to be a mistake of the codification committee, and not even of the members of the 15 working groups mentioned by the Minister, but of the government; not because I want to court the professional bodies and insult the government as a good opposition, but because I do not know and I do not want to analyse Pp. as an isolated piece of legislation in this debate. I am saying that, with the entry into force of the new civil procedural law - if I want to be simple but to the point, and I would like to do so - the poor will again suffer, and the rich will do well. Let me give you an example quickly, which I think is one of the most serious problems in this circle. In principle, it is acceptable that, for the sake of professionalism, there are multiple rules of law in proceedings, and it is acceptable that the government should develop the protective lawyer system at the same time as introducing this provision, and that it can guarantee that everyone can still exercise the right to sue, i.e. equal rights - well, this is missing. But the language of the new law is complicated enough to be a layman who understands. As a lawyer, of course, I know that technical terms are necessary, but they can also be called technical terms and term technician, or they can be defined in a more complicated way, mainly describing a new term, or, let me say, in a more specific way. The bill is not a new concept that appears in the text of the norm, such as the concept of representative law, which would otherwise have been easily described, let us say, for all applicants with the same content - of course, if I had understood it correctly. Without a doubt, I have never dealt with civil law in practice, nor have I acquired my scientific degree and title in this area of law, but I'm not sure that I'm the only one who's wrong if, as a lawyer, sometimes I have difficulty understanding the text and certain contexts. What do you want a layman to say? However, not only the proliferation of terminology, but also the overly formalized and complex lawsuit makes it difficult to proceed without a legal representative, and even the Fundamental Law of Fidesz provides that Article 2 of the Act of the Law of Fidesz does not apply. § (1) that, I quote, the legislation must have a regulatory content that can be clearly understood by the recipients. It is quite difficult to comply with this if recipients do not understand the legislation because of its language. If someone is forced to sue, or is expected to spend more on a legal representative than before, or is more disadvantaged. If you entrust a legal representative, you can expect significantly higher costs than the current one, because the bill necessarily achieves the effectiveness of the lawsuit by requiring much more prepared, formalised submissions and actions in court. It is necessary to stress that this is in itself the right and logical direction, but it is a direct consequence of the increase in the costs of legal representatives, as they generate substantial extra work. And if you are going to act without a legal representative, albeit less formalized, but you have to prepare or do them yourself, you will also be involved in a lawsuit where you and the opposing party acting with the legal representative are subject to different rules. This will also necessarily lead to a complicated procedure and to procedural disputes in which, without a legal representative, the party will not be equal to the best intention of the court. The new Pp. So again, he favors the rich and the wealthy and puts the poor in a worse position. In other words, due to shortcomings in the surrounding legislation, in many cases it does not guarantee genuine equality of law. Today, you can get a lawyer on the subject if I know that, if you don't make more than 26 thousand forints a month. Of course, we know that according to Fidesz, you can make a living of 47,000 forints, but they didn't even stop you from making 26,000. Well, not even a person from 47,000 forints today can get a free legal representation from the state immediately and on a subject. Have you considered that, with such rules, you really have time to extend the need for a lawyer? Of course, this approach is exactly in line with the words of Lajos Kósa, the leader of the Fidesz faction, I would quote:. Under a certain threshold anyone wants to sue, but pay the entire administrative cost, there is no tax exemption, no discounts. A clean speech, my fellow Members: those who are well-off can enforce the truth, and those who are not, let them rest in their fate. Now what do we see in Pp? If you can afford to hire a lawyer, you can sue if you can't, and you can't. I know there's always been a need for a lawyer, but instead of starting to think about expanding the force of attorneys when they've already qualified the protective counsel system for this, they're taking it the other way around. This is unacceptable to us. They are a small means of tearing apart a society, as social scissors become more and more open. I hear this in response: this is precisely the problem that the proposal eliminates by setting different legal rules depending on the legal representation in the case. However, there are two problems with this: one is that in the case of coercion cases from which, I stress, there will be more and more in the new Pp., these different rules do not apply, as there is a need for a lawyer. The main problem, however, is that instead of a legal representative financed by the State, they use, as a substitute act, legislation that threatens legal certainty, judicial independence and, in other respects, equality before law. The solution is bad for both the party acting without a legal representative, the opposing party and the judge. Special rules for the party acting without a legal representative are set out in Article XV of the bill. The main forms of pleadings, the rules on counterclaiming, the rules on filling in the gap and the others are more appropriate. An application lodged by a party acting without a legal representative does not need to be included - listen carefully! - the legal basis, the legal argument and the legal bases. These seemingly favourable rules do indeed facilitate the situation of the party acting without a legal representative, but they put the opposing party and the judge acting with the legal representative in a nearly impossible position. The judge is in force in Pp. in accordance with the law and, in the case of a party acting with a legal representative, the parties are bound by statements. In the case of an application which does not contain a legal basis or a legal argument, such a statement may not be made, and the legal basis and the legal argument must be clarified by the judge. Almost unwittingly, the other party becomes a quasi-legal representative of the judge, helping him with his expertise. How can objectivity be expected? Will you make a decision, say, against your own legal argument? By the way, the bill does not reveal whether the opposing party receives the application with the additions of the judge or not. Such different positions of the parties therefore require extreme caution from the judge in order not to prejudicate and to enforce the requirements of a fair trial. This requires a new view of the role of the judge, which is completely alien to the current one, and for which he is not currently prepared - I note: it may be better not to be - and it is not planned to be prepared on the basis of the impact assessment paper. The judge's position is aggravated by the need to negotiate cases in parallel in district courts where legal representation is mandatory and in which cases it is not. It is important to stress that it is not only a matter of learning a new type of procedure, but also of discussing matters on the same day in which the procedure is fully formalised, learning the facts, pre-recorded evidence and established legal arguments, making decisions on this basis, and identifying the legal arguments and the legal basis of the claim itself as an active contributor. The difference between the two roles is at least comparable to being a prosecutor in the morning and a criminal judge in the afternoon, it is not to be expected that a judge will meet both roles. [[13.40]] The draftr of the bill therefore perceives the problem that split lawsuit structure is a complex procedure that cannot be carried out without a legal representative. But he does not say the universally binding legal representation - I add and with great emphasis - with the necessary renewal of the party photography lawyer system - but he develops a new procedure for this to the party acting without a legal representative, which is detrimental to all participants, and I am even close to asserting that it violates principles. The other subject I would like to talk about - I must bring it here, despite the Minister's efforts to put this problem out of proportion - is that you are Pp. its trial was practically linked to the case of administrative courts; it was linked both in time and in content. It was a pity, my honourable government representatives. This in itself makes the entire bill unacceptable and unvoteable. We don't want a Fidesz party court. The creation of administrative courts on the basis of a draft is a barely veiled, repeated attack on judicial independence. Fidesz has tried to do this many times in different ways. We remember the forced retirement of the judges, with which they wanted to save the most experienced 15 percent, but eventually they had to put them back in their positions and pay them compensation. We remember the series of attacks called judicial reform when the judicial government, the National Council for Justice, was liquidated. We well remember the accepted court model, which, at the pressure of the Venice Commission and the European Commission, would have focused judicial status decisions in one hand without any substantive control. We remember the unlawful discharge of the President of the Supreme Court before the end of his term of office, who, therefore, won a final lawsuit in Strasbourg, and it costs taxpayers serious tens of millions. His crime, according to the ruling that was now final, was that he dared publicly criticize the court's restructuring of Fidesz. We remember well the pressure attempts of Lajos Kósa, Szilárd Németh and other Fidesz politicians, and the transferred cases, and I could still list the experiments they have done to invade the courts, fortunately with little success so far. Everything has been shredded, the formally independent public bodies operate at the will of Viktor Orbán, the courts are still holding out as the last rook, and I understand that this stings the eye of their great wise leader, but it is unnecessary to attempt to obtain the support of the opposition for such efforts, because, after the past, its support would not be naive, but it would be stupid on our part. We do not trust power, we do not trust Fidesz, we do not believe Viktor Orbán, and there are six years of reasons for that. Most of them immediately, but in the end, it always turned out that any major public transformation served the power interests of Fidesz. And the two-thirds have been taken from you by the electorate. Their plan is as clear as day: to parachute their party soldiers already placed in public administration into administrative courts and to grind up at least that court segment if all of it didn't work out. Well, forget about that, put your plans off. It's the new Pp. It is based on the assumption that this will be the case. That's how his structure was designed, and that's how it was put forward. Well, that's not gonna happen. This would be sufficient reason to withdraw the draft for recasting. However, there is a very serious deficiency in the proposal. I would like to ask, in particular, Secretary of State, if the Minister has no respect for us in this debate, was there no one on the codification committee who had a affinity for family law? Just because the most important problems encountered in practice are not addressed by the new Pp. It is strange for a supposedly family-friendly government; it is strange that any family-law expert would immediately say that one of the most serious problems is the delay in the procedures for children. If there was a place, it would be justified to put procedures within deadlines. Not usually procedure acceleration, I repeat, is not usually procedure acceleration, but, let's say, in a custody lawsuit, a maximum of time. It is intolerable, unsustainable, unfair that children's healthy, mental and moral development is seriously threatened by the fact that courts often make decisions in a custody suit in 3-4 years. But the length of the case and other anomalies are not uncommon in other child-related procedures. Could this have been done so far? Yeah, it could have been. Should I have? I should have. But what better time to do that than to create a new code of procedure. It is no longer permissible for young children to live in uncertainty and danger for years. It's very clear what these kids are going through, let's say, in a tougher divorce case. They drag poor people to psychologists in order to finally place them in court. They have to watch their parents report each other, using mental depression to try to tune them against the other parent. Has anyone thought of that? What is the obstacle to the new Pp. Are you also addressing these obvious and manageable problems? Don't you think it could have been expected from a government that is supposed to be family-friendly and child-friendly? Where did the best interests of children go? Please correct these shortcomings. They won't accept any anti-op amendments, we already know that, but maybe if you give the Ministry to a Fidesz to submit them, this serious deficiency can be solved without a greater loss of prestige, and I think that this is still Pp. would not interfere with your system. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a problem, also a little arguing with Minister, which would be unviable not only in a civil or even criminal court procedure. The possibilities to attach evidence have been limited to the extent that it will be an obstacle to finding out the truth. I know and understand that the Minister believes that the approach to finding out material truth in civil proceedings is outdated. I wouldn't let that go. The fact that the parties' statements and the evidence presented by them are bound by the procedure does not prevent it, I think that the judge should basically seek to find out the material truth, to find out the objective truth, obviously on the basis of the evidence available. In my view, neither criminal nor civil proceedings should exclude the possibility of submitting evidence until the end of the procedure. There is no doubt that many abuse this opportunity and are presenting their evidence late for tactical reasons, but I would like to stress that the judge has the opportunity to prevent the misguided withdrawal of lawsuits, even with the imposition of a fine. There are several possibilities for this in the current Pp. and in the likely to be adopted future Pp. If this is not the judicial practice that they are using, then the minister should consult the President of the Curia on how this can be modified - already judicial practice. In my firm constitutional view - and I am far from alone in my opinion - this does not involve harming judicial independence, it is quite possible. This is a dialogue between branches of power, which is not an order, but a dialogue. That was until it was removed in the OIT, maybe it still works in the OBT, and maybe it works informally. That would be the solution. However, the mandatory exclusion of evidence is, in my view, a violation of fundamental rights. It can be limited to a narrow circle, not to that, but to its exclusion, to its compulsory exclusion. At the beginning of the trial, even the best and most prepared professionals do not know in advance, nor do they know in advance exactly what arguments and circumstances are mentioned in the evidence process. For example, a testimony may require, for example, the attachment of a call list that was already available at the time of the trial, but it was not yet apparent that it would have any relevance in the lawsuit. It is as if we want to have a debate - your solution - by pre-recording our arguments, and by no longer bringing new ones up to the possible unexpected arguments or counter-arguments of the other party. Similarly, it is unviable to expect a lay client to decide what is relevant in a lawsuit and to tell the lawyer completely and bring the evidence. And the lawyer can only work with what he knows or doesn't know. A prepared legal representative can, of course, ask his client about some of the evidence, but certainly not everything. [[13.50]] And with this, the discovery of objective truth is seriously damaged, which, once again, I consider valuable in a civil procedure, which, by the way, is not a simple task. The law creates a situation in which ad absurdum, if the judge himself sees that a new evidence would be required in the case for a well-founded judgment, there would also be a motion to obtain it from either of the parties, he would not do so. In other words, the law will force the judge to make an unfounded judgment. Is it that important to be timely? I don't think it's that important. If they follow this approach, they will follow the statistical approach of the OBH, which I can't really feel. I think that the timeliness is one aspect, the finding out the truth is another, and I could tell you which fundamental rights to enforce in the lawsuit, which also have value, and there must be an interest in a civil, criminal or other procedure. From this, the draft focuses on one thing, just like the OBH: with a statistical approach to speeding up lawsuits. Once again, it's value, but it's not an exclusive value. Therefore, I think it would be worth reviewing this model and saying that it is possible to limit the possibilities of submitting evidence, to make the judge agree, to do a lot of things, but if both parties and the judge consider it necessary, by the power of the law, there is no way that this can happen, this cannot be agreed. I would also ask the department's experts to reconsider and reconsider. Overall, my fellow Members, of course, I have only been able to say a part of the speech in the speaker's speech, and not only in the absence of time, but also, once again, because of the time available for a week, which is a critical comment on the new civil order. However, there are some of the things I have said that preclude us from being able to support this bill, which is why we are not going to make any amendments to it, and we do not feel that it can be improved with amendments to the extent that we can support it with our vote in favour. However, it needs some improvement, and it is possible, I have raised these largely in my speech. I'm asking the government to consider these. I would like, first of all, to consider once again what concerns children and the procedure of proof. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-09-13-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Imre Vejkey, who is also speaking here on the stand. We'll wait for Congressman to wake up on the stand. [[It's happening.]] Thank you, Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi.]]
u2016-09-13-77	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Christian democrats are committed to our fellow countrymen not only spiritually but also at the practical level of everyday life. One ectant sign of this is that, after the removal of administrative bureaucracy, we now want to make the Hungarian people's other pressing concern, the administration of court cases, more transparent so that our compatriots can act more effectively before the courts with less time. Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act currently in force Act 1 was created two years ago as a reflection of Stalinist litigation and communist ownership and social relations, which, due to its encoded foundations, does not give rise to further development and modernisation of the lawsuit in accordance with the interests of Hungarian people. You should know that, after the change of regime, although the House has changed Pp. almost a hundred times, the consequences of all this have been that the codificators did not pay attention to the warnings of writing, yet they ripped a hundred and a hundred stains from the new dress to sew it on the old dress, helping the old dress, but ripping the new one. Or, in another biblical comparison, the new wine was poured into an old hose that broke the hose, and so the new wine broke and the old hose broke. Ladies and Gentlemen, That's how we stand with the civil order today. The new principles introduced within the old framework could not be properly applied, and some of them did not apply at all. Today, we find that if we go to a court in any dispute, we find, to put it mildly, problems of coherence and interpretation, which lead to the final conclusion of a simpler case lasting for years, even if the statistics of the courts show something else because of the new lawsuits given in each case. The fact is that every year the courts receive more than 200,000 cases and nearly 1 million cases of non-courts, for which effective and timely implementation of the current framework of lawsuits does not provide an adequate legal framework, and backlogs continue to accumulate year after year, and the new cases come together to this backlog. On this basis, it can be said that it is necessary to renew civil procedure at a systemic level, which can only be achieved by creating a new law that aims to create an effective, transparent and predictable framework of laws in accordance with the Fundamental Law of Hungary, which is of high quality, modern, ensuring the rapid closure and timeliness of procedures. For the reasons set out above, the following requirements of the Fundamental Law are highlighted in the bill in relation to the administration of justice. Basic Law XV. Article 1 (1) of which states that everyone is equal before the law, all people are entitled. Basic Law XXVIII. 1 (1) and (7). According to paragraph (1), everyone has the right to have the rights and obligations of any charge against him or of any action brought by the law be dealt with by an independent and impartial court at a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time. According to paragraph 7 everyone has the right to appeal against a judicial, administrative and other decision which infringes his or her right or legitimate interest. According to Article 28 of the Fundamental Law, the courts interpret the text of the legislation in the application of the law primarily in accordance with its purpose and the Fundamental Law. When interpreting the Fundamental Law and legislation, it should be assumed that they serve a moral and economical purpose that is consistent with common sense and the common good. On the basis of the above, ladies and gentlemen, a bill has been drawn up to ensure that an independent and impartial Hungarian court, fair and public hearing, within a reasonable period of time, is able to assess the right to appeal, by ensuring equality before the law, and by interpreting the legislation in force in accordance with the requirements laid down in the Fundamental Law. We also have an important expectation that the new rules of procedure will benefit from the technical achievements of the modern age, especially the opportunities offered by IT. This is particularly important in relation to one of the most important requirements of the new rules of procedure, the requirement to complete procedures within a reasonable period of time, which can undoubtedly be greatly facilitated by the expansion of electronic communications in individual civil and non-court proceedings. Ladies and Gentlemen, The central issue of creating a new regulation was how the new law could ease the situation of law-seeking citizens. The appropriate response to this is to ensure a swift and effective litigation procedure, which requires priority to be given to the split set of lawsuits and the regulation of input levels. In order to ensure a swift and effective litigation procedure in order to achieve the concentration of the case, it was necessary to define exactly what means the court, in the context of financial litigation, has in order to keep the proceedings going more effectively than at present, to prevent the length of time, and to enable the judge to participate more actively and effectively in achieving the objective of the trial. [[14.00]] The aim of the creation of a new civil order was to ensure that the current principle of justice and the principles of civil law are maintained. In view of the fact that the new civil order approaches to ensure the effectiveness of the lawsuit with a different philosophy and creates a new structure of lawsuits, it is therefore justified to present new principles that emphasise the different behaviour expected from the parties to the trial, in many respects from those in the current court. It is therefore appropriate, as a new principle, to set out the principle of litigation and the principle of cooperation. The principle of per-concentration is a means of achieving the system-wide performance of per-efficiency, which means that the rules of procedure must be designed in such a way as to ensure that the parties to the trial meet their obligations in court in time, that the content and framework of the dispute is clarified as soon as possible and that the application of legal institutions and procedural stages resulting in the withdrawal of the trial is excluded. The bill therefore lays down the requirement that the court should have at its earliest opportunity all the facts and evidence necessary for its judgment. [[István Szávay is replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] The fulfilment of this objective makes it necessary for both the parties and the court to be clear about the obligation on the parties to ensure the concentration of the case and what means the court has at its disposal to promote it. By imposing the principle of the parties' procedural support obligations, the bill states that in future, in order to ensure the efficient and rapid closure of procedures, a more active and cooperative approach should also be taken in relation to each other and to the courts. The obligation of the parties to do so may also be expressed as an obligation to advance the case. The prioritization of the court's financial administration is closely linked to the imposition of the parties' procedural support obligations, as well as the presentation of the court's obligation to intervene, which is the central component of the cooperation between the court and the parties, and the substantive aspect of the financial litigation in the new court order. In the new procedural bill, the financial prosecution of the court aims to provide the judge with more effective means to discuss the legal matter in fact and in law than is currently the case. On the basis of financial litigation, the court plays a role in clarifying the facts and has broad powers to establish a framework for the dispute. In the context of financial litigation, the court shall discuss with the parties the facts and circumstances relevant to the determination of the dispute, both legally and factually, and shall address questions to the parties in this context. In the legal rating, the court expresses which legal solution can play a role in its decision. However, financial litigation does not constitute a requirement to find out the material truth and to impose ex officio proceedings. The judicial material conduct is reflected in the planned arrangements for both input levels, but its practice and intensity depends on the parties acting in person or through a legal representative. The parties' factual and legal preparedness is necessary to achieve the concentration of the case. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The aim of a change in a single litigation structure is to promote the effectiveness of the lawsuit, to promote the requirement to deal with litigation within a reasonable period of time, and to establish a perstruture that prevents the application of legal institutions and acts of evidence capable of withdrawing and breaking the lawsuit by introducing appropriate procedural stages and laying down rules on them. In the first instance procedure, this objective can basically be achieved by introducing per-concentration elements. In order to ensure the level of litigation, the litigation procedure should be divided into two stages, the preparatory phase or otherwise the claim stage and the substantive negotiation phase, or otherwise the course of evidence. The aim of the preparatory course is to ensure that the facts, legal statements, motions, i.e. the action, counterclaims, the plea of set-off, the motion of evidence and their amendment, can be fixed there only exceptionally if the conditions laid down by law are fulfilled. The order to close the pre-trial course is considered to be a cesura of the trial, since the publication of the order closes the first part of the trial and opens the course of evidence. That's where the two stages of the lawsuit separate from each other. The role of the preparatory course so far was therefore to prepare the decision on the dispute, to determine the framework of evidence and the obligation to demonstrate to the parties. The purpose of the substantive negotiating field is to ensure that, on the basis of the statements and motions recorded in the preparatory course, the evidence procedure itself is carried out preferably at one or a small number of fully prepared hearings and that the substantive decision is taken in the trial. It was also appropriate to review and examine the interpretation of the legislation in force on the application for an application for a new civil order in order to enable the applicant's declaration of substantive law to be binding on the court. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of the specificities of the two input levels ensuring the concentration of minutes, it is appropriate to share first instance cases between district courts and tribunals. An easily accessible district court level close to those seeking rights can be referred to a large number of cases of lower court value, simpler lawsuits involving a significant number of citizens, which should be dealt with in the courts closest to citizens. The first instance competence of the level of forensics should be established in the case of lawsuits with higher content, requiring special expertise, typically more complicated, requiring professionalism. In cases of minor or simple value, it is likely that the parties will act on their own. In such cases, the establishment of procedural rules should take account of this circle, which makes it necessary to formulate differences in both the level of expectations of the parties and the intensity of the court's financial administration in relation to forensic proceedings. [[14.10]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Let's review the characteristics of each input level. The regulation of the entry level of the district court is essentially assumed by the party's personal proceedings; accordingly, the fundamental criteria of the procedure are that orality has a prominent but not exclusive role, as well as the strengthening of the party's obligation to appear, and that the court will hold a trial unless the judge orders written preparation. The level of the district court is also characterised by active judicial financial litigation, which helps to enforce claims, including a broad obligation to provide information. The applicant must also lodge an application for a firm application in those cases. The application must be capable of bringing the case to trial by the court. It shall contain the applicant's statements of fact and legal claims. The bill provides for the essential elements of the application in such a way that, in the event of the absence of the application, it also provides an opportunity to remedy the deficiency. At trial court level, the pre-trial course is essentially based on orality, but the court may also order written preparation, subject to the nature of the dispute, the parties' procedural support behaviour and the parties' motion, if it considers it to be more effective in preparing the merits of the case. The hearing shall be held on the basis of an application in accordance with the legal requirements. In view of the tight timeframe of the procedure, it is important to warn the parties already in the subpoena for the hearing of proceedings about their obligation to give evidence, establish rights, defend themselves and the consequences of their non-compliance. A mandatory presence of the parties or their representatives at the hearing should be required, because only in this case can an effective determination of the framework of the trial be carried out by means of an active judicial procedure. This is where the action is presented, the facts, legal statements, the defendant's substantive action, the defences are presented. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, gives us the opportunity to start a substantive hearing immediately at the trial if the conditions are met. This ensures that only for formal reasons unnecessary negotiations are not held. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let's go over the forensic input levels. Forensic input level regulation requires mandatory legal representation. Accordingly, the basic criteria of the procedure are the increased appearance of written knowledge and the preparation of the case on written grounds, but the court may order the hearing to be held. At the level of the General Court, there is an increased expectation of the application and of the defence, and therefore there is a narrower financial obligation on the part of the courts to prosecute, as well as an increased obligation on the parties to support proceedings and to require more mandatory electronic communication. This is a regulation that enforces professional litigation. The applicant must also lodge an application with a firm application, which must contain the applicant's statements of fact and legal claims. In view of the compulsory legal representation, the bill imposes stricter substantive requirements on the application, and therefore it is necessary to specify both the facts and the legal claims in the application, so it is not sufficient to conclude the reason only after the judicial and the other party's analysis work has been carried out. The pre-trial course is therefore based on the written nature of the case before the court. In the pre-trial course, the court shall deliver the application to the defendants and invite them to submit their substantive counterclaim. The defendant's substantive counterclaim shall cover all the facts contained in the application, in so far as the defendant is required to state, in respect of all the facts of the applicant, whether he disputes it or not and, if so, to what extent. The Court then summarises the facts contained in the application and in the defence, explaining the facts at issue and, as a result, the need for proof, and calls on the parties to submit their submissions of evidence. The parties shall indicate, in respect of each of their motions for proof, the facts or circumstances which they intend to prove by their motion. The court shall decide on the burden of proof if either party so requests. The judge may order a trial. The preparatory phase shall be concluded by the court by order made after written preparation. In accordance with the order, the statements of facts, legal statements, motions, i.e. the action, counterclaims, the plea of set-off, the motion of evidence, and their amendment or extension, shall be recorded only exceptionally. Ladies and Gentlemen, A few words about redress procedures. In our view, there is still a need to ensure one degree of redress for civil proceedings, and the review does not appear as a quasi-general third-degree, but as an exceptional remedy. Finally, a few ideas about administrative jurisdiction are allowed. In order to achieve rapid and effective administrative judicial action in our country, it is necessary to establish independent judicial rules in a separate code based on the characteristics of administrative disputes rather than the current fragmented regulation, which can be read from dozens of laws. Ladies and Gentlemen, They should know that the creation of separate administrative procedural arrangements does not cost the budget more money, that the real additional costs are caused by prolonged procedures, unapplicationable rules and sometimes repeated procedures. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, please support the T/11900 on the new civil order. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-13-78	Welcome, fellow Members. The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2016-09-13-79	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us is indeed an important cornerstone of the Hungarian legal system, compared to this in the preparatory work, it seems that, at least according to the Minister, quite a lot of discussions have been carried out, but what we need to see is that these conciliation circles have been saved by parliamentary factions or at least by opposition factions. And believe me, this is not just a sort of procedural opposition lament that we have said here, by the way, we have already heard from Gergely Bárándy, who was before me, what the problem is, so, this is not just a cry of opposition, but also questions whether we can say, in full depth, whether we can give a proper opinion here in front of the Parliament about a 500-page proposal with a little less than a week to do so. [[14.20]] And you can say that there has been a preliminary consultation - we have been doing this practice for years. Indeed, I have seen the concept, I have received it, a lot has changed since then, I would add, the individual professional proposals have been incorporated, even from different professional orders, others have not. I consider it the final version that will be on Parliament's website when the government submits this proposal to Parliament. And that was just over a week ago. We can start from this proposal, and we can work from this proposal. In particular, when the government thinks that Parliament should submit a proposal, submit a proposal, or even push it to a next term, we cannot do anything about it, as legislators, we can see the proposal that will be submitted. Not to mention that it would be appropriate to call a five-party meeting after the submission, that would be the most elegant. But I wouldn't want to get ahead of myself, it would have been enough to give us the time to look at it in its depths, or at least to see what has changed compared to previous concepts in this proposal. You know, the opposition may feel that your opinion doesn't really matter. We feel the same way when Minister of Justice Trocsányi doesn't even wait for the lead speaker's round. I can imagine that he has more important things, but if we waited 42 years for this proposal - he said, not me, on that pulpit - he might have to wait two hours to hear all opposition or pro-government proposals. But there was nothing new on the part of the ruling parties compared to the explanatory statement, which is included in the general justification of the bill. So you could have saved yourself the opportunity, Minister, to listen to this, and I understand that, but at least you should have listened to the opposition proposals. Or, if you're not interested, at least to do it with your personal presence, you can at least tell us that there's any openness in the direction we're going to tell you here. I had to say this introduction because we waited a long time, and then we waited for decades - once again quoting the Minister of Justice - but then we saw that Parliament had a week to prepare for this proposal. And it is also painful that these discussions have been saved, because otherwise there are good amendments that would have led to a good proposal and a proposal that could be supported by negotiations, adoption of proposals. You will save it or you will not need the opposition to support this proposal. If we had to, our opinions would obviously have been taken into account or at least heard. The per concentration - because I would go into it now and predict it, without the need for completeness, in view of the one-week deadline, but I am trying to highlight the main things from the principles, and my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre will continue to do so, but allow me to say that this will not be a hundred percent complete - so the principle of perconcentration can be supported in itself, so there is no problem with that. In order for the parties to participate in the proceedings as actively as possible, to support the completion and implementation of an effective procedure, there is no problem in terms of principles or the obligation to tell the truth is not from the devil, of course we are glad that it has been included in the principles. But then, as has been said, we have questions about this opening. I don't even think it's bad in itself that the process of the first degree is separated into two stages, so for the trial and the substantive trial, if it's properly regulated, we have thought about it properly, we have chewed through it here in Parliament, and not only the hundreds of experts in the background, because of course I accept that a lot of people have worked on it, but unfortunately we have seen that hundreds of experts have left wrong material or not perfect material, and it's not necessarily their fault, because how they reach into a proposal in the ministry is not what we can see. So the point is, if the preclution is set up, which Minister has again spoken about, and they move on to a substantive negotiating course, so the first-rate procedure is divided into two majors, I consider it basically a pudding that can be tasted if it is passed around properly. Indeed, the cases are in an amazing length of time; indeed, there are misguided, suing behaviours against which need to be acted; and in many cases they are already so long - that is true - these procedures, that even a bad decision seems to be better quickly than, say, a perfect decision after a decade, but I am already in violation of the law that it has gone on in this form or for so long, is a greater disadvantage than if a judgment was not perfect fast. You can hear voices like that. Then it is also true that the second degree quite often simply repealed - this is true of both civil and criminal matters - the judgments, and it was also mentioned in the report published by the Curia in recent years that very often the second degree judgment actually ends in a repealing decision rather than a substantive decision. So in many cases the repeal is made instead of the substantive decision, so often either out of laziness or because the second degree does not wish to negotiate, it simply throws it back. There's also a barrier to this, there's no reason to stop it, but the dog is buried here in detail. Then going on: a more active judicial attitude is a question that also sounds good at first, but really raises questions. And it is true, in the case of parties with or without legal representatives, that there may be a situation where the parties will not be in the same situation or how they can be expected - that is indeed true - from the judge to indicate the legal basis and the legal place under which he will have to pass judgment. It's a little like a judge saying that you should refer to this place of law, and then you can explain why it was an excellent reference, or you can say that I have not seen a more stupid and foolish reference. They're both comedians, aren't they, if you look at them as lawyers? So neither the support nor the rebuttal of your own proposal seems perfect. Of course, it is also true - and here again you can agree with the principle - that it is not necessarily only the person who has a lawyer who can look for his truth before the court who has a lawyer who needs to help these people, but I also see help somewhere in order to make the advocate's representation a little more accessible, transform it, involve it in such a way that it is also a help, or involve the court in a way that does not endanger equality of arms. So even here, despite all the negotiation, despite everything, I feel that there may be problems. Then the matter of material truth was discussed. It is not only important to have a judgment, although, as I have said, in such ten years of lawsuits it is common to have something, because anything is better than the fact that the procedure is going to drag on, but it should not be the case at law level, as legislators, that it should be assumed that the truth - and I also believe in civil lawsuits - must be approached, because if we do not do so, it will not serve the satisfaction of the citizens seeking rights. And if that is the case, it is also true that the complete exclusion of evidence from a later course, in many cases unfair and illegal decisions, i.e. it may not result in the right to form, but it may result in fundamental decisions violating the law. And here, too, I understand the logic that yes, basically everything needs to be presented, but let's not tie the hand of the court, because there may be questions later. I was thinking here, as I listened to the speakers before me, that we could get used to reading the rejoinder from the pro-government benches here in Parliament after 2010. Now, that's not gonna happen in court, going to a lawyer like that. By the way, Gergely Bárándy's metaphor was good, that it was as if we were going to give up on a tape recorder in advance, and then everyone could play it, not in any other way. [[14.30]] I have experienced this only here in Parliament, I tell you that such pre-written answers, or in many cases, when the author responded to the dispute, he took out a sheet and read it. So now, or they knew what I was doing the other night, and they reacted, so it's a problem how they knew, and the other case, if they didn't care what the opposition was saying, that's why this question is problematic. Then the question of the expert was also raised. The Minister also said that there are new concepts here, and I would not agree to it in its depths in the absence of time, but he did not convince me that this would be void. I was not convinced that in this way, in this form, that the expert would certainly consider the arguments of the opposite side, and just in order to provide for it, this will happen, and we must choose between the various experts. I'm not sure this will work in this form. I would add here that if we had more than five-party or multi-party negotiations, a conflict of arguments and arguments, I might be able to convince. Thus, in this form, I do not see progress, or what it is in, there are similar traps opening up to what is currently in the law. Then the associated lawsuit, public interest action can also be a step forward. I like the concept of highlighting associated lawsuits and actually creating them as a new category, and we have repeatedly said that actions of general interest can also be a positive step forward as far as the legal system is concerned. There has been, but in many cases it has not worked or it has not been properly incorporated in the legal system, as far as practice is concerned. So we welcome the introduction itself here, and the practical implementation is still ahead of us. The same is true of the use of infocommunication tools. It is a very old demand for the courts to keep up, on the one hand, so that they can afford not to work with tape recorders, because they are still working, so that there is not even enough for a digital tape recorder, and therefore the record-keeping leaves much to be desired in many cases. Not to mention that in countries with more modern, more fortunate historical developments than us, an automatic system can already write a report on a recording, and it is just necessary to verify that, on the basis of what has been written, it is good and makes it much more efficient to trace the whole thing back. But I would add that we would like this to be put into practice as soon as possible, so that also in criminal and civil law. Then strengthening mediation is also a good direction, and we have always said that lawsuits can be avoided in such a way, or calls the attention of the parties to the wish, the wish of the State, that, if possible, the parties agree, or are better off if they are able to agree. But it would have been better if we hadn't had a week to go into the details here, too. In the end, I wrote to myself that, since my fellow Member Vejkey has already told the administrative courts, we are not against the administrative courts. As far as the substantive procedural rules are concerned, there is nothing wrong with that. The problem is that, in the concept or in the five-party agreement which has otherwise been held, you want to transfer people from public administration to the courthouse, and I understand that the National Court Office has also opposed this. So you have come up with a concept that is not supported by the office that you have appointed President OBH. It is therefore difficult to implement reforms. Thank God it's two-thirds of the law and the organisation of administrative courts. So they go into a situation so rarely seen that they either accept arguments, arguments, or they don't. So in this situation, I have to say, it's that simple. If you would like administrative courts, then you will make a proposal that is capable of obtaining two-thirds of Parliament's support, if not, then the rules of detail, if not in this law, but will be introduced or transformed somewhere else, and otherwise, this question will certainly not be resolved until the appropriate rules, acceptable rules, are put forward in another conciliation. That's all I wanted, Mr President, and I leave the opportunity for Csaba Gyüre to explain further. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-13-80	Csaba Gyüre gets this opportunity. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-13-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My first sentence would be to ask whether the government takes this bill seriously. Here all the opposition Members who spoke before me, who said, made reference to this in some form, since it is possible to take seriously the law which, together with its justification, has 500 pages and is submitted to the Parliamentary Representative for a week to prepare him for both professional and political opinion, and to prepare appropriate criticisms here for the parliamentary debate. I think it is quite clear that this time is short, not to mention that every Member of Parliament has other things to do, not just to be made from civil order 24 hours a day, for a week. I don't think the government is taking this seriously. He doesn't take it seriously, or he takes the opposition for granted. I note here, however, that ten days ago, Minister Trocsányi at the five-party conciliation, which was, say, related to administrative courts, stressed that Pp was being tabled, but that was only a half law, so it was not two-thirds. So there was neither negotiation nor time to deal with it. My colleague Gábor Staudt said that we have seen a concept. Yeah, we saw you, but what was the concept of the Fundamental Law, for example? We've dealt with it. For a year, there was a separate committee, so, we're changing this, we're changing that, we're doing the concept. We had the concept, a week later, it came in a hundred percent completely different. It didn't say anything about the concept of the Constitution, the ad hoc committee preparing the Fundamental Law. It wasn't even about that. How, then, do we believe you that the concept and the draft law will be thanking each other at all? So obviously you can't be prepared to change what's behind it, just who likes what's born on József Szájer's laptop or what's not born on his laptop. So that's why I think they didn't take this law seriously enough, and they didn't take it seriously at all. Those who prepared it professionally must have taken it seriously, but those who did the political preparation in the ministry certainly did not. Turning a little to the legislation: we hear why a new Pp is needed, and we can ask whether there is a need for a new civil order. I think that there has obviously been a huge change in civil policy in recent years, especially since the change of regime. These changes have adjusted the main problems associated with Pp, and they are no longer present. I would say that the courts work with the old Pp. in the same way, but I ask whether the courts will be so effective, and perhaps this is one of the most important questions as to whether justice will be faster in Hungary. I think that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has so far supported any changes that speed up justice. Of course - here I put a great sign of thought, and then I say that in all cases where it did not go to the detriment of the quality of justice. So when we look at this, we accept, as a basic principle, the speeding up of justice, and I also accept that there are a lot of things in this civil law bill that are aimed at speeding up proceedings. So we don't have any problem with that in itself. Just as there are new principles, which may not be so new. Obviously, the per-concentration principle is new, but it is not new, because in 1911, as Minister said, it was already in that civil order, but in this case it is new. I don't think we have a problem with that. The parties' obligation to support the procedure, to tell the truth, as another principle, is also a very important principle, I think. It's nice, it's good, and then it's gonna be another question of how much he's gonna come into practice, and how much the court can enforce that. [[14.40]] Because it is so beautiful to have objective truth, an obligation to tell the truth - this will be very difficult to grasp for any, even the best, judge, whether he was telling the truth. In fact, the principle of good faith of the parties has already been established, so the obligation to tell the truth is theoretically established. Could the judges enforce this? I wouldn't dare say here with 20 years of legal practice that this could have been enforced, since the objective truth is different and what the parties in court will be able to prove or claim is different. How much they can enforce this will be done by judicial practice and how much they will sanction it, because a new system of fines will also be introduced by the new Civil Procedure Act. For example, if a person fails to fulfill his obligation to tell the truth, he can be fined. How many fines do you have? It is not a small fine, as this fine could amount to up to HUF 1 million. Of course, this one has its own framework, for small court cases the maximum value of the case, or 100 thousand forints for a case worth 50 thousand forints or less, but it is built up. So theoretically, if someone doesn't tell the truth, they're lying, they can be fined up to a million forints. The principle of good faith: this has already been included in the civil order and also in the court's involvement. It is a great innovation that the first-degree procedure will be divided into two parts. Looking at the powers here, it was very interesting, the Minister said, and we also saw in the Pp. that the court of general competence would be the court. Here, I would like to highlight who will be most pleased about this. I think that university students will be the most pleased with the change in this PP section. For if many of the lawyers recall the dreaded exams, when we talked about the jurisdiction of the county court at my age, and when the professor, János Németh, asked that question at the exam, we began to say [[Counting on his fingers:]] And then you knew here that hop, the fourth was left out of the twenty-somethings that had to be listed. This is definitely a failure, when, like the Canadian lumberjack's finger, one or two was missing. But obviously this will be easier for students preparing for the Pp. exam if this bill comes into force, because according to general competence everything belongs to it, except what is not, and what is relatively briefly defined by the new law is what does not belong to it. We see, therefore, that in the first instance procedure a completely new approach is being taken by civil order. There is a stage in the preparation of the lawsuit, in which criticisms have been given both by Gábor Staudt and by my colleague Gergely Bárándy. I, too, understand the intention to encourage the legislator here to finish the litigation cases as soon as possible, and I would agree with that if this did not go to the detriment of the ruling on the case. I did not like it a bit in Minister Trocsányi's speech, because it made me feel that a new approach had to be taken by the courts not to find out the truth and not to bring about justice. Of course, everyone has always been aware that the courts don't always get the truth because they don't have the chance to prove it. And there was such a saying in this regard that there is not justice, but justice in Hungary, but I believe that this kind of approach with which he has stood is increasingly going in this direction, that we are not looking for the truth, but that we can live with the law, or that we cannot live. Are we going to be quick enough to file everything, or have we failed the lawsuit? Do we have the money to prove that we need as many experts as possible, or do we not have the money? That will be the decision, and I think that this kind of attitude, which I have just heard in the Minister's speech, can go away, not even towards the provision of justice, but, where appropriate, towards the provision of injustice. And while we're at it, the possibility of sending out forensic experts or using private experts is, unfortunately, pushing the system in this direction, so that anyone who has money will be able to deliver an expert opinion while assuming that if someone has no money for litigation, lawyer, nothing, how will they pay a private expert? How can you afford a private expert when today an expert opinion is not a question of tens of thousands, nor a question of hundreds of thousands of forints, but questions of hundreds of thousands, if any millions of forints? 90 percent of the population will not be able to pay a private expert opinion in Hungary. Then how will he be able to sue? Then 10 percent will be able to look for the truth, 90 percent, won't they? Or, as was said here earlier, the patron lawyer. Who? The one with the income of 26 thousand forints? They are defined in such a strange way that they are linked to a small income that most of the population will certainly pass through, who earn minimum wage or close to it, and cannot make use of them. Therefore, they will be far behind those who, in turn, can afford to pay the experts, and can pay the best lawyers. But what else does this bring? There is a trial phase and there is a substantive negotiation phase. So the trial phase is over, and from then on, the preclusion will stand, and there is no room for further evidence. So once again, we do not fully agree, because we really need to speed up the procedures, but, as my fellow Member Bárándy said, there are a lot of new facts that can be entered into the courtroom in the course of the procedure of proof, which we do not yet know, which we can offer to prove, but we cannot do, because his legal authority is in place, and there is no place for it. In any event, it would be necessary to make an amendment in such a way that the judge himself may consider that, if a new fact has been raised in the course of the procedure of proof, he may authorise any party to offer further evidence. I think that if we really want justice and we want to see the truth, then this is absolutely necessary. Then I think it is very important that we look into the procedure and see what this new civil order will bring. What brings the judge - relief, difficulty? What are you bringing the client? What do you bring to the lawyer, and what do you bring to society? It is clear to society: that we want a quick procedure; that we should talk about the conclusion of cases in the courts in a year. That would be great. On the other hand, we put it in the pan of the balance sheet that they may not work so effectively, and here I mean quality in efficiency, not speed, which is also very important for people to leave the court in such a way that their sense of justice is satisfied at some level. Because if you can't identify with him, you can't accept him, then he's an eternal thorn, and he can face society. So it's going to cost society both pans. In the case of judges, we can also talk about the same thing. I think that in many cases the proceedings of the judges will become easier, because in the event that we pull the cesure, we close the first procedure, from what they have brought, from what they have brought, the judge cooks from what they have not brought, he will not cook from what they have not brought. He's not the one who's gonna be thinking about what other evidence is needed, what they've missed, what I'm gonna have to teach the parties. In this respect, it will therefore be easier in any way. What's it like for the client? In theory, it's very good for the client, because the procedure will be completed soon. We have specific deadlines: you file an action, within 30 days it will be announced, sent to the opponent. From there, you have 45 days for the defendant to make a statement, attach evidence. Even he makes a statement about it, and then it takes about 2.5 months, and it's even worth making a decision. In six months, if we were very optimistic, we could finish everything. It's very good in this regard. Another question is that there will be a transitional period. As long as you don't know Pp. properly, lawyers or clients, there will be mistakes. There will be mistakes on all sides, either on the side of the court or on the side of the lawyers. And here comes the lawyers' responsibility. Lawyers, I think, will have much greater responsibility for this legislation, much more opportunity to make mistakes, a lot more mistakes; they need to know Pp very, very much, because in any case it will come back to them, which is not possible in the lawsuit. If they didn't put in a piece of evidence on time, then... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Oops, thank you very much. In that case, they're gonna lose the lawsuit, so there's gonna be a lot of liability on the side of lawyers. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-09-13-82	I now give the floor to Mr Ákos Hadházy, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. [[14.50]]
u2016-09-13-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Maybe they know I'm not a lawyer, I'm a vet. I think it's important to say this because if I was a vet pretending to cure animals, imagine if I gave you an injection with water in it, or cut the skin open, and then stitched it up and pretended to have surgery, imagine what would happen to me. If it were better, they'd just beat me up or not pay me, and worse, they'd judge me. I'm a new guy in this Parliament, and I was really afraid of getting into a theater where it happens like we're in parliament, like we're arguing, like we're interested in each other's opinions, but in reality, it's about a theater, a comedy. I think what our fellow opposition Members have just said here: that the Minister will come in, give us a historical overview, say a few words about the law, then take himself and go out, means that he will not take this Parliament seriously. This means that we are not far ahead of him, as he ironically - I think - he referred to the fact that this was presented to Parliament under István Dobi in 1952, and was accepted that day without any negotiation. We're not much further ahead than that. We received this text 11 days ago, we should read the 500 pages in 11 days, study them, and expect us to vote with an informed opinion or not to vote for the law. That means no one cares what the opposition says about him. It's a sad thing. We don't understand why you have to be so fast. There is only one reason why the minister is in such a hurry by the honourable government, and this is the expectation of the Court of Strasbourg: by the end of this year, the country has given an extension to do something to bring the lawsuits to a faster conclusion, because there are 400 untenable submissions in Strasbourg, which at the present time make the loss of long-term litigation. This obviously cannot be held. So there would be a reason for urgency, but I think we could do a little more than that. On the other hand, the biggest problem is that this is the only reason for urgency, but the only reason that the bill does not remedy is because it does not comply with the fact that the procedures are actually faster. We don't understand why there hasn't been a five-party negotiation. The five-party agreement on the concept, but not the law itself. We also do not understand why the trade unions have not been consulted, because here this law concerns labour law. We believe that trade unions should have been asked on these issues. Obviously, this law, although it does not seem very exciting - it indicates how few people are here at such an opening trial - affects our daily lives, affects everyone, including those who have never been or will not be in litigation; they are also affected by civil order. We are also sorry that we have not asked or are not interested in the opposition opinion on the government side, because this law is, in fact, fundamentally eligible in many respects, and it is possible that the LMP faction will vote, especially if we see that our proposals are taken seriously; it is indeed important that, after 1952, the law on civil procedure is fully renewed. It is not possible to keep the practice of doing law with all kinds of absolving and absolving, and it is not possible to keep the practice, which, unfortunately, happens with many other laws in recent years. Our proposals concern four topics. We would have proposals relating to the law and anti-corruption measures and to the protection of the public interest, we have proposals relating to the provision of the public, we have smaller proposals concerning the involvement of trade unions and the protection of fundamental rights. In the first point, we want to achieve an increase in the right of public interest litigation, in particular the right to recover and sue against good morals, and the right of the prosecutor to sue for the recovery of State benefits which are in breach of good morals. This is an important public interest, which was considered very important by former Fidesz colleagues in the past, and they were talking about faceless severance benefits, but I guess I'm just saying, it's not in this law. We would strongly recommend extending the scope of the law. It would be very important - not in a lawsuit, but it would be important - that this law provide for the possibility of withdrawal of funds, preventing the withdrawal of funds for certain crimes - to be considered in the Quaestor case. This bill could provide an opportunity not to allow these brokers or other criminals to escape with possible cover. It is also very important for the prosecutor to be able to initiate legal remedies in the exercise of the right to dispose of national property, to consider privatisation contracts, even ex post; privatisation contracts and the privatisation of public land could be mentioned as a practical example. It would be important that if we had a real prosecutor's office, a really working prosecutor's office, we would give it the right. Let us hope that this law will live for decades, and let us trust that today's structures and today's prosecutions will not live for more decades, so let us give it the opportunity to do something about the recovery of stolen lands and privatized property. We'd like to recommend expanding the rights of associated lawsuits. In the context of associated litigation, consumer protection and labour law, the draft law provides an opportunity for associated litigation, but it would be very important to act as an associated action against environmental damage and environmental damage. László Sólyom recommended in the early eighties that environmental damage could be combated by the protection of property and neighbouring law, and it would certainly be appropriate and useful to include it in this draft law. At present, the civil suit does not deal very much with environmental damage or damage, because no one expects any meaningful progress to be made. We would consider it very important to include this possibility. We would also consider it very important that the losers of the concession proposals launched by the State also be able to bring an associated legal remedy. There was a case like this that I dealt with a little bit more than the traff case, and I think it would've been a good thing if the tramps could sue and enforce their rights. Public security would be extremely important. There are welcome steps here, but we believe that there should be a separate law in the judiciary about public security, not only in civil litigation, but also in criminal trials. We should definitely have a separate law on this. This would also be very important because the public should be strengthened in previous decisions, including previous judgments. It is also very important that the selective leak is also legally settled. We see that when matters are important from the government side, cases come out, they leak out not only in civil lawsuits, not only from the court's side, but in any case this should be dealt with in a separate law. We think that if we could make practical suggestions, it would be very important, for example, that notices be published on the court's websites. It would be very important for judgments to be published on the websites, the negotiating list. At the moment, we have the public, because you can go there, you can see on the door what you're discussing, but there would be no problem to have all the negotiations and not only according to the current practice, according to the court, remarkable cases, but the list of all the negotiations should be published on the website. [[15.00]] It would also be a very important suggestion in terms of acceleration that it should also be stated how long the negotiations have been going on. This public could certainly make progress. The question is, do we really need to narrow down who can produce images and audio recordings at the trial? The draft narrows it down, the draft says that only media service providers that fall within the scope of the Media Act. It is very important that the publicity of a trial should not depend on the size of the courtroom; that if the courtroom is small, it is a little public, if the courtroom is large, it is very public. It is also very important that we do not make this distinction, this narrowing down, because there may be websites today, there are blogs, there are video blogs, professional blogs, it would be unjustified to limit the production of images and audio recordings only to participants subject to the media law. I would also like to join the opposition colleagues in insisting that it is extremely important that the incomplete recording of the current tape player changes the judicial procedure. Today's technical conditions allow for recording without further delay, the documentation is very important for a negotiation. Indeed, those who are involved tell me how important a half sentence can be in a trial, a whole sentence in a trial, which may not be complete in the case of a non-literal record, and may change judgment in many things. We believe that this should be pushed, that there should be a literal record or full recording of the negotiations. I referred in the introduction to the proposal for trade unions. We believe that one of the greatest forms of assistance they provide to trade unions could be that trade unions could also represent their clients in labour law proceedings. I think this would be an absolutely important and useful opportunity. We feel from the government that it is trying to make the operation of trade unions, the weight of trade unions, impossible. I think that this should not be the way in this law, but the weight of trade unions should be increased. Finally, we will come to some of our fundamental rights proposals. First of all, as you have mentioned, the main purpose of this law, one of its main objectives, is to speed up procedures, but if we look at it, it is virtually lacking the possibility of feedback in Strasbourg and lacks the possibility of real enforcement. As I said, there are 400 cases on this issue against Hungary, compared to this, this law leaves virtually one remedy, and this excuse, and in any case it cannot be an effective legal protection tool, can not be an effective means of enforcing the violation of the law. There are countries, not even a few, where there is a separate judicial forum that is inserted into the system of justice and which can proactively prevent or compensate for the delay in proceedings. However, nothing of these has been seen, this objection remains, it is possible to object to the delay of the proceedings, but, for example, the existing claim for damages has been avoided, so far it has been possible to lodge a claim for damages, it has not been judged by the courts very much, but this will be removed. We have to believe that this law will be so good that there will be no delay, but this demand will be avoided. So, basically, it's against what you're referring to as a fundamental goal and a viable goal. Finally, some minor suggestions. With regard to the rules on press adjustment, it is not clear why a lawsuit may be brought against editorial offices, which otherwise do not have legal capacity, but the costs of litigation are already borne by the publisher where appropriate. We think that in both cases the publisher should be sued, and that should be combined. Objections should be made within 15 days with legal effect, and the victim can be expected to report any personal harm within 15 days. It would be important, under today's technical conditions, that we no longer have to adjust deadlines to a letter of return, that everyone can do by mail and fax, that is now absolutely not something from a devil, I think. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-13-84	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The general debate is adjourned. Its continuation and closure will take place at our later meeting. It is now up to the general debate on the laws governing EU and international cooperation in criminal matters and the bill amending certain criminal law laws for harmonisation purposes. Government referral T/1232. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2016-09-13-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The prevention and detection of criminal offences, the conduct of criminal proceedings and the enforcement of penalties imposed definitively are unthinkable without cooperation between States and judicial authorities. The principle of mutual trust already has a decade of history in criminal cooperation, so the mutual recognition of judicial decisions and judgments between the Member States of the Union has become the cornerstone of judicial cooperation. This is particularly true in the light of the fact that the removal of the EU's internal borders and the exercise of the right to freedom of movement and the free choice of residence are increasing in the number of people who are being prosecuted in a Member State other than their place of residence. It is easy to see that effective cooperation is inconceivable without introducing the results of codification work at EU level in these areas of law into national law. At the same time, in addition to a number of legal acts, the relevant case law of the European Court of Justice concerning the interpretation of certain acts of the Union relating to the area of freedom, security and justice should be kept under constant consideration in order to make cooperation more smooth and efficient. In view of all this, the T/1232 in front of you is T/1232. The legislator intends to comply with Hungary's legal harmonisation obligations in the European Union, to ensure full consistency between EU law and Hungarian law by amending and clarifying existing legal provisions, and to make cooperation between the European Union and international criminal law simpler and easier to apply on the basis of Hungarian, Hungarian law enforcement experience and comments. The amendments concern a number of areas of criminal substantive law, criminal procedural law, criminal law, criminal law, EU and international criminal cooperation and judicial enforcement law. Next, I would like to highlight the most important changes in the bill. In the light of the practical experience with the implementation of the European Arrest Warrant and the European Commission's comments, it has become necessary to fully redefine the provisions of the Law on the transfer of criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union to Hungary and to amend certain provisions of the Law on International Criminal Assistance. [[15.10]] Among the new legislation, it is worth highlighting the introduction of a milder coercion, temporary extradition or transfer house arrest, and a temporary extradition or transfer removal ban, which affects both the institution of the European and international arrest warrant. The reason for these new provisions is that neither the Framework Decision containing the rules of the European Arrest Warrant nor the individual extradition agreements impose an obligation to arrest, nor the Fundamental Law, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU define this coercive measure as a final instrument. In addition, it should not be neglected that, in many cases, it would be unreasonable to order a prior arrest against persons residing in Hungary, especially if an international accomplice was ordered in connection with a minor criminal offence. In order to ensure the effectiveness of extradition or transfer, it will be mandatory to require the use of a technical tool to monitor the loaded movement of the vehicle in the application of milder coercive measures. At the same time, the new regulation ensures that the person requested to be issued or transferred is already under arrest after the Minister's positive decision on surrender and extradition, i.e. at the time of his physical transfer, at the disposal of the authority. The second important innovation is also the coordination between the receipt of imprisonment and the enforcement of the measure involving deprivation of liberty and the implementation of the European Arrest Warrant, which will allow the refusal of a European arrest warrant issued by another Member State on grounds of nationality to enable the enforcement of the criminal claim to be prevented in order to carry out a sentence against Hungarian citizens. Thirdly, the bill seeks to ensure compliance with the European Parliament and Council Directive on the right to access a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in proceedings relating to a European arrest warrant and on the right to inform a third party at the time of deprivation of liberty and on the right to communicate with third parties and consular authorities during the period of deprivation of liberty. The deadline for transposition of the Directive expires on 27 November 2016 and Member States are therefore required to comply with the provisions thereof by that date. In view of this, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Criminal Cooperation with the Member States of the European Union also needed to be amended to enable Hungary to fulfil its obligations of harmonisation of EU law. Fourthly, with regard to the amendment of the Criminal Code, attention should be paid to the amendment of the legal facts of incitement to the Community. The EU Framework Decision on combating certain forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia requires Member States to take the measures necessary to comply with the provisions of the Framework Decision by 28 November 2010. However, when examining the compatibility of Hungarian legislation with EU law, the European Commission found that the Hungarian criminal law legislation was not appropriate. In order to avoid Hungary's failure to comply with this obligation, the amendment of the facts of incitement to the community to the comments of the European Commission is included in the bill. Fifthly, among the provisions of the bill, the so-called "extensive confiscation of property" should also be highlighted, in order to supplement the Criminal Code and the law on judicial enforcement. The seizure of assets with extended effect basically involves two categories of cases. On the one hand, the rules which are still part of the Criminal Code, i.e. that the confiscation of property acquired during the time of participation in, the placing on the market of, or dealing with, the criminal organisation, and the commercial or criminal smuggling of persons should be ordered. On the other hand, with the amendment introduced to comply with Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council adopted in 2014 on this subject, property acquired by the perpetrator of the offences listed in the law in the five years prior to the initiation of criminal proceedings could not have been lawfully committed on the basis of his verifiable income. The apparent imbalance between the property situation of the perpetrator, his personal circumstances and his demonstrable income must be demonstrated by the investigating authority, the prosecutor, otherwise the reversal of the burden of proof previously introduced in the Criminal Code also governs this case of an extended confiscation. Sixthly, the Criminal Code requires amendment of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on criminal sanctions for market abuse, market abuse, which was also established in 2014, in view of which it was necessary to amend the criminal law of insider dealing, to modify the name and facts of capital investment fraud, to amend the concept of financial instruments and to introduce a new case, the unauthorised disclosure of inside information. Seventhly, in order to ensure that the hearing by means of a video conference referred to in the mutual legal assistance agreement is also ensured internationally, the International Law on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters should be supplemented by the detailed rules for interrogation or hearing through a closed-circuit telecommunications network. Eighth: In addition to the above, the bill contains technical clarifications for smoother cooperation, taking into account several reports from the European Commission. Mr President, Dear House, In the event of the adoption of the bill, criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union and international cooperation in criminal matters can be expected to be made more effective, as well as the completion of EU and international criminal proceedings in Hungary as soon as possible. As I mentioned earlier, in the light of the practical experience of the application of the law and the establishment of implementing rules for EU acts in this field, the legislator could not delay any longer. The amendments will therefore clarify the essential areas of international and EU cooperation in criminal matters and, where appropriate, further develop in the light of the principle of mutual trust. In view of all of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support T/1232. Bill No. 1. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-09-13-86	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Róbert Répássy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-13-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group supports T/1232. Legislative proposal No 1 on the amendment of the laws governing cooperation in criminal matters in the European Union and in international criminal matters and of certain criminal law laws for the purposes of harmonisation of laws. The bill contains an important package of amendments, both in its scope and content, which amends the law on judicial enforcement, the law on international criminal assistance, the law on criminal proceedings, the criminal code, the law on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union and not least the law on the enforcement of penalties. The aspect linking legislative amendments is harmonisation and compliance with the law of the European Union. One of the many provisions of the bill, which I consider to be a major amendment, is an amendment to the Criminal Code, including the bill 54. Article 332 of the Criminal Code, which amends Article 332 of the Criminal Code. §2 which contains the offence of incitement to the community. [[15.20]] I must say that when I took the bill into my hands and learned the contents of it, I was surprised and delighted to learn that the bill was modifying the Bill. 332. §8 of the EC Treaty. My surprise was that, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, by 28 November 2010, the Framework Decision for which the Btk is now in compliance should have been complied with. 332. Article 5 of the Act is amended, so, while Parliament has established the new Criminal Code, this framework decision was already known in principle, but I do not feel responsible for this omission, given that there has been a rather consistent consensus between criminal lawyers and constitutional lawyers so far that the Hungarian constitutional concept does not allow incitement to hatred, in addition to incitement to the direct threat of violence, to the crime against the community, to be part of the facts. As stated in the explanatory statement of the bill, it is a practice of the Constitutional Court for almost two decades, which has worked out for a long time the constitutional standards of incitement to hatred and of hate crimes in general from the point of view of Hungarian criminal law. The justification includes the principle of the clear and present danger that the Hungarian Constitutional Court has adopted. This rule has not allowed the criminal code to be amended over the years so that incitement to hatred can punish so-called hate crimes beyond the direct threat of violence and the possibility of direct violence. My surprise therefore arises from the fact that, although we did not seem to have the opportunity to do so, let us consider that this is a legislative experiment that we are part of, since if the Constitutional Court would consistently abide by this principle, the Constitutional Court would consider extending the proposal to this effect. Thus, the proposal shows a fine example of the fact that European Union law sometimes overrides the principles of law developed in the practice of the Constitutional Court for decades. When I said that I wanted to express not only my surprise but also my joy, I could welcome on my part the fact that the government's proposal goes beyond a theoretical and practical problem and attempts to expand the range of hate crimes. So, basically, it's about expanding the criminal treatment and prosecution of hate speech. I welcome this, because, as rightly referred to in the reasoning of the bill, the fourth amendment of the Fundamental Law creates a constitutional basis, according to many people, for the Constitutional Court to reconsider its previous position, since the fourth amendment of the Fundamental Law made it clear that the exercise of freedom of expression should not prejudice the right of others to human dignity. Here is the first possibility if we adopt this law to allow the Constitutional Court to change its two-decade concept of criminal protection or threat to criminal law in the form of either specific or general norm control, which means that the direct threat of violence is not yet present in a situation, but is merely incited to hatred. Of course, the criminal law set out in the proposal would not in itself punish incitement to hatred, but its conduct in a manner suitable to disrupt public order or peace of mind, so there is an additional element of facts in this proposal that could at the same time make this situation easier to interpret and, on the other hand, make it more constitutionally valid. To sum up, I believe that in this legislative harmonisation package on criminal matters, there is a proposal that gives rise to a new possibility of combating hate speech, giving new means to combat hate speech for law enforcement. As I have already said, however, this also assumes that both judicial practice and, if it comes before it, the practice of the Constitutional Court must change in this regard, so that the harmonisation of EU law in itself is unlikely to be sufficient to change its position, but I believe, as I have just mentioned, that the provisions of the Fundamental Law in force, the new Fundamental Law and its amendments will allow the Constitutional Court to act and allow more effective action against hate speech. Dear House, So, in addition to the fact that the bill contains a number of technical amendments necessary for reasons of compliance with EU law, it also includes a very significant amendment of the Btk., which is of principle, and this amendment of the Btk., as I said, I hope will stand the test of constitutionality. It is only a secondary issue that we are also fulfilling compliance with EU law, in fact the possibility of more effective action against hate speech is included in this bill. For this reason alone, I would like to commend you with respect and ask for the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-09-13-88	I give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2016-09-13-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in an approach, it can be said that the Ministry of Justice has put a fair professional proposal on the Parliament's table this time, which in most places - with one exception, and I would like to go further - seems indeed suitable for improving criminal cooperation at international and EU level. At the same time, I would like to stress that I condemn the government's practice of complying with harmonisation obligations only at the last moment or beyond the deadline. This incorrect practice can also be seen in this bill. My colleague, Mr Répássy, said that with the amendment of the Btk., which was included in this, this obligation should have been fulfilled already in 2010. No more than six years on this one. [[15.30]] At the same time, it should also be mentioned if we look at a little on the side of society or reality as to how much sense it still makes to maintain the appearance of the rule of law by discussing and adopting such proposals. For example, I fully agree with what is in the proposal to introduce, let us say, an extensive confiscation of assets. It's a good provision. But someone please tell me that until the D.A. is prosecuting György Matolcsy and Lőrinc Mészáros, what's the point of introducing an extended confiscation? As long as the D.A.'s office is conducted as it is, in a biased manner, for political purposes, as long as the prosecutor's office is the instrument of political repression in the hands of Fidesz, does it really make sense to discuss such proposals here, my fellow Members, which is linked to criminal law? Because I doubt it. So, once again, the problem is not with what is here, because indeed, the transposition of the new rules on the implementation of the European Arrest Warrant, the fact that the mandate of a lawyer will be possible, is correct. Good, once again, the confiscation of property, it's correct to have a lot of what's in this and what the Secretary of State has said. Is it even worth talking about in this legal environment? What I would like to do, too, because it is worth talking about - about the rest, I think, no - is the amendment of the Btk. mentioned by my fellow Member Répássy. I could say I'm glad this came in. But I can also say that this is once again an attempt to deal with the problem in a way that the European Union would otherwise require or would expect of Hungary, but to try to take a detour, bypassing the way around to meet the wish that they are expressing, but really not. Ladies and gentlemen, When the ECRI clearly says that the human dignity of communities must also be protected by criminal law, what would be the appropriate response? That, please, is to introduce the criminality of hate speech. It is not that the incitement to the community, or forgiveness, that we now carve the facts of incitement under another name, but that we comply with this wish and make hate speech punishable in Hungary. That is when we would meet the demand for the protection of human dignity of the ECRI. At least if the ECRI hasn't changed its position as the last time I went to their conference on the same subject. The problem is that, and here I would like to correct my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, is that a large part of hate crimes is already in the Btk. This is specifically about hate speech, verbal hate speech, because, let's say, violence against members of the community is still part of the Btk., quite rightly. So here we can talk about a number of facts when we talk about hate crimes. In fact, a lot of people don't necessarily include hate speech in hate crimes. I do, but there's a debate on this. On the other hand, it is certain that the legal object of incitement to the community is not the protection of human dignity. The legal object of this crime is the protection of public order. If, in the interests of public order, we amend legislation, we will never be able to get it to sanction hate speech. I would also like to say that although Mr Répássy was undoubtedly right that the Constitutional Court had a rather interesting practice over the past 20 years. I say it's interesting, because although it's fundamentally contrary to my legal position and contrary to my view of law, it's not even consistent. Because if it were consistent, there would be no Holocaust denial in the Btk today, or there would be hate speech. I can't do both. For the Constitutional Court, if it had kept to its previous legal practice, then the Holocaust denial, which now bears a different name, but earlier, when the Constitutional Court declared it constitutional, it said that it was constitutional, it should have said so to hate speech. I have conducted this quite a long time in several studies, which is still my point of view. However, one thing that you may have forgotten, Mr President, is that the Fundamental Law has changed enormously on this subject. Today, the Fundamental Law explicitly states that the protection of human dignity, the protection of the human dignity of groups and individual groups, can be ensured by criminal and civil law instruments. That's what the Fundamental Law says white and black now. So when this goes before the Constitutional Court, I have no doubt that this will be constitutional. And in this case, I would say, not because there is a Fidesz Constitutional Court, and this is a law tabled by Fidesz, but because, under the new Fundamental Law, if I were a constitutional judge, I would decide the same. So I don't see a problem with constitutionality here. I see a bigger problem as to whether this wording is good and actually meets the requirements of the ECRI. As far as the wording is concerned, yes, it is a good and interesting logic that incitement to hatred, i.e. inciting as a criminal act, has required a direct capacity for violence and violence, so if I put violence in there, it may be possible to orientate the judicial practice by taking it out of the instigation, or by not understanding it. I don't know if that's true, but I understand that this is the pursuit. I note that, by the way, the practice, which is direct and concrete, requires the concrete and real possibility of an outbreak of violence to be declared a criminal offence by a court, a judgmental decision, which has no binding force in Hungarian court practice, and it is also completely illegal. It's perfectly against the law. The court has put an element in the facts that is not part of the facts. For if the legislator wanted the immediate and real emergency to exist, he would write this in, as in other facts. This was arbitraryly introduced by the referee, and since then this misguided judicial practice has developed. That's what I'm talking about. The other thing is that it will be quite interesting, because it will put it against certain groups of the population, their members - which is a new element in this law - inciting violence or hatred as an act of crime. Well, I don't know here, maybe this will hold up, and I need to think about it, but it's very similar to violence against a member of the community, which, I don't know now, I don't know if he has a prep attitude, but it would be a lot easier if he didn't have one, and we shouldn't be bothering the community. So I would have chosen a completely different legal solution. I'm saying, let's just say there's hate speech, that's a felony. Obviously, this will be a lot of debate between my better fellow Members. On the other hand, it should be used as a preparatory behaviour if there is no such violence against a member of the community, either any preparatory behaviour, or even the call or any of the calls that the legislator requires, i.e. the ECRI. To sum up, fellow Members, I should be happy about this, because we are moving in the direction that I have been saying in this House for more than ten years. At the same time, as I referred to it at the beginning, this is once again a detour to avoid giving the child the name which, let us try to comply with the call of the ECRI, so that he may not complain to Hungary in every country report that he has not fulfilled his obligation, but let us not say that this is hate speech. I'm, I'm telling you again, I'm not a fan of this. Because what we have here is not a punishment for hate speech. If that's what we want, we'll sanction it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[15.40]]
u2016-09-13-90	I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-13-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I believe that the debate on the proposal has been concentrated on one point, and this is the Btk. 332. §2 of the Act, which can be examined in several respects. By the way, when I looked at the proposal, I placed the emphasis on this, or more specifically, I noticed that there are the legal maladministrations that need to be discussed in the Parliament as well. There are many things that have been said, and I will obviously come up with a completely different system of reasoning and considerations, not only because it is my job as lead speaker for Jobbik, but also my opinion and our opinion in relation to what we have heard. Róbert Répássy said that this is not only about what is written here in the proposal, so it is not only about an amendment, but also about a principle aspect, which is far from changing a passage of the Btk. here and pushing the relationship between EU law, Hungarian law, more precisely, EU legal obligations and Hungarian case law. So this can be investigated in two ways. What my fellow Member Bárándy said is that it is not enough for him because the hate speech has not yet been sanctioned here, and Parliament should have done so by now, this is obviously an MSZP position, and I do not think that Hungarian legislation is bad in this respect. They would also remind you of what was the subject of many debates when the denial of the crimes of communist and national socialist regimes entered the Btk. I would not reopen this debate, that it was good or not good, that it had turned out this way, but at least it could be said that the mention of the sins of a right-wing dictatorship and of a left-wing dictatorship had become criminal, so the legislator sought some balance, although I might add that this should be neither in the Btk. nor in the other. On the other hand, there is a legal fact that the new Btk. It has actually taken over the old case-law, although it has slightly renamed it, but the facts of incitement to hatred do indeed have a more than two decades of constitutional practice, and this established practice - and this has also been said before me - refers to the fact that the facts can only be punished if there is a direct risk of violence. There have been several lawsuits, several decisions, and there has been enough time for the Hungarian judiciary to record this at all levels in a properly consistent state of affairs. It is possible to argue that this is good or to argue that this is wrong; in my opinion, criminal law cannot be called upon in every situation, it is just such a situation. By the way, it is very interesting that the MSZP, when it comes to, let us say, the commission of criminal offences, when Jobbik proposes, say, to raise, to tighten up, to tighten up, to increase the sentence, to increase, to say, the position of the MSZP that criminal law cannot be a solution to everything, and that tightening up is not a solution, and that even the inclusion of new facts in the criminal code is not a solution. It seems that in other cases, such as hate speech, they immediately call on Btk. I feel a duality in this, but I do not want to go into this debate, because there are more interesting things here than the need to place hate speech in the Btk. or not. The justification, the justification of the bill - Répássy Róbert has already mentioned this - refers to the fact that there was a framework decision on which the European Union refers to the fact that we have not incorporated it into Hungarian law, but that this was practically the case if we read the justification. So, formally, Hungarian law complies with EU law, and this is described in the explanatory memorandum. On the one hand, the fact that it is not in Hungarian law or in Hungarian Btk. does not include the fact that the group also affects individual grievances on the basis of membership of the group, describes the proposal, or you describe it in the detailed explanation that it has already been so, and the case law has suggested that, indeed, if a person is offended by his membership of a group, then they have included the legislation in force. Then why change it? Is it because the European Union has launched a pilot procedure? Or couldn't the Union or the Commission be persuaded? I would like to add, and I would also like to ask the secretary of state present, if she is available, because I have not found the material of the pilot procedure, so that what exactly is in the Commission's file, and if you can get it out, that would make it easier for us, because it was not available on the Internet, or I have failed to do so by my colleagues. So it's exactly quoted here, and I wouldn't repeat it, because Madam Secretary, you know perfectly well what we're talking about, but if we could read this, we'd move forward in solving it. So it is written down in the case of membership of the group, as I said, that it is already in the current legislation, or in fact what the European Union literally expects, it has already been included in Hungarian law. Thus, the term incitement to hatred was included; the other question is that the judicial case-law partly transformed or developed an appropriate application of law, including the practice of the Constitutional Court. So this is a crystallized exercise. And now, in order to change this practice, we include another category, the incitement to violence, which would theoretically be a more stringent category, but that then the judicial practice will be divided into two. So what's this about? Simply put, the Commission of the European Union, the European Commission, expects not only Hungarian legislation, the transposition of specific law, but also the decision of the Hungarian judicial practice and the Constitutional Court on the basis of specific law. From this point forward, and this was what Minister of State Répássy said, perhaps he said that the decision is of principle, even okay, I agree, but he said that it is a good example of how he speaks into it and how EU law overrides Hungarian constitutional practice - that is what he said about it. Well, this is not a good example; this is a very good justification for the amazing and otherwise expanding way in which the Commission of the European Union tries to intervene in the Hungarian constitutional order, because it is not enough for them to monitor the transposition, they want to put pressure on judicial practice. Where is judicial independence? - I'd like to ask you a question. Technically, let us say that the European Commission criticised the work of the Hungarian courts for applying legislation which already meets the EU's expectations. From this point on, the principle that Róbert Répássy has said is not a fine example for me, but a shameful and repudiating practice - because in the future, the European Union will believe in other judicial decisions, not only that it can express its opinion, but that it can intervene? Can the Hungarian Fundamental Law and the practice of the Constitutional Court be overwritten? If it's nice for you, then maybe we didn't watch a movie at the movies, as they say. I heard from Prime Minister yesterday that there is a fight here, a fight to the death against Brussels. Then we should continue to fight on these fronts, and we shouldn't blow the first pilot procedure. I know, of course, this is not an important issue in which Fidesz sees the election victory of 18 as a foundation, but it is still, I agree, a very important practice of principle, and, by the way, an example of how to override all Hungarian laws and, by the way, also the Fundamental Law, and I go further, the established constitutional practice since the regime change has been established by the Union and its Commission. [[15.50]] So, taking this into account, and adding that the justification only confirms these doubts to me, because, on the one hand, it confirms - and I will not repeat - why the current legislation formally meets the Commission's expectations and the expectations of the Framework Decision, and it also states in the detailed justification that it is, in effect, the abstract endangerment of public order that they want to go beyond - it has already been said - and a way of disturbing public rest that you, as legislators, as majority legislators, would expect to incorporate into this reality. Then why didn't they write it? It's not in there. If the detailed justification indicates that the proposal makes the act part of the provision in the case of incitement to hatred in a manner suitable for disturbing public rest, then why is it not included? This could have been written in the Btk. 332. They don't do it on the grounds - I've been looking for something that I missed or where this provision is - and then they refer to it as a rubber law, by the way, as "Btk." it contains a number of provisions under which certain conducts may be punishable only if they have been expressed in a manner suitable for disturbing public rest and therefore do not cause any problems with the application of the law. Well, thank you very much. From the fact that this is written into the detailed justification, and it is thought that this will not, on the one hand, bind the courts, and, on the other hand, refer to other parts of the Btk., it will be quite clear to all courts how to apply it or expect a disturbance of public rest, again I think it is not only legislative forgetfulness and negligence, but also, I must say, a kind of conscious whiffing, and they want to make it believe by who reads the detailed justification that I really want to expect the disturbance of public rest. If it hadn't been that way, the court would have decided otherwise, if the court practice had developed differently, and no one would have cared, the goal had been, but if it had actually been done, they would have written it in the Btk. To sum up, because I myself am stuck in this part, and I would really like to reject the principle itself, and I would have hoped that Fidesz would do the same, and the Fidesz-KDNP representatives would do so to intervene here with all kinds of framework decisions in the practice of the Hungarian courts, and, of course, in most parts, the proposal contains eligible provisions, because it would not support a cross-border enforcement procedure. This is not about foreign exchange authentic enforcement procedures, but about the needs of citizens who otherwise earn their assets, and the possibility of issuing a European arrest warrant is broadening, in itself it is also possible to support remote hearing of experts in criminal proceedings, and it is not possible to say that it would be problematic or even extend the scope of confiscation, although we are looking for the category of political crime in vain here. But let's stick to the law, in itself, extending it to other organised crime, which in itself would also be eligible. Only to me is my huge problem that I have said that anyone voting for this proposal has accepted that the Union wants a deeper say in not only Hungary's legislation, but also in Hungary's legislation. So I would also like to influence the development of court case law in Brussels, which is totally unacceptable to me, and then it may be that this is a good practice for our fellow Members of the Fidesz, and we have also heard that this alone does not have to oblige the Constitutional Court, the Hungarian Constitutional Court. Of course, in the Constitutional Court, especially if you are not in a hurry to expand your number, you have to work with 11 people instead of 15 people, and it is mostly filled with Fidesz party soldiers, so I am not afraid that the Constitutional Court would resist the fidesz demands. But if we look at the practice of the Constitutional Court, the practice of the Constitutional Court for more than two decades since the change of regime, then it is outrageous to call on the EU to bring down the Constitutional Court. That is what we should think about, and I think that this proposal should be taken out in principle, and that it should be put in another bill in a different way and even by rewriting a fact, but not in this framework decision. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and with reference to the Union. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-13-92	We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. First, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy.
u2016-09-13-93	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Congressman Staudt, I'm not saying this for the sake of the bullshit, but you misunderstood, to be exact, you only heard one half of my arguments. I said that I was surprised myself that, by means of an EU harmonisation, a pilot procedure brought this amendment to the House. But I also said that since the fourth amendment of the Fundamental Law, according to the current text of the Fundamental Law, a new concept has been possible, so it is possible for the Constitutional Court to change its perception of the criminal facts of hate speech. I could say that it doesn't matter why this is coming before us, but it's actually worth a try, an attempt to change the practice of the courts, the criminal court and the Constitutional Court, on the one hand. On the other hand, I must sadden him because the law of the European Union has a very serious influence on the Hungarian courts, because the law of the European Union can be applied directly to the Hungarian courts, and there is even a so-called preliminary ruling procedure in which the Hungarian court can turn to the Luxembourg court and ask him how EU law should be applied in the case before him. So I wanted to say that, as much as we love or dislike it, EU law has a much greater impact than we think it has had on the lives of Hungarian citizens since our accession to the EU, and especially since the Lisbon Treaty. What is unusual is sneaking into criminal law, but it is also rare in general to have EU law standards on criminal law... - so, among the mandatory legal standards, criminal law is rare. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's more of a civil-law issue. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-13-94	In a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2016-09-13-95	The picture has not become clearer, my fellow Member, Répássy Róbert. It doesn't matter why we change it. If you guys bring in a motion to rewrite Btk, argue about hate crimes, that's fine, let's argue. This is the legitimate decision of the Hungarian Parliament. But if this is required by the European Union in a framework decision that, by the way, Hungarian legislation is formally and fully in line with what the European Union expects, and the European Commission criticises Hungarian case law, and criticises not only the judicial practice, but also the case law that has been crystallized by the Constitutional Court for more than two decades, and that is why you bring it in and amend it, the situation of the child is completely different, as they say. If they bring him in separately, that's fine. We are arguing, and I am not saying that we can support the outcome, depending on what they would bring in, but that they would lie down on a subject which should not be, because there is no obligation to do so, and if we are already in the context of EU legal obligations, I would also say that if you brought up the preliminary ruling procedure, it does not concern the interpretation of Hungarian legislation by the Court of Justice of the Union. Only EU legislation can be interpreted. In this case, however, we are talking about the interpretation of Hungarian legislation by the Commission, not even the Court of Justice of the European Union. So if you have seen this, how to ask questions, when a Hungarian court comes to the EU court, they are sickly aware that they can only request the interpretation of EU law from the EU court, the EU court would throw it back if the Hungarian court asked them to interpret the Hungarian law. So I must say that in this case, unfortunately, we are overextending and we are contributing to a decision in principle that does undermine Hungary's sovereignty. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[16.00]]
u2016-09-13-96	No further two-minute comments, so I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame.
u2016-09-13-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary, this is about the harmonisation of criminal law laws, and my fellow Members have, in practice, described the issue of hate speech in a number of approaches, and I would not like to deal with it. I would rather mention three things very briefly. One is, in fact, a question that I will probably not get a satisfactory answer to, but what I would like to know is why it is always, not only in the context of the negotiation of this law and the draft law, but in general when it comes to legislation on legal harmonisation, when it comes to legislation on international cooperation and EU issues, that story falls into the House's walls at the last moments. Why do you always have to wait until the end of these things? Over the past six years, we have faced many, many, many of these cases. The other two things I would like to mention are no longer formal, but rather content. Practically, I see that there is less and less law enforcement practice in Hungary or is behind it. I can give you countless examples of what I perceive to be in order to confirm this revelation. I do so with regard to the prosecution, for example, political power, because what you are exercising, I cannot call it power, matters which seem unpleasant to political power are practically postponed or rejected in its process. For example, here was the case of the referendum initiative, bald people, Necks, the story is known. He was here yesterday, and he was dealt with by Parliament, Roland Mengyi. Following the press appearances, steps were taken by the prosecutor's office. But we could also talk about the handling of the Vizoviczki-Kubatov letter. It's a thousand stories of this type that can be shown. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Why must there be a sense in the multitude of people of what I have said that the law that appears to be the rule of law is becoming less and less law enforcement? Shouldn't we change that? And if I look at the other part of the story, which is about, within the framework of this bill of harmonisation, for example, an extended confiscation of assets - I think that is 54. § - and 57. I would say that I think that they are okay. The point is not only that something will be adopted in terms of legislation, but what my fellow Member Barondy has also said is whether the necessary implementation of this will be achieved, how it will be implemented, how it will be implemented. So I think we should make a change, not only with regard to the regulation of law, but also with regard to its enforcement. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-09-13-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members, to our work. I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Mariann Water East, if you wish to speak. [[For signal:]] Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-09-13-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would only respond in a few sentences to the points raised here. Firstly, I would like to thank the Members present for the proposals and suggestions that have been made here in the debate. I appreciate this because it was basically a supportive and constructive contribution and evaluation. On the subject of Mr Barándy's suggestion, you are right, Mr Barándy, that the obligation to harmonise legislation should have been fulfilled by November 2010, but these six years have not passed without success, since we have been in constant communication with the Commission. For violence against members of the community, the Ptk. 216. However, it is an essential fact that this is a violent behaviour which is not a crime against public rest, but a crime against human dignity and certain fundamental rights. On the points raised by Congressman Gábor Staudt, which is the Btk. 332. With regard to the amendment to Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, we will, of course, forward the material relating to the pilot procedure. So thank you again for what has been said, and I hope that you will support this proposal. Thank you.
u2016-09-13-100	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. The Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-09-13-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Predsednik, Spoštovane Poslanke in Poslanci! Mr President, Congresswoman and Lords! Slovenians and Hungarians in Hungary and Slovenia remember Slovenia, Slovenia in Hungary and XX. The Hungarian and Slovenian literary world and its ethnography, history of culture, the cultural world of Vas county, on the 70th anniversary of the birth of Ágostonra Pável. The first scholar of Slovenianism in Hungary was a ethnographer, linguist, translator, writer, poet, teacher and man. He was driven by the intolerantness of his eternal creation, he worked extremely hard, he was cheerful, he was purposeful: he was the faithful son of two peoples, as Gyula Illyés called him, and he sacrificed his life to serve the culture of two peoples. Vashidegkut, in the village of today's Slovenia called Cánková - not far from the Hungarian-Austrian-Sloven border - was born in the former Vas County as a child of Slovenian parents in the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. His childhood reminds me of the fate of the Hungarian Slovenians. He came to the Slovenian Rába region as a small high school student, visited the lower four years in the Szentgotthárd high school just a few years ago, then graduated from the upper four years in Szombathely, the premontre high school. Through its origins, life, fate, and scientist thinking, for more than a century it has recognised the essence of dual identity, that it is not a division, but for the individual it is an internal surplus, the basic feeling of its life, its safety, that it is an attachment to a mother tongue, a mother nation, but at the same time the home country, its language, its culture, respect for its people, service, the strengthening of the values of the two homelands with knowledge and work. This is the foundation of nationality, a condition for the survival of small nationalities. Pável committed himself to Hungary after Ágoston's university studies. In addition to the Hungarian-Latin course, he gained the title of scholarly doctorate in Slavic linguistics by studying several Slavic languages in depth. A thorough examination and description of the language of the Hungarian Slovenians, the vend language used in the age can also be linked to this. He was also able to reconcile his eternal love for his Slovenian and homeland with the exploration, mediation of the values of Hungarian literature as a literary man and teacher in Tordán, Dombóvár and Szombathely as well as as as a university professor. He organized the library of the Vasvár County Museum in Vas county, establishing the predecessor of the Berzseny Library. He took stock of the Szombathely Museum's material, then the museum of Muraszombat, preventing it from being moved from where it belongs. His attraction led to the exploration and collection of ethnographic values and the idea of establishing a museum village in Szombathely. The local history journal Vasi Szemle is also a credit to Ágoston Pável. With his writings, he strengthened the example of the confession and intense experience of double attachment. In the activities of the man with a thousand wings, the mutual awareness of the values of the Slovenian and Hungarian peoples is a priority. [[16.10]] He wanted to explore the values of the intellectual and material culture of the region between Rába and Mura, as well as research into folk architecture, open-air kitchens, riggling, pumpkin, cologne and buckwheat cultivation as a linguist. The translation into Hungarian of Slovenian beauty prose Ivan Cankar's works also strengthens the meeting of peoples on millions of countries of the year, as we can cooperate with it, and we can love the person we know. Because we don't know each other enough. This leads to indifference, cool neglect, even sublime, but unreasonable demeaning. "You," said Pável. From his poetic work, the Slovenian Murántúl, the inexhaustible love of the homeland radiates, the devotion to God-given nuggets, to which the pilgrim always returned with awe. Pável's work is not being treated properly today, we should show more sensitivity to his work. The material of national knowledge, folk studies, linguistic themes, and regional culture should be the faithful son of the two peoples. I trust that the anniversary will focus more heavily on our country's scientist creator. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala za vašo v ljudno posornost!
u2016-09-13-102	Thank you, Madam Speaker. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group also came forward after the agenda. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-09-13-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk to you about a matter, a matter in fact in the constituency, which seems to affect only a small area, or, overall, two EU funds and treatment with EU money, but it is the case of a much larger area, and it may have a much greater impact. The reason I put it in the title is that Lake Tisza and that it is flat because both cases and the use of EU money are in some way not whole, it is not round, there is something wrong with it. Plus, one of them is related to a bike business. Starting with the first topic, we can find the case of the Tisza Lake Cycling Centre as part of a project that provides a complete overview of the use of EU funds in Lake Tisza. The Tisza-tavi Cycling Center is located in Tiszafüred, right next to the main road, which appears to man only because it was built in an inappropriate way in the image of the city, in the image of the landscape. It's a three-storey, maybe four-storey building with a bicycle to ride around, and a bicycle to drive up it. There were several problems in this project, not only during the construction and construction, but also after the completion date, there were constant renovation problems, constant innovations. In front of me, it was necessary to recreate, recreate and recreate everything, which, of course, was a great opportunity for the local constituencies' Fidesz politician to recreate this EU investment three or even a quarter of the time. But what is the most immortal or unheard of way of doing this is that it was not operational by May, although it was handed over, and everything seemed to be working perfectly, let alone by May and July, because there were problems not only that the operator was not found, but some say that even the power supply itself was not really built into this building intended for tourists. Then came the further problems, because they didn't really find too much of a function in this building, and in fact the function would have been to ride a bike up to the top of the building in a lookout, but it was built to be life-threatening to use it with a bike. So now, after handing over, we had to close this part of the bike, so the function that it was designed for is now untapped, and on the banks of Lake Tisza and the Dead Tisza is practically a building that cannot be used. This case also demonstrates the steep use of EU funds. But if we switch to another, also Tiszafüred, but rather to the whole Tisza Lake region, it is a very interesting section of the complex Tisza lake development. In the complex Tisza lake development, HUF 6.6 billion of the Tisza lake development amounts were used for the purpose of restoring the entire Tisza lake Medre and ensuring the walking of the water, the accessibility of the living world and the sustainability of the entire ecosystem. This was achieved by scavenging the area with considerable work, which, by the way, is at a certain low water level in winter and then being filled for the spring-summer period. Well, this dredging has been decided to build small islands from them in order not to have to depopulate as hazardous waste, so to put the mud that is going out here elsewhere. However, these small islands were washed apart by the flow of water, because they did not need to be engineered; it was enough to settle down on some riverbank with sand or sand, and to watch how the water carried away and other things, so these mud islands, which they had designed, were completely washed away by the water. Without any support walls or reinforcements, practically in the winter, the excavated material could be found again in the beach in spring and summer, so neither habitats can be created nor the Tisza Lake became more beautiful, practically HUF 6.6 billion, if you like, washed back into its territory. Both cases confirm that EU funds could indeed be used more wisely. If we had looked at the case of these settlements, whether Tiszafüred or the Kiskörök on the other side, Abadszalók or Poroszló, there would have been plenty of EU development money available for others, it could have been much better used in these bad areas, in difficult areas, instead of spending these money in defective programs, in useless bicycle centres and in mud. We call on everyone to manage them in a reasonable and fair manner when it comes to EU funds. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-13-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-09-13-105	Mr President, Dear House, Yesterday, I asked Mr. Secretary of State Tállai what was waiting for those who were about to be evicted, what fate the government intended for them. Mr. Secretary of State tried to cool me, not me, but the voters behind me, in his typical style of teaching, that if a person enters into a so-called foreign exchange credit contract, no one expects him not to take responsibility for it. No, that is not what we expect, but simply that the hundreds of billions between the exchange rates at the time of admission and the exchange rates of the Fidesz government are not credited to the banks, as they did, and not to beat them on Hungarian families, because the result is literally coming on the street in the form of broken families and amazing family dramas. Today, an 85-year-old great-grandmother stood before Parliament and demonstrated who, as he said in February last year, had confidence in the forinting and what Mihály Varga and Antal Rogán said would reduce their repayment by at least 20 percent and facilitate their position by the government measures that point towards settlement. On the other hand, the old lady is now taking turns protesting, to my knowledge, to the Curia, to Parliament and to other institutions, because her family members are about to be evicted. So, not only did the detail relief not happen, but the old lady, for an 85-year-old, is forced to protest and protest. I would like to add that I find it very interesting that the officers of the police, obviously following orders, did not blame the simple police, but they searched the old lady, searched the old lady, and asked her why she was there. In my eyes, it is a very dramatic picture of a country where great-grandmothers are to be feared by power, and it is quite incomprehensible why a lady with her family took 6 million forints for housing in 2007 so that the two great-grandchildren would not have to live in the same room as her parents. These are grandchildren of a girl and a boy, so it may not have been healthy in the long run. Finally, so that the two children should not live in the same room as the parents, and both should have a small room of 9 square meters, I stress, they chose to take credit. At the beginning, they had a repayment of HUF 38,000, which was taken for 20 years, and they could have paid for it, but as a result of the foreign exchange deposit, after 2010, after the Orbán government came into power, the amount of their repayment was slowly climbed to HUF 70,000, and this was an almost unfulfilled expense to the family. [[16.20]] So the total amount of HUF 7 million has been paid back to HUF 6 million, and they would have to pay back 12 million more. This amount may even increase, since there are still 11 years left in the term. So by the time the 20 years are up, they may have to pay back 20-22 million forints to the 6 million they simply wanted to settle their housing at the core. I would add that if the government had been open to a public housing and housing programme, this problem might not have occurred in the case of many thousands of families. But the fact that this lady must come to Parliament to demonstrate that the great-grandsons are not being evicted is simply an amazing insight into the operation of the cabinet, which you have created for us, called family-friendly by the current Orbán government. It is very important - I am now turning to the pro-government benches, as a pro-government representative is not in the room until then, but we trust in the record and in the word of history that it will remain, not only in the minutes, but perhaps in a slightly wider sense, that, at the time of the government's registration, which has been called family-friendly, more than 1,500 cases have been evicted since March this year. This data is a multiple of the previous, they want to crush the masses of Hungarian families. And in the next period, there will be 15,000 apartments for auction. Of these, 3,500 were already tried to be auctioned, but they simply did not buy it. And the fact is, there are over 140,000 people in those shoes that are very difficult or unable to pay off their alleged loan. And at least half of these individuals have completely lost the chance that, in addition to unequal, unfair banking conditions, they can at any time regain their original status as a family. It must therefore be said that this cabinet led the country into a social disaster, refusing to even see this through the alleged settlement of the banks. As a first step, therefore, we demand that the moratorium on eviction be ordered immediately, in order to protect all Hungarians of good faith and integrity. Then Jobbik wants to achieve - and will achieve - a fair settlement, according to which the funds taken by the banks will be returned to their original owners, honest Hungarian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-09-13-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, Member of the MSZP Group, also spoke after the agenda with the title "Remembrance." I give you the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2016-09-13-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The representation of people is very important, but we can add immediately, it is very difficult. We are experiencing this on the political stage, but mainly and especially, I think those interest representatives who struggle in everyday life for the well-being of people are experiencing it. Today, in Hungary - with a calm spirit - it is even more difficult or even more difficult to exercise representation. Fidesz did this. It has done so over the past six years, since it has produced a work law, conceived on 1 January 2012, which basically established and confirmed the vulnerability of workers, which has minimized the protection of representatives of interests and created a situation where people suffer tangible disadvantages. No matter what we are talking about, reducing or abolishing allowances, in collective agreements, for example, in the case of state-owned majority-owned companies where this is the case; the reduction of the possibility of a derogation from the basic law, the labour code in a positive sense, or the placing of the most disadvantaged employees in an even more disadvantaged situation; the salary of public employees of HUF 47,000, the possibility of non-calculation of their term of service in determining freedom, or even the non-calculation of the number of children in the establishment of freedoms. This is the world that is coming before us today, so today, who is playing a role with regard to representation, I have said that he is undertaking a very difficult task, and not only because he has to fight for wages, not only because he has to fight for employment growth - and not on a statistical basis, but in reality - or for better working conditions, but also to avoid vulnerability. Fidesz pushed people against the wall, the vast majority of people, but also union leaders. He's got a lot of people under control with the new strike law, and we could give you a thousand more examples. But it also eviscerates employers. It gives them one more opportunity, with one more - if they have the opportunity and the opportunity - to pull more skin off their employees. Therefore, in these circumstances, where it is not easy to act as a trade union leader and act in the interests of the people, fewer and less people are obviously seeking this role, which is why I think it is important to remember the work of Péter Pataky here in Parliament, who has passed away not so long ago, which we can only acknowledge with sadness, because it is an irreparable fact. He lived 65 years, he was taken by death. The former president of MSOSZ and MASZ passed away. 40 years in the trade union sphere; he started his work in the Capital Cultural House, a trade union cultural house, and between 1992 and 2004 he worked within the framework of the Advisor Service for Interest Protection, ÉTOSZ. Between 2004 and 2006, he served as Vice-President of MSOSZ and then as President of MSOSZ for a long time after 2006. In the last years, between 13 and 15 he was the president of the Hungarian Trade Union Association, MASZSZ. Péter Pataky was an integrating personality... an integrating personality, unfortunately I have to say so. His thinking was always focused on the working man. He worked for people with constructivity, and if he had to, he worked for people through conflict. He was professional, he didn't want to beat me, he wanted to convince me. He had the courage to judge the government or even the governments. Because he wanted better, he wanted better all his life, and to others, to those who do for themselves, and to those who work for themselves. We say goodbye to one of the key figures of the Hungarian trade union movement with deep compassion and shock. Rest in peace, Peter. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-09-13-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 4:28 p.m.]]
