u2016-11-09-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 19th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr. Attila Móring and Mr. István Szávay will help me with the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2007 Annex XVII on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. Act CXXII of 2013 on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation submitted by MEP János Pócs Fideszes T/12127. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-09-1	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The proposal that I have presented to this House as a motion for individual representatives aims at solving problems that have arisen in practical application of the law. Thank you so much for your support and inclusion in the series of articles. One of the problems that I propose to address is the extension of the legal land use case. Ladies and gentlemen, It's not the first time we've touched this part of the procedural law. A correction is now necessary again, as practical experience points to this. Article 18 of the NFA Act. According to Section 5 of the Land Fund Management Organisation, for a maximum of one marketing year, the Land Fund Management Organisation may conclude contracts for the protection of land, for the purpose of fulfilling its exploitation obligation or for the care of areas excluded from cultivation. According to my proposal, in such cases the entrusted land user may be considered to be a legitimate land user under the contract of assignment. Another regulatory element is the introduction of an official certificate by the notary, which can be used as a last resort in documents demonstrating legitimate land use, and in a limited way. The notary may issue an official certificate of land use legality only during the period open to the submission of aid applications. The proposal also addresses in advance the issues that arise from the legitimate land use of the succession of the budget bodies entrusted with the management of land assets. Ladies and gentlemen, These three regulatory additions would therefore be a necessary complement to legitimate land use cases. Another important practical problem addressed by my proposal is the sharing of undivided common land. The unanimous decision-making currently regulated in the Fétv., which is a condition for the development of land use agreements, unfortunately does not work in practice. Even though it is regulated in detail what should be done about the inaccessibleness of the owners concerned or in succession cases, sometimes huge ownership communities are virtually out of hope for the challenge of unanimous agreement. In my proposal, it would be worth converting to a two-thirds majority decision-making system based on the ownership ratio, where an increasing ownership community would also have a chance to agree on land use sharing. This system would certainly be more effective than it is at present. At the same time, it is clear that attention should also be paid to potential conflicts of interest which have so far been able to completely block land use sharing processes, since most of these are due to legitimate property needs. In order to protect such minority ownership interests, there is also a rule in the proposal that, in cases where at least 10 per cent of the owners disagree with the offer of the order of use, a qualified majority decision should be taken instead of a half decision. Hopefully, the possibility of an easier agreement together with the minority protection measure will provide a viable solution to problems arising from the use of undivided common areas, which will provide sufficient security for members of ownership communities in terms of proportionate enforcement of different interests. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said at the committee meeting on Monday, in the debate on the subject series, the best solution would obviously be to eliminate undivided common property, but by establishing a functioning system for sharing usage, I think we could take a significant step in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to facilitate the use of undivided common-owned areas, the proposal also lays down rules for the establishment of an extra-use agreement. This regulatory supplement is also necessary on the basis of practical experience in cases where a partner intends to use land larger than its own share in agreement with the partners concerned. In order to ensure a uniform interpretation of the law, the proposal clarifies that such an agreement will also be reached in cases where the owner exercises his pre-lease right governed by the Land Traffic Act. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal contains rather clear, logical, practical solutions to address these problems. I am therefore looking forward to the improvements and criticisms of my fellow Members, and I ask you to support my proposal with your work and then with your votes. Mr President, thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-09-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State György Czerván, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-09-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mr János Pócs's bill aims to fine-tune two problems. Legal land use cases for area payments were last extended by legislation in spring, but experience has shown that cases that may arise during the diversity of everyday life have been omitted. The legal land use institution is linked to the verification of the use of area payments. Prior to 2009, an application for aid for direct area payments could be submitted by the farmer who had incurred the costs and risks associated with recovery in the area used. However, according to EU requirements, Member States should ensure the existence of a legal relationship between landowner and applicants for direct payments, the parcel must be at the disposal of the claimant, which has been ensured by the existence of legitimate land use since 2009. However, with regard to the justification of this, a number of cases have arisen where the best-intentioned farmers have failed to meet the requirements laid down by the legislation because of some circumstances outside them, but have therefore fallen short of the acquisition of area payments. Unfortunately, the provisions of the relevant law currently in force do not include the temporary mandate contract of the National Land Fund, and it is necessary to ensure that the legality of land use in the case of state trustees applies to the successor even if the fact of succession in the real estate register has not yet been transferred. This amendment fills this gap. In addition, as a last resort, the farmer may ask the notary for a certificate in support of the fact of land use. These cases, which have been left out of the previous regulation, can be said to have a very small number of farmers, but it is very important for those concerned to have access to area payments. [[9.10]] The issue of ownership rights arising from undivided joint ownership jurisdiction also raises significant practical problems. In the case of a common ownership, according to the Civil Code, each partner is entitled to possess and use the property, but the use of an area corresponding to his own share of property requires the unanimous agreement of his partners on the geographical location of the territories of each partner within a common owned land. However, on the basis of practical experience, it can be said that the conclusion of usage agreements by unanimous decision-making often presents insurmountable difficulties for those affected. The bill seeks to ease these rules in the right direction by going along with the principle of lifelikeness, when it introduces, as a general rule, a halving majority decision-making method based on the share of ownership, which is accompanied by important provisions on minority protection, according to which the decision requires a qualified majority if 10 percent of the owners disagree with the offer on the order of use. Dear Parliament, Mr Pócs's bill seeks to promote two important issues in favour of farmers, to which I, too, and the Ministry of Agriculture, would kindly ask for their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-09-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2016-11-09-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As the rapporteur and State Secretary have already noted here, we would like to address two technical problems. Practicing farmers met both problems, unfortunately, if they were affected, in which they could not clarify a land use right, thus falling or slipping out in the time available to submit their land-based or other support needs and thus falling away from the EU funding source. This, of course, causes serious losses not only to the farmer, but also to us Hungarians and to the country, because leaving a source for us on the table of the Union is not good. For this reason, legislation has tried to make all land use rights as easily as possible, so that payment entitlements can be acquired at the same time. The rapporteur now proposes to clarify two cases that have unfortunately occurred in life. In the case of a contract of assignment, whether or not the land user is entitled to apply for land-based aid for one year at the same time. It's never been possible before, let's add. Now the author proposes that in this case, even in the case of a contract of contract, even if the use was obtained by order and not obtained through a lease contract, we should still consider this farmer to be a legitimate user of the land. This opens the way for the application for land-based support. The other would like to clarify a question which was much less clarified to the public that the budgetary bodies would sometimes end with succession or without successor; but what about a budgetary body which would cease with succession, had a legitimate land use registration, and of course he could have requested land-based support and other opportunities; however, if the budgetary body ceased to exist and its successor became a living organisation, the successor did not so far extend to the status of a legitimate land user before the bill. That is, the successor could no longer run for the submission of a land-based tender. We would like to clarify this situation that if a budgetary body ceases to succeed, then the successor should also be considered a legitimate land user and the way to submit the tender will be opened. The third issue is a little more exciting: proof of land use by the notary. I also mentioned this in the series of articles that I understand, we understand the possibility that the notary can issue a certificate to the user of the land at the last minute, in case of a time restriction, in case of an emergency, and that also opens the way for the application for land-based subsidies. We only had one suggestion here, and I would ask for a reassuring answer here. At the committee meeting, we were told that it is currently the Land Administration who can legally justify land use. Here another organ appears, this is the notary himself, who, as a quasi-official person, can issue a certificate in parallel with the land office. I asked for clarification that these two bodies, such as the Land Administration, which has so far been able to issue a land use certificate as a unique body, would be accompanied by the notary as a certification body, and that there should be no overlap between the two certificates, contradiction, debate, whatever the case may be. 'Cause that's when we put the arguing parties in an awkward position. Several times, an over-claim, claim, multiple claim for a given land was made, and the loser was usually found to be the rightful land user, but his new application and land-based aid claim was limited by a situation in which someone thought that even he had a legitimate land use opportunity, and with this duality the real legitimate land user's demand for land-based subsidies was halted. It could have been a one-year delay in such cases, unfortunately. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that it is clear in the administration procedure that the notary and the land office are not covering this work and not contradicting each other. Turning to the other large area: in the case of undivided commons, I would like to point out that we will be able to clarify this problem definitively once the undivided common property is removed and everyone's property will be in their own name. There have been countless variations so far, how we try to clarify the ownership and use of each property in its undivided common area. In the state of play before the current proposal, let us be clear, there should be a unanimous view of the use at present. This causes enormous difficulties, often in the case of succession, deceased, unpopular partner. Of course, there is also a solution to this in the current, currently live regulations. But I note that before we came to this variation, we had to have a completely unanimous decision between our partners on how to use it, in the pre-existing state, the decision was sufficient, and the present proposal returns to the shot decision in so far as it is novel that here, if there is a counter-interested party with 10 percent ownership, it will bring the decision up to a level of two-thirds. So it gives the minority opposition a very strong position that the majority can only clear the final land use with a two-thirds decision within the undivided common. I note that while the decision was of a simple half majority many years ago, there may also have been an undivided joint ownership of a farmer in a large unit, and the majority decided to lease the entire area to an outsider. [[9.20]] This could also mean that the minority owner, who would not have agreed with the lease - this was a farmer elsewhere in his own territory - had to face the fact that a theesutod corporation rents his land because a majority-owned decision with him rented the land to this public limited company while he could not cultivate his own land, the land of the ten or ten percent owned by it. So we were able to create a very unpleasant situation by providing enough for the use of the earth with a half majority decision. In English, a owner could not cultivate his own land because the majority owners also rented his continent to a public limited company. These are extremely extreme and paradoxical situations. I trust that this two-thirds, higher level, consensual decision will also eliminate these unpleasant situations. In any case, it is likely that on the practical side it will be easier to decide what the cultivation rate should be - although the ratio is clear - how the areas and the sharing will develop. At the same time, as I have said, the elimination of the undivided common problem as a real problem will only be once we name it, on which we make great efforts every year. The Fidesz fraction will support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2016-11-09-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the proposed legislation is to address some of the problems related to agricultural and fisheries aid that arise in practice. For example, experience gained in the application of practical law shows that the scope of the evidence provided under the Law on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures is incomplete, missing the mandate contract concluded by the NFA, and the issue of the succession of the budget bodies entrusted with the land is unsolved. In the same way, it is a problem that the undivided land of many actors presents in most cases insurmountable difficulties for those affected. Among other things, the proposer tried to address these issues. The individual representative's motion seeks to amend the provisions on the certification of legitimate land use. According to the proposal, the range of legitimate land users will be extended to include a contract of mandate concluded by the NFA, as well as a budgetary body acting as the successor to the trust registered in the real estate register. In the final case, legitimate land use may be justified by an official certificate issued by the notary within the time limit for the submission of the application and certifying the existence of land use. Those new provisions shall also apply in proceedings and cases in which single applications were submitted in the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. In the opinion of professional organisations, the proposed amendments to the MVH Act may be supported, but the part of the proposal which allows legal land use to be made possible by the notary with an official certificate certifying the use of the land may not only put the system of the land use register used, but also the land traffic laws themselves in brackets. With regard to the amendments to the proposal on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land, our perception is mixed, since good and bad things and changes are included in the bill. In any event, it should be assessed with a negative sign that the proposal clarifies the current dilemma as to whether the share of all partners in the system of use should be indicated separately. The proposal rewrites the concept of use, which in future will mean the location of designated areas for each partner in a common land corresponding to their share of ownership. Literally speaking, each proportion will have to be shown separately and striped. At the same time, it is proposed that an agreement on the sharing of usage may be omitted if the whole area of the land is used by a single person. This can be seen as a positive, since, on the basis of the text in force, it would only be possible for a single partner to use the entire area. The proposal also resolves the establishment of usage agreements in a unanimous decision-making order, which creates insurmountable difficulties for multi-partisan undivided land. Instead of making unanimous decisions on the current rules, the proposal would switch to a half majority decision based on the ownership ratio by requiring a qualified majority if 10 percent of the owners disagree with the offer on the rules of use. This would be a minority protection clause, if you could put it that way. The proposal does not affect the system of presumed consensus, which could make the agreement on sharing more realistic. However, the proposal does not address the issue of signatures. Due to practical problems, it would also be necessary to amend this because it is unlikely that a partner who actively expresses his disagreement will sign the agreement. Finally, it is proposed that the so-called "additional use agreement" can only be linked to an area for which there is already a valid system of use. The additional use agreement is linked to a separate map statement. The remuneration of the over-use agreement is not rent, so there will be no exemption. The Socialist Group believes that this proposal in the form of a motion for individual representatives wants to draw attention to important practical problems, but at the same time there are several solutions or several amendments that we consider to be mixed, and we have already said this in many legislative proposals, in a normal procedural order, which could have been prevented during the socio-professional debate in which it was presented as a government bill. We think that if we were not only to get a part of the system, but we were to try to change the whole system, even through a consensual agreement, where this could happen by consulting with the five-party or professional organisations, then, let's say, next spring, we could bring in a bill to the House that could practically solve the problems that come from life, from practice. For this reason, the MSZP faction will abstain, because we have repeatedly said that we cannot agree with the proposals tabled in the form of a motion for individual representatives. This proposal does not fully address the problems. We think there are far more problems than that. The proposal has eligible elements, but it also contains elements that we cannot agree with, because we believe that it does not solve practical problems. So, as I said, Mr President, the MSZP fraction is likely to abstain during the vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-09-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2016-11-09-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. There is indeed a technical proposal ahead of us, but in many cases this includes very important amendments for those concerned. We would have preferred to see a proposal far more comprehensive and capable of amending several laws before this House. I know you don't want to touch the land traffic law, while this infringement procedure and the whole of her husband's business in Strasbourg doesn't close, but it should be touched very much. On a daily basis, I receive signals from stakeholders, farmers, which points are not realistic and at which points they make their everyday life particularly difficult. This is how I encourage you to have the courage to do something about this regulation. Although this proposal partly addresses its undivided common problems, the problem is that these problems should not exist long ago, and we should not be talking about an undivided common among the walls of the House any longer, if they keep their promise and implement the programme for measuring the undivided commons, and for which, every year, some budgetary resources are set aside, but it seems to have been spent either in vain or far from achieving its goal, since it is still a daily problem in the vast majority of the country. I do not argue that we should help farmers in these areas every day, but I just want to say that this problem should not be brought here. With regard to NFA contracts, I understand why you want to deal with this situation, but let me raise it as an opposition representative, in many cases it has been discovered or assumed that these contracts were concluded completely unreasonably, because it would have had a suitable user, owner of that territory, only resolved so that they would rather have their own circle of contracts. [[9.30]] You may recall the times when there were rather great scandals in Parliament about land lease applications, when the NFA opposed the domain policy guidelines, at least those that you communicate at government level, assigned a user that was dear to it. I hope that this amendment does not come in because of them, for their sake, but will be applied only in long-term and justified cases, and that will be the case around state land. As I have already said, we agree and probably can support most of the technical amendments, and obviously we will make our final support conditional on the acceptance of the amendments, but it would be very good if they were sometimes so constructive towards the opposition, as the Jobbik fraction regularly does to the government. Let me just give you a few examples of what I submitted this week: cooperative law, which has been waiting for you for a long time, I would also like to examine the Hortobágy case for the first time, we are also looking for solutions to the problems of vineyards, and I have also made proposals to filter out the stroman system. If I don't mention anything else, Tolna County, it's the only county I've got now, according to my information, where Fidesz doesn't play the strobe system, but it's said that even he doesn't like it, then at least in these cases, let's make a difference. So it would be very good to see a similar constructive attitude on the part of the government in relation to these submissions, especially if they do not reflect political intentions, but want to solve the problems of those concerned. That's what I wanted to tell you briefly. I hope that they will also be open to amendments, because they are all meaningful and will indeed serve to help this draft law even more widely and to make it more practical and more realistic. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-09-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Sallai Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-09-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, This proposal, most of all, reminds me of the civil war doctor, whose original profession was carpentry, and when the people with the legs came to him, he always said that I couldn't heal feet, but I could make excellent crutches. It's one of these excellent crutches that the government can't handle the undivided common problem, but it's mostly trying to give a crutch that with some small and bigger mistakes, it might go away with a little limp. But this crutch, to tell you the truth, worries me because it proves the capitulation of the Fidesz government's fight with the undivided joint, practically giving up on making substantial progress. For six years there has been Fidesz government in Hungary. For six years each year, the budget has had costs related to the elimination of undivided commons in the order of tens of millions, and for six years there has been no meaningful results at national level. It could be submitted in 2012, if I remember correctly, for the year when farmers could apply for the measurement of undivided commons by emergency procedure. There hasn't been any meaningful feedback since then. In fact, let alone shut down the processes, the processes have become more stupid than ever. I say to Mr. Secretary of State, because he usually understands: right now there is an undivided common, the land office goes out to divide it up, finds an acacia in it, divides the cultivation branch, distributes the undivided part of it, and the other half remains in the undivided joint, and separates it from the cultivation branch, say, the acacia forest, and it is created there, say, on 3,000 square meters, with 120 owners another undivided joint. I can tell you this as a concrete example, this happened at the border of my settlement, they made two of one undivided joint, and the second, a 3,000-square-square-square-meter acacia was created with the fact that some of the owners could not express their value in the golden crown of the century. This is the current practice. They've brought worse than before, but there's no meaningful result. Technically, I think, but Mr. Secretary of State will help me in this, they started in Vas County, and Karcag was a settlement, who knows how lucky it was that this survey started in the former settlement of our former favorite minister, and there is no meaningful result. Technically, this proposal, which is ahead of us, is the capitulation of the government's recognition that the tens of millions of budgets in recent years have gone out of their budget, but cannot solve the problem, nor does it plan within a closed deadline, since the clear proposal of this proposal is to address legitimate land use issues with a lasting arrangement. I'm sorry, by the way, for talking about the government's proposal and all that, but I'm sure who believes that it's János Pócs's proposal. So, basically, I assume that this wasn't made as a motion for individual representatives. The discussion of the undivided common question would be appropriate, and it could be said that, having failed to meet any of the government's obligations, has removed ten million from the budgets of the past years from the FM's intended framework, it is now seeking an alternative solution. This would also be necessary, since in 2013, one year before the elections, when the EU legislative harmonisation notification processes stopped the certification of legitimate land use in the undivided commons and did this completely stupid rule, we indicated this several times after that. I am grateful to Mr. Secretary of State Czerván for at least realizing this year how many people were put into an awkward situation with the step No. 13 where they weren't dared to apply in 14 because the MVH, exercising equity rights in the case of the undivided commons, accepted the contracts with regard to the elections in 14 years, so it was possible to justify them in other ways, and the announcement of land office was not required. At the same time, I ask the author, the tax on ideas or the government that, if we know that each land user is required and necessary to report his legitimate land use, then why is there still a dual administration in the MVH system that farmers draw on a small map in accordance with the EU obligation and apply it while the land office already has legal land use. On the basis of such a principle, why should the issue of area aid not be linked to legal declared land use? This could be the least problematic and cost to farmers if the MVH were to take its course, ask the Land Administration to transfer the issue of legally declared land use and, if possible, distribute it on this basis. This would not create opportunities for abuses that were at the forefront of the MVH since 2013 - which my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös pointed out at the time - because it would virtually exclude this possibility, while in the current system, especially in the previous system, who liked to draw large blocks, requested support, and either fell or not. On the basis of my own experience, I can say that the system of checks at MVH has been very tight, but this has resulted in very slow payments and additional administrative burdens for farmers, since six to seven data reconciliations a year have practically taken whole days to show the representatives of the MVH one of these closed gardens or a small, undivided share of used parts. Overall, my first statement is that the reason I don't like this legislation is that I'm a little reluctant of it because it acknowledges that Fidesz can't handle its undivided common position. It's been six years, there's no treatment, and I don't like admitting it. I think that anyone who has had two-thirds of the time and otherwise has a stable parliamentary superiority could do something if they wanted to. That's the first thing I've ever been afraid of. The second thing I hesitate about is that obviously there is a simpler solution. That's what I'm talking about. If land administration were granted on the basis of legitimate land use in the land register and it was judged on the basis of land use, the administration of farmers would obviously be simplified in this case, so it would be easier to apply for this aid. So this is something that I think is justified in not being very supportive of. At the same time, I tell you the good news, not only to say the wrong thing: there is no particular problem in its directions. There's nothing wrong with it. Putting small Band-Aids on an ulcer system and trying to fix a little bit everywhere is a legitimate need. What I don't understand is that if we're here, and Jobbik and even the MSZP are saying that they want to deal with real problems, then why are we choosing Band-Aid solutions, and why are we not trying to find a general solution to deal with this issue, the issue of legitimate land use in the long term. I'm telling you what doesn't come out of the law. How will the contacts of the notaries to the MVH be complicated? How will what the Land Administration and the MVH, as the managing authority of the grant management body, ask from the Land Administration for legitimate land use be done at each notary separately? Will each notary record the legal land use certificates issued by him and then forward it to the MVH? I don't think so. This will be possible in one way: if the farmer, the land user, asks the notary for a certificate, and again he is the one sending it to the MVH. I think - I don't know - Mr Font Sándor or Mr János Pócs, one of them spoke about the methods of avoiding double administration. However, this method also means that farmers' burdens and obligations to take up office are increasing, and this basically raises the fact that this will help some farmers by giving access to area payments in an undivided group to some people, while at the same time increasing the administrative burden. However, forgive me, I am now in Parliament just enough time to believe that there is no good intentions behind the legislative proposals, and I wonder if it is a coincidence that this proposal comes here just after the completion of the land privatisation. [[9.40]] After undivided commons in a pile of places below linear tracks, valuable areas were sold... [[Sándor Font: The land privatization was completed in 1994...]] Unfortunately, the privatisation of agricultural land has not been completed, because you continue to sell the land and continue to sell the common land owned by the state. So, unfortunately, it didn't close. Public bidding is what they decided to close right now. But as my fellow Member, Mr Font, you know, they're about to speed it up, and we're not talking about stopping sales outside the bidding process. And while we are talking about the fact that we are not talking about stopping the sale of the land, of course, I have the right to ask myself, in the previous years I have always asked Bitay Márton Örsz, on written questions, how we stand with this forced recovery. It's a 10,000-acre scale that the state is supposed to have no other use for. If there's a normal-thinking government, it's not trying to do what I'm supposed to not be able to use through leases, I'm trying to sell it for the first time, and I'm not. [[Sándor Font: No...]] The one I can use by the way of rent? A significant part of these is in a place... [[Sándor Font: There was an argument about his ownership, that's the problem.]] If your ownership is disputed, then, I'm sorry... can this be a dialogue? I don't know how it works. So if what Sándor Font said was true in this case, then there would be virtually no legitimate owner of legitimate land use who would give us the opportunity to notify the use. [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] So right now, the possibility of forced selection in a large part of the cases seems to be nothing more than giving our friends land for coercion. [[Sándor Font: That is why what you just said is not true!]] In this case, practically once again, land privatisation is reappeared here, as a significant proportion of undivided commons have been sold on state property over the past period. Now, obviously, for the person to whom we have given a pile of land, we are now creating the opportunity for the easiest access to subsidies and the easiest way to get the support that is not available to him, after some administration, because of his own government. For all these reasons, since I do not see the good intentions in this nor the desire to simplify, all I can see is that again, in the interests of some narrower interest group, the government and Fidesz-KDNP are likely to want to expand the scope of access to agricultural subsidies, so I, too, am moving towards residence by joining my fellow MSZP Member. I agree that there is a real problem with the proposal. I agree that regulation is necessary, but the solution is to eliminate the undivided commons wherever possible. The solution is to reduce the administrative burden by linking the issue of legal, notified land use to the system of granting area payments. These solutions can also be used to move forward in this system. In all other cases, if these questions of support and land regulation arise, then I will join my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, and I say that the attitude of the Fidesz-KDNP is unacceptable, that every time he has a small constructive intention, he asks for the support of the opposition, and he asks the opposition to vote, while anyone from the opposition comes up with any proposal and goes to their committees with a request for a series of items, we are all involved in his superb, arrogant rejection because they can be smart helicopter drivers in this country. As a result, I think that if you give us a little bit of arrogance, if you listen to some of our opinions, and at the same time we can propose to treat some of the current anomalies, then this can be a negotiating basis and we can help together, or we can try to help together the opportunities for Hungarian farmers to access subsidies. But on behalf of the May Other faction, I say that at the moment, I would not like to support this proposal. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-09-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members shall not take part in the debate. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. No one has spoken in advance in writing. We now have representatives who have asked for a word in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group.
u2016-11-09-13	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Not to waste my fellow Members' time, but I would also like to say a few more things to this bill. In addition to the fact that Zsolti has given the group's opinion, so the abstention will be our position in this matter, I also agree that in a situation where we see that there is a complete restructuring, let us say with regard to the paying agency, it is likely that this should be based on a complex review of legislation. I continue to maintain that the government is playing a life-threatening game by eliminating this type of MVH. Regardless of the very, very many problems that have followed this operation, there are, among other things, a hundred criminal cases, which I started in part, because people have been appointed to the top of this office who have immediately taken advantage of the loopholes that, for example, this proposal would now try to close, and they have applied for all areas that others have not. And once they had access to the IT system, it became - apparently they had no control - that they had already caused about 100 million, but they wanted about 2 billion. Fortunately, this has been prevented. We'll see how it turns out. This proves that there is a flaw in the system itself, but I do not think that total abolition of this system and its classification as a government office is the solution. In fact, it is also incomprehensible to me, not protecting the leaders of this system, why, two months before the termination, it was necessary, say, to remove the two number one people, and now I hear that six county leaders, who obviously had too much to do with the operation of the system, were not involved in an executive function. So I don't think they could sabotage anything. I'm just saying this because there have been tractors in this area because of a payout where there's been about a month's delay or a maximum of two months. Last year, we saw that last year - and it may even be a year now - we didn't manage to pay a lot of support until June 30th, but we didn't manage to pay a good part of it, even to this day. I'm not talking about this year's advance. I'm talking about earlier subsidies. So, in Hungarian, this system would obviously need a thorough review, and I think the new organisation needs new legislation. I am not at peace with the hearing of Minister Lazarus, and the Secretary of State said that there will be a temporary accreditation by the end of the year, which will be accepted with certainty by the Office of the European Union, which is not such a big problem after all. The problem is, we can't pay you until you pay us. He does not accept it, and we risk more than 400 billion forints on direct support only. So, although this regulation touches on two or three elements, which is indeed a problem, but my fellow Member Sallai is right, it has also proved that the government has shown that the honey business that many people in the countryside have voted for, that it will measure the undivided common and that it has to be announced, I no longer know how many times the demand under the Fidesz government has been declared. Let's not do this anymore, because they really think everyone's stupid, and that's far from true. Plus, it's not even true that what would have spent 2 billion forints of money on this project would have left 1.5 billion of last year's remains, even more this year. In Hungarian, in this form of the system, I think, primarily due to capacity problems, it cannot spend more than half a billion HUF on this activity. And if this is the case, and there are no more surveyors, and there is no more capacity, then it was a pity to eliminate the method that was in our system, that anyone who proved that he wanted to do the undivided joint with some legal background should measure his land, not the one who asks to be measured, because he also announces who has 20 square feet and 50 square meters. And I think that whoever knows a little bit about this business knows exactly how many places he's in, and the lottery puts the stakes there, and then the next day, they get the stakes out, because for example, the whole board is made by one person. And on the boards where there's this type of use, you can only measure something because it's gonna make me know exactly where my land is, it's obviously worth two to three percent, but professionally, it's totally amazing. Think about it, I think that the lower limit of this measurement, when someone asks for it, should be to achieve the level of EU support, because otherwise it should be sought to avoid any further division. There was no step in this either, for example, to determine, in succession, that you could carry this story out further, so that 20 square meters would not be 10 square meters anymore. The other is that there should be a real sacrifice and a thorough assessment so that there cannot be a situation where the person who really is doing it and is in the undivided community, and then because of such an internal debate that this proposal is trying to settle cannot claim support, because that is the case. I would add that I feel the 50 percent decision-making competence in this is a little low. Okay, there's a correction in there, so if there's a 10-percent demand, that's two-thirds. 100 percent is unenforceable, 50 is at the bottom, so I think if we're writing such legislation, two thirds should appear here. [[9.50]] I think that would be broadly enforceable in this story, but once again, the whole problem is not dealt with in this proposal. There's a lot, a lot more. I also risk that the state should not have sold the land, but that it should have entered, for example, as a buyer or as an annuity, again into the undivided joint, in the sense that a person who has small areas and does not make sense in any way to stay there, buy it or acquire it, then block it, and then rent it to the person who uses it there. So this is what more money should be spent on, and not the country's money is now spent, let's say, on debt cuts. I'd like to tell you that there's a lot of money, 270 billion forints. By the way, the submission that our LMP associates have written has been prepared, and we have also supported the constitutionality review of this, because it still leaves something two-thirds if you put it in a shot paragraph. That's what I'd say about the NFA amendment. So I also think that we shouldn't unwind the system here, we should finally take a deep breath, especially since we've decided this unfortunate situation, that the paying agency, I don't even know what they're doing, because it's actually completely different, the Treasury is a different organization, whatever they say. There will be the end, and then the check-up, the preparation and all that, who knows where, keeping about two thousand people in complete uncertainty, this office is about two thousand people. This will not end well, I can say this calmly, not calmly, because it is a very annoying situation if we happen to have no European Union support for the profession next year, let us say. This really shouldn't be worth it. I encouraged the heads of the office to work until 1 December - until there is not much time left, another month - to pay everything as an advance, because it could be 70 percent that there would not be a problem for the sector to remain without funding next year. Nevertheless, I also think that, of course, sometimes we have to intervene in laws, for example, the following law is typically this way, but it also had a proper preparation, not such a grabbing an element as a stand-alone motion. I think that the whole system should now be reviewed even at this time, and that a complete new regulation can be adopted in this area by starting in February, because it is certain that there will be another problem in practice, which clearly makes it impossible again to apply for aid in certain areas, which is obvious to the person who makes a living and uses it, is unfortunate. So, fellow Members, this is also an offer that if such a preparatory work starts, we will, of course, be happy to participate in it, and that should be the end of a complex regulation at some point. There's a lot of law missing here, a lot of things from the plant law. I also see that our fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, has just taken steps, and he would obviously try to force by a parliamentary decision not only those rules that are important to so-called friends, but also rules that are important to the profession, which could then make this whole agricultural operation work, in which, let's face it, there is quite a problem. There is no day that I do not receive new signals about, for example, the problems of sales contracts for purchased land, not to mention the exercise of pre-emptive rights. There's gonna be a lot of lawsuits, I can definitely say that. Now they are imposing terrible levies on customers, because the tax office does not quite interpret the rules as we say, the legislator's intention is that anyone who comes into possession of the land bought will not accept that he will use it for five years, but will levy the levy immediately. These things will have to be settled, obviously these things, as I have always done, I will get them to the Ministry, because for some reason, I don't know why, from there they will never get an answer to these suggestions, as if they see enemies in everyone, and these are real ideas. It really bothers you, not those who buy land for billions, because ninety percent of their income is illegal, so it doesn't matter that you still have to pay 50 million taxes, I don't think it's a problem, but in those small areas that we never complained about selling, there's actually a problem if you even have to pay a levy on the big hard money, just because for a few years now someone else is using this land, and they're going to take possession of it. I would certainly suggest to Mr Secretary that you look into this, and I know that this story is not in his field, but this is going to be a serious problem, that is for sure. And I continue to claim that the exercise of the right to pre-emption does not work as described in the law - otherwise in a bad law, but now it doesn't matter whether the law is wrong or not, but at least we try to comply with it ourselves. So let's start another regulation, I think. Obviously, this is primarily the Ministry's job, but with experience we will be happy to help you if this happens. For this law, if possible, we wouldn't take a supportive guarantee. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-09-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State György Czerván. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-09-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, the author will comment on the opinions expressed here, but allow me to touch on one or two things on behalf of the FM. However, many things have been said here, which went far beyond the presentation itself, and my fellow Members have also touched on issues. Although Congressman Sallai R. Benedek may have concluded his speech by saying that he does not really feel the good intentions in this proposal, I do. Proof of legitimate land use is the basis for area payments and the fact that the notary has been brought in in the last place in the order - so it is important for the notary if the legitimate land use certification conditions before it do not work for some reason - I think it is helpful, and then how this will be administered can obviously be solved in a lifelike way. I also believe that the amendment to the undivided land implies good intentions and seeks lifelikeness. Several people here have said and criticized the government on this issue. However, I would like to point out to the attention of honourable Members that the system of undivided land is not the result of the work of this government. We inherited this system, and I believe that it is not questionable that we have made the most of our efforts, that we have spent most of the financial resources to move this system towards extinction, because I agree that it would obviously be the ultimate solution if the undivided lands were to cease. The fact that someone is submitting a motion for individual representatives, I believe that it is house-to-house, so that has not been a problem yet, and that will not be a problem, is still available to all my fellow Members. The problem I see is that there are EU rules, which, unfortunately, we all know, are in this area, that they are often very, very complicated and bureaucratic, but, as I say, the one who picks, the one who gives the money, dictates the rules, if we like it, if we don't like it. Another thing is that, within the framework of EU legislation, within the legislative framework of the common agricultural policy, in line with the EU's conditionality, we are not trying to put another shovel on complexity, so we are trying to simplify things as much as possible. Someone here said that the MVH was practicing fairness before; that's completely out of the question. The MVH, unfortunately, or thank God - I could give you pro and versus examples - but it has no right to be fair. A lot of disputes could have been resolved if the MVH had otherwise the right to exercise fairness, but the Union does not allow that. The constructive opposition was also mentioned. Of course, I will appreciate the amendments, we will give professional advice on the part of the Ministry to the rapporteur, but perhaps we should have played a constructive opposition role here yesterday, it would have been possible in a national matter. Returning to the thoughts of Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, I was a little frightened when he began to praise me at the beginning, and I wrote to myself that you should beware of the Greeks, even if they bring gifts; then, at the end, his opinion of the government and the Ministry was restored. I'm sorry that you see it the way you said it would. It is also a little controversial - and I am turning to my fellow Member, Zoltán Gőgös - to kick and punch the MVH on the one hand, and now we regret that the system will cease. [[Zoltán Pride: We're not sorry!]] [[10.00]] I do not want to repeat it, Minister Lazarus said at the Commission hearing his opinion on this and the Government's position on why the changes are necessary. Payments and advance payments are still in order and after 30 June of last year's payments, only those for which legality was not proven or justified have not yet been paid. The management of public debt has also been mentioned by Congressman Haughty. Of course, money from land sales could be spent on a lot of things. I think that if you hadn't taken the government debt from 53 percent to 80 percent between 2002 and 2010 [[Zoltán Pride: But now it's even bigger!]] Then perhaps there would be more room for manoeuvre, for example, to measure the undivided fields, and also to manage them. In any case, thank you, thank you for your opinions, and we will examine and consider the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP.
u2016-11-09-17	Thank you. It's just a very short reaction. Undivided measurement has nothing to do with public debt, because the government has been planning 2 billion for three or four years and can spend 300 million of it. So this is not a lack of resources, Mr. Secretary. The problem here is that the method you've come up with is that we're going every county, we're going to draw it, and we're going to measure its land for grass and trees, because there's no capacity for it. So it doesn't work that I'm going to fast-track another thousand surveyors for 2 billion forints of work! [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] There's no capacity! If there is no capacity, then the method, I'll say it again, was much better where it was measured on the basis of real demand, not because Aunt Mary wanted to see the stake, but because the real need was for me to do it, to know that it was mine, and there should be no debate. That's not what this is about. It's just that they pulled a honeycomb, and then there's no capacity... By the way, the full solution to this is indeed 20 billion HUF... [[György Czerván: Thirty!]] Maybe that's a little much out of 20, I think what's back could be solved, but that's not what we're supposed to do, but what we're supposed to do is use the source to get it from people where we don't even know who the owner is anymore, XIX. The company in my village has a contract with a man born in the century, Mr. Secretary of State, or would be, just because I don't think someone is 120 years old. So that's the problem with that, too. That's why I'm saying we shouldn't confuse the two with how much. By the way, I'm just saying, after 2010, the government debt increased, it didn't decrease, and we haven't been on the government since. Thank you.
u2016-11-09-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for another two-minute speech, Mr Sallai R. Benedek has now asked for the floor in a normal time frame. I give you the floor.
u2016-11-09-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for taking part in the debate and not doing so as a closing point. [[Zoltán Haughty: He doesn't know!]] But he's not in the position to do that, is he? First of all, you were able to say this phrase twice, first by making the most of the effort by this government, and second by making a great effort. But where is the result? So where is the result of this great will, the product of what has been achieved? Technically, the problem is that these words, that we've made a lot of effort and all that, at the moment, there's not enough if there's no concrete result. I fully acknowledge that Fidesz did not create the undivided joint, but it has not even been the last eight years, so this whole system, which has been suffering 20 years from the Hungarian farming community and the landowner society, should have been restored. The question here is not who created it, but what happened in the liquidation case. My statement was that six years have passed without Fidesz-KDNP being able to produce a meaningful result and that such legislative amendments are necessary because it is trying to address this deficiency. So the settlement of this would be, in my view, or should be, the primary objective of the government, and it would be a permanent solution to this problem, not with these detailed rules. The other thing I'd like to say is, forgive me, but it always hurts when I question what I'm saying. I have here in front of me the 2013 resolution of the MVH, in which it exercised fairness with regard to the notified land users, I am happy to hand it over to you. In this fairness, only in order not to have a negative impact on the vote or election of 14 I assume, because it never happened again afterwards, was the MVH when it issued that..., so the resolution is in front of me: the MVH may accept the following documents for land use certificates, the trust contract, the statement issued by the trustee and the documents of other types of transactions, the lease contract itself, even if it has not notified the land office and has also accepted the contract on the transfer of its right of use. So it was in one year, in the 13th year, when the applications for support from the 14th year could have been affected by this, and this could have been a scandal. So there was an example that this problem had already been dealt with, and this problem happened three years ago when it turned out that the system was so wrong. So it's not a new thing. I would like to respond to one more thing, and this is that, if I am honored by the Secretary of State's reply to my suggestions, it is still to say that the person who, I do not know, forgive the figure of speech, as he said, is ringing the terms; this is true, but we are sitting here because the detailed rules are that we can determine it. We have some room for manoeuvre within the given framework. At the moment, the use of this leeway does not go to the simplest administration. If there is an administrative or administrative body in Hungary, such as the Land Administration, where a person records legitimate land use, then a completely different managing authority - now that too - should not ask farmers for all the data. It is an administrative principle that the client should always have the minimum cost and the minimum procedural task. At the moment, the FM does not act this way, but asks the farmer for all the data, asks us to draw it on the map and confirm legality, and then we have to justify legitimate land use at data reconciliations, even though there is a system that records this. My problem was why we weren't going in the simpler direction, and why we had to get new certificates from the notary, the agricultural chamber, or anyone, if the land office didn't have it, why we had to push it on farmers when this could be settled without further ado. My concern is always that the problem here is that the land administration or perhaps the MVH may be able to pay land-based subsidies, for example more than once, where there is no legitimate land use registered at the Land Office, and there is obviously a question of why there is no land use. If legally registered land use can be made on the basis of the spring change this year for its own property or can be made for a legally concluded land lease contract, then it must be registered at the Land Office. I understand that in the case of a few thousand hectares, where ownership is completely unsettled, it is not feasible, but my question is why, in such cases, we consider the cultivation of land users to be legitimate land use, and such anomalies, as my colleague Zoltán Gőgös said - there are many of these, and there are mostly many of the undivided commons - these questions do not go in any way towards the solution. Forgive me, you have begun your speech by questioning the good faith of the proposal. I don't intend to improve the proposal, and I always question the good faith of the government, because my experience since I've been sitting here is that I can do this calmly, and there's always a basis for that. So this proposal can help in some situations, improve the farmer in some cases, but it does not represent a lasting solution, it does not go to the easiest solution, and it does not go to the simplest solution. That's why, if it's up to us, we'd rather find the best solutions. In the long term, I think it will be inevitable to amend the land traffic law, because at the moment, either the pre-emption system or the pre-lease system will make a significant contribution to the development of such anomalies. I obviously understand that if the government intends to continue to strengthen the large estate system, to further enrich its own green baron system, because the current civil law law on the market helps those who already own many places in a mosaicd estate system to buy land even more easily, and that would not be the goal for a normal government, but rather to help the wider employment and the proportion of agricultural employment growth, to strengthen small and medium-sized farmers, but it does not appear overall. I believe that this legislation offers small solutions to what would be involved in the joint liquidation of the undivided or the introduction of a land registry, land register and land use registration support system. For this reason, we are voting in favour of going in that direction and thinking together, trying to weed out other serious problems of the earth traffic law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-09-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, rapporteur on the agenda, to respond to what has been said in the debate in the closing section. [[10.10]]
u2016-11-09-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reflect on a few opinions on the proposal. On the constructive comment made by President Font Sándor, as he himself said in the committee, he mentioned that the official certificate issued by the notary would be unclear and in emergencies, as some of my fellow Members have said. With regard to the ground office and the notary certificate, the notary is relevant in the order of order. On this point, too, I would like to reassure my fellow Members that there is no contradiction and risk precisely because of the importance of the order. Mr Zsolt Legény's speech shows that he really understood and read the proposal well, and I also thought that there was some or significant good intentions in the expression and comments of the Member. He saw the problems precisely, as the proposal is trying to propose solutions to precisely these points. I know that in all areas of life, which is new, the foreigner, but I ask you to believe that your concerns about the notary certificate are entirely unfounded. What the Member has said as the object of the stay is that the system should be managed as a whole, you must know that the way to dealing with the system as a whole is one step at a time. Mr President, Mr President, you know that we are running out of cakes one by one and that the problem is solved one by one; I think that we are now trying to resolve a very significant step with this proposal. I regret that Mr Zoltán Magyar drew attention to the fact that he would abstain, and he did not give a particularly constructive opinion, because Mr President, pointing back the NFA contracts on the presentation is completely foreign to this subject. By the way, it may not be foreign to the fact that the NFA has concluded a one-year contract, precisely to avoid the dilemmas that you have said, and in a significant part of them, land-based support could not be obtained because of the problems. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Róbert Benedek Sallai concluded one of his comments that the faction could be different. Well, that's what we see every day in your faction is that there can be a different faction and a different faction leader. It would also be good to experience that the goodwill and good faith you have mentioned on so many subjects could once be different. Honourable Congressman, What you have said, I suggest that your speeches, or even this item on the agenda, take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Internet, look back, and perhaps you too will be convinced that you have not made any constructive opinions, constructive proposals. Your slashing and accusing of the past six years has about as much to do with the presentation as the windmill of the stolen and collapsing Turkeves to the east wind. Honourable Congressman, If you have concerns about the area aid, please read it again, and you will be sure that this is precisely the concern [[Sallai R. Benedict: Did you read it?]] to represent me. The relationship between the notary, the land administration and the MVH [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes. The president's ringing the bell. Sallai R. Benedek: Can Font Sanyi, not me?]] ; in this reference and in this order the notary will issue the final order certificate. Congressman, yesterday you complained that some kind of virus surprised the family, trying to use antibiotics instead of yelling, maybe that's what's working. The statement by Mr President that he constantly refers to the lack of good intentions, I understand your point of view from today's manifestation. You know, it's hard to believe someone's telling the truth if we knew we'd lie if we were you. However, the suggestion of Mr Haughty is professional in that he has a past, experience and competence. Of course, there is also a lack of goodwill on the part of the Member, because if there had been a proposal for a solution to the system contribution at the time of your State Secretaryship, he would certainly have done so. We are taking very important steps to change the problems in the system. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It worked, but you kicked it!]] Mr President, Congressman! By the way, it does not belong to the proposal at all, but allow me to comment on a sentence when you said that there were tractors in the square for a month's payment. Mr. Congressman, the tractors weren't in the square for a month's pay. They were because farmers felt that agriculture had two problems, had two enemies: one is the weather and the other is the MSZP government. I would like to ask my fellow Members to ease their conscience by supporting this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's what stupid talk helps! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2004 Annex XVIII on wine production and wine management. Act and CCXIX of 2012 on Mountain Villages. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/12230. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr György Czerván, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-11-09-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, the government has taken a number of measures to ensure that wine growing and winemaking remain an agricultural activity that provides a decent living. While providing broad support, the government has created a more favourable economic environment for workers in the sector by reducing administrative burdens. This work has not yet been completed, but we have managed to lay the foundations for the Commissioner. The conversion of the mountain settlement system has brought visible changes, while the benefits of the conversion of excise regulation will be felt by winemakers next year. The most important producer opinion on the future of the sector is whether the vine producers are willing to plant grapes, the winemakers are willing to renovate cellars and buy new machines. The use of support for installation and cellar renovation shows that workers in the sector are hoping for an effective future, trusting in the future of the sector. The bill before my fellow Members is another stage in this process. The Ministry of Agriculture regularly consults professional organisations and interest representatives representing winemakers in order to facilitate the day-to-day management of the sector in the legislative environment. The bill therefore contains regulatory proposals on everyday questions concerning vineyards and winemakers. The first amendment in the bill relates to plantation plantings. The exploitation of an agricultural area is determined by the plantations for decades. It is therefore included in the bill in order to allow vine growers active in a vineyard area to determine which plantation may be planted in order to maintain existing vineyards other than vine plantings. The amendment of the law does not contain a new rule, but only allows the members of the mountain village to have a decisive say in this. The current legislation did not contain precise provisions in this regard, which led to difficulties in the application of the legislation. The clarification clarifies that the mountain judge issues its decision to contribute or reject the land in question in accordance with the decision of the mountain village. Another amendment to the bill concerning vineyards is the abolition of the obligation to cauterise the vineyard in the case of vineyards, subject to the relevant EU legislation and in order to reduce bureaucracy. On the basis of the amendment, no prior mountain judge licence is required for the grubbing-up of the wine grape vineyard, the fact of the grubbing-up must be notified to the judge within 15 days of the grubbing-up. [[10.20]] The grubbing-up shall be checked by the mountain judge in the procedure for applying for a resettlement permit. Checking of plantings on the basis of the modification is checked by the mountain judge or call on the installer to change its installation permit if the installation is carried out differently from the permit. In recent years, harmful organisms have appeared in vineyards which may result in serious crop losses, while stopping the spread of harmful organisms can only be ensured by prevention. In order to protect conscientious farmers who apply plant protection correctly, it is necessary to find more effective means to manage uncultivated plantations. Failure to cultivation under the legislation endangers neighbouring plantations and may cause significant damage to crops, and therefore the bill amends the existing rules in order to ensure more effective enforcement and allows for grubbing-up not only in the case of the presence of quarantine pests which are dangerous from the point of view of plant health. On the basis of the amendment, a quick, efficient and simple procedure can be used to force cultivation or to eliminate an uneducated plantation that poses a danger to surrounding plantations, which is ugliness to the landscape. Within 60 days of the request of the judge, the owner of the plantation shall arrange for the start of cultivation. The judge of the mountain may use the legal possibility of fines and grubbing-up in respect of plantations not cultivated after notice. Dear Parliament, I have already mentioned that the change in excise legislation will result in a significant relief for most wine producers from 2017. The majority of producers are excluded from the vast majority of excise duties, so they do not have to continue to deal with simplified tax warehouse obligations. The amendment of the wine law in this context amends the delegated provisions in order to regulate the content of the register kept by small-scale wine producers, so that the administrative reduction can be continued at the level of the Regulations, following the legislation. In addition, the authorising provisions give the Minister of Agriculture the opportunity to lay down rules on wine competitions in a regulation. This provision is intended to further strengthen consumer confidence in wine. In addition to the amendment of the wine law, the submitted bill also serves to improve the mountain village law. One point is to strengthen the operation of the National Council of the Mountain Communities, the sector's most important professional organisation. The bill therefore clarifies the conditions for issuing a free certificate of origin. On the basis of the draft, members of mountain communities who are members of several mountain villages may receive a certificate of origin free of charge only if they have complied with the obligation to pay contributions in all mountain villages. Under the rules in force, this could not be verified by the ridge when issuing the certificate of origin. The bill gives the Secretary-General of the National Council of the Mountain Communities greater leeway in the proceedings for the position of judge of the mountains. On this basis, the proposal will be proposed by a selection of mountain communities, but it will be published by the Secretary-General of the National Council. The Secretary-General may take part in a selection meeting assessing proposals with the right of consultation. Thus, the Secretary-General's powers of opinion and proposer will be extended when selecting the person of the mountain judge. In order to protect the interests of vine producers and to facilitate the achievement of an economical plant size, it is necessary to amend a cornerstone of the Mountain Community Act. The request for the amendment was made by the National Council of Mountains to the Ministry of Agriculture due to the disorder of pre-purchase and pre-lease cases. The amendment regulates the exercise of the pre-sale and pre-lease right of the member of the mountain village in the event of the sale or lease of land registered in the wine grape register in order to facilitate the application of the law. At present, there are several debates on this issue, as the legislation on this issue allows for several interpretations in enforcement. The bill specifies that the exercise of the right shall be granted only to members of the mountain village with continuous members of the village of the mountain village in which the land concerned by the right to pre-emption or pre-lease is situated or in the neighbouring mountain village in the 24 months prior to the enforcement of the right. On the basis of the bill, the members of the mountain village can pre-purchase their pre-lease right prior to any other pre-purchase holder after the state and the farmer using the land, in the case of the sale of land registered in the wine grape cadastral register and in the case of leases. If there is no vineyard in the area to be purchased or rented, but the purpose of the purchase or lease is to plant a vineyard, the member of the mountain can enforce his right after the state and the farmer's partner and before any other person entitled to pre-purchase. In the case of land leases, the member of the mountain village may exercise his right to pre-lease after the former tenant or the farmer's partner. Dear Parliament, The mountain community law, which entered into force in 2013, clearly separated the administrative tasks taken over from the state in the mountain community system and the interests and municipal tasks of the mountain communities. In the case of the Secretary-General and the mountain judges, there has been complete separation, which works well in practice. This is not the case with the wine-growing level. The selection of a person who carries out tasks related to the local government function of the wine region was formulated as a legitimate need by the councils of the mountain village. At the same time, in order to ensure the effective exercise of the employer's rights, it is also necessary to choose a person who can coordinate the work of mountain judges in one or more wine regions, replacing the secretary-general. The current mountain community law gives legal authority only to elect the latter. The draft therefore allows the Mountain Municipal Councils to employ a wine-growing secretary at the initiative of the National Council of the Mountain Communities to carry out the local government activity of the wine region. The employer of the wine-growing secretary is the mountain council, and the president of the wine-growing council exercises the employer's rights over it. The functions of the wine-growing secretary shall be determined by the statutes of the mountain council. The Regional Secretary shall be appointed by the Secretary-General, the employer's rights shall be exercised by the Secretary-General or shall be determined by the Secretary-General. Its task is related to the work of the mountain judges and can carry out its tasks in several wine regions. With this amendment, the rules on persons responsible for administrative and municipal tasks will be clarified at all three mountain levels. The bill amends the rules on the transfer of personal data between mountain communities and other bodies and authorities in order to resolve the problems encountered in practice. Mountain community organisations play a decisive role in the performance of public tasks in the wine sector, so the transfer of personal data in this respect has made it necessary to supplement the existing legislation in order to deal with other administrative matters. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The vine-wine sector has started a very promising development thanks to a number of positive government decisions. Producers trust the help of legislators. The current amendment to the wine law contributes to preserving the results achieved so far. While the bill does not contain any substantial changes to the sector, the changes significantly facilitate everyday, smooth administration. The drafting of the bill is based on the proposals of professional organisations, which is why they expect the legislators to help them carry out their work effectively. I propose that the draft be discussed and adopted by the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[10.30]]
u2016-11-09-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2016-11-09-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State has indicated, I would say that, as usual, the Government has tabled an amendment which he has discussed with the National Council of the Mountains, and more than that, their proposal has been included in most cases. This is now almost the fifth year, if I pay close attention to this, because in the case of wine-growing and mountain villages, a substantive amendment will be brought before Parliament only if it has been discussed by the National Council of the Mountains itself and is supported by the vast majority of it. It's one of those proposals. It also opens both the laws governing the two major sectors, namely the law on wine and wine production, and also the law on mountain villages. I would like to put it together that there are, in my view, technical amendments and, in my view, substantive amendments in both laws. I would like to mention, first of all, the technical aspects that I see as technical; of course, some of the stakeholders may see as very important proposals. The Secretary of State presented each of them as his authors, for example, how, in the case of a vineyard other than a vineyard, a contribution should be given to the judge of the mountains and to the villages of the mountains. In particular, if, in the case of an area classified as a vineyard register, a person does not want to plant grapes, but should it be the fruity, perhaps forest, in particular the planting of the forest, in the case of the wine-growing neighbour, because of the appearance and damage of the wild nest, not to mention that in the case of a neighbouring plantation, shadowing and other issues may be a problem for the older vine farmer already present there. So this is an important but technical motion in which the procedure is re-regulated. I consider it technical when the judge can issue a free vineyard certificate, what conditions it has, how we have to pay the mountain community contribution to obtain the free certificate of origin. The same question is what data may be provided by the mountain judge in the case of proof of the right to pre-emption. There was a debate here, since a data protection rule had to be taken into account here, but the requirement of a member of the mountain village had to be taken into account, so that the mountain village could confirm that he was indeed a member of the mountain village for more than 24 months. There was a contradiction as to whether data protection rules should be taken into account primarily by the ridge judge or by the ridge member, in order to help him obtain this certificate in the case of a purchase of land, because there he would be in a different position if he could receive this certificate. The ridge judges have interpreted in half which law is stronger: the claimant's right to issue such a certificate, or the data protection rules are stronger. That's what's being settled in the motion. It clarifies, in other words, that the proposal makes it subject to a new and correct condition as to the minimum conditions and qualifications for applying for a mountain judge. It is proposed that minimum secondary professional qualifications or higher qualifications be required for possible nominations. And, as the Secretary of State has indicated, that the hierarchy should be applied at the level of administration, the proposal also allows for the establishment of the wine-growing and regional secretary, so as to make clear the chain and working relationship between the secretary-general, the high-point leader and the mountain judges at the end. I have called these so-called technical issues; in the other part, I dare say that these are essential measures which, on the one hand, will affect almost all members of the mountain village, or a very large number of stakeholders will be involved in a procedural order if this proposal is adopted by the referral. For example, you don't have to apply for a preliminary grubbing-up permit now if someone cuts out their vineyard. For the record, until now, someone wanted to cut out their own vine, and they had to ask permission from the mountain village in advance. After its approval, it was possible to carry out the grubbing-up, and then it had to go back after the grubbing-up with a justification report that it had now completed the grubbing-up. It simplifies this and represents an administrative reduction and a reduction in the burden for each member of the mountain village, who may be engaged in the renovation of a vineyard area, i.e. cutting out the old vineyard and installing a new one, so that he can now do the grubbing-up without a permit, but within 15 days after the grubbing-up has taken place, he is obliged to declare that the grubbing-up has taken place. So you don't have to ask for prior permission. One less pain; I would say we reduced the administrative burden by 50 percent for the member of the mountain village. The other area, which I consider essential, is a very big problem, is the treatment of uneducated areas. A logical motion is made by the author as to what happens in those uneducated areas - an uneducated area, I stress - which causes great annoyance to the surrounding farmers, an infection goose. It is extremely difficult for the farmer next to it to protect the grapes if an infection goose is physical at a distance of a few meters. Unfortunately, these sometimes develop, sometimes because of ownership uncertainties, relationships, and sometimes because of the farmer's slobs. The proposal states that if such an area is not cultivated for at least a year, then the judge of the mountain, I might say, will perform his duties and call upon the owner, the owner, to begin cultivation and to justify the start of cultivation, or if he has given the right to cultivation to someone. You have 60 days after your notice. I note that I will make an amendment to the 30-day confirmation, because if I assume that around May we will notice that a vineyard area has not been cultivated, and then we will call upon the owner to cultivate it, and we will wait for 60 days until he can confirm what is happening to him, it will be August, when it is virtually pointless to start cultivation, everything is rotted and destroyed there. So I am going to make a proposal here with an amendment if other administrative rules do not replace this, which I may not know, so that you can respond here with a 30-day deadline to what you want to do with this area. If you do not continue to cultivate after this request, the judge is obliged to impose a fine of HUF 200,000, so there is no conditional situation for the judge to consider what to do, to impose a penalty of HUF 200,000/hectare, and if nothing happens after that, you can initiate the forced cutting from 1 May of the following year. The logical sequence is correct. I'd like to make another amendment here on the influence of the fine. As I understand it, in the present state, the National Council of the Mountains would be entitled to a fine of 200,000 forints/hectares imposed. I suggest that this should go to the local mountain village, so that the local judge has an interest in actually acting in such uneducated areas, and if there is no solution to force cultivation, the fine of HUF 200,000 imposed will enrich the local mountain village's cashier. [[10.40]] The other area, the areas of delegation, is Article 8. The Minister, the Ministry, is empowered to adopt further legislation. I would like to highlight one thing here: the content of the register kept by small-scale wine producers. This is going to be a very exciting question. Since 2015, the Grape-Wine-Pálinka Sub-Committee, which I have led, has initiated that, once the large-scale amendment of the excise law has become known, this has been done, we will include and codify the excise position of the wineries and introduce the small-scale wine-producing category that is also used in France, Italy and Austria. Laughing: it can be called a small-scale wine producer who produces quantities below a thousand hectoes per year. The point is that these small-scale wine producers in these Western countries are subject to a completely different administrative procedure, i.e. much simpler, than producers in over a thousand hectoes, who are indeed obliged to comply with all its rules in the excise system. The legislator has accepted the argument of our subcommittee, it has been included in the change in the excise law, the small-scale wine-producing conceptual circle has been established, and the entire administrative and descriptive system of this new status is now authorised to work out by the Ministry. I hope that this administrative facilitation will really be felt by producers over a thousand hectoes. To mention, 80-85 percent of all Hungarian wineries, which are in the vicinity of about 6,000, can be included in the small-scale wine-growing category due to production below the thousand hectoes. We expect a huge administrative reduction from this measure. Perhaps the most exciting issue is the re-regulation of pre-purchase - Minister of State also said. I consider this a very important and embarrassing question. It is well known that before the entry into force of the Land Traffic Act, the rule was that anyone who wanted to buy a vineyard from a member of the mountain village and a neighbouring member could do so without having to be suspended. It had such an advantage - and we wanted to keep it logically - that anyone who wanted to buy a neighbouring vineyard as a member of the mountain village and also a vineyard should not come in there, as the most logical thing is the union in the further activity of a member of the already mountain village, if he could buy the grapes - ahead of everyone - from the neighbouring mountain village member. However, as a result of the creation of the Land Traffic Act, this rule has changed somewhat: although the currently living law has provided an advantage to the member of the mountain village in his current state for pre-purchase purposes, it has made it equal to the producer of the product with a geographical indication and to the farmer with the livestock establishment after the State and the land user. Thus, the strange situation arose - and unfortunately, there are court cases now - that the member of the mountain village who wanted to buy the neighbouring vineyard was, in a word, registered by the owner of a livestock establishment or perhaps by a farmer who would produce a product with a geographical indication. We would clarify this situation clearly: the proposed legislation states that a member of the mountain village who has been a member of the mountain village for at least 24 months in a given mountain village is entitled to pre-purchase, and that the land is adjacent to the land that the neighbouring mountain village member would like to sell. Of course, this land is classified in a vineyard register. And he's ahead of everyone else, after the state and the land user. So you're saying that you're ahead of everyone else, and that's the point, that we've created a clear and clear situation. However, since this also establishes the question of pre-emption order, a law which can be taken by a quasi-50% majority of the votes, because that is the case with the Mountain Community Act, the legal position is that this is the only stage, this is the 12th. A two-thirds rule shall be adopted only. I also took the initiative of our opposition fellow Members to contribute to the two-thirds majority. We want a very clear rule for vine producers, I trust in cooperation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-09-26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Congressman!
u2016-11-09-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Sándor Font indicated that it was customary to prepare for this law; I would remind him of the bill that he had once learned from me, a few years ago, that he had submitted a fellow Member, to regulate the villages of the mountains. [[Sándor Font: It has been corrected...]] True, that was over five years ago. I would add that I also believe that this proposal in this current legislative spree is a fresh spot. So that's all I can say. Because this is what I think a bill should be made in a normal country. Obviously, all legislation will sooner or later reach the level of application of certain corrections based on the experience of implementation. This is normal if those involved who are involved in the implementation of this work are assessed and collected during the period which is either contradictory - and my fellow Member mentioned here in connection with the pre-emption right - or are corrected, as life rewrites certain things. And what goes towards simplifying administration is obviously a highly eligible thing. That's how it happened. We have received the letter from each faction of the National Council of the Mountains, confirming that this is indeed a well-prepared bill, and asking the factions, especially the two-thirds part, to support it as far as possible. There is nothing wrong with that; I think that the support for this is very likely to be okay, although we have not yet decided on a faction, but I do not think that there is an obstacle to that, especially because of what concerns a paragraph, and specifically mentioned by my fellow Member, in the exercise of this right of pre-emption, we have also received indications that it is not always normal for a person who has the same pre-emption rights in another branch of the vineyard. I absolutely agree that this should be corrected. I also think that it is a major step forward that forced cutting can be applied to uncultivated plantations. You're in many places in the country, and you're dealing with the disfigurement of very frequent resort areas, that we've been seeing uneducated areas for years or decades, purely because there's probably a plot speculation case behind it, you don't want to do it, but you don't want to sell it to people who might be doing it. Therefore, I also believe that a more decisive step must be taken in this regard. The only thing that is not quite clear to me here is that the Secretary of State may be able to answer whose expense this will be done, who will be the body to do it. Obviously, you can order this anywhere, but it's not clean, and it might be helpful if these types of fines were to be carried out locally, adding that with some co-financing, because it may not be before the fine, to place it in the mountain village itself. And there's a capacity for that, because obviously, vine owners, who sometimes exchange tools or exchange plantations, have the capacity or the technical possibility to do so. Maybe it would be best if it stayed together or stayed in one place. But you can obviously refer to it in a vr., and it can be solved, so it may not be necessary to state it in law, but it is good to clarify that. And it is also clear that new diseases have also come in with regard to the production of grapes, which would make it almost impossible if this type of plantation remained in the environment. This needs to be taken very, very carefully, and I think it is in everyone's interest to have these sorted out with new breeds, more sellable and normal breeds. Which is a bit disturbing for us in this bill, and we will also be presenting an amendment in this regard: I also see the Chamber's push in this area. It is well known that we do not like the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy very much, because it is a body chosen from a very narrow circle. In the reporting area, the Chamber will also be included as to who to report the data to. We'd take that out of it. I believe that there is enough of a mountain community system, there is no need to impose a separate administration on farmers to have this type of relationship with even the Chamber. In fact, I would also suggest that the bar fee may be deducted from the mountain community contribution, so that we do not make double taxation in the sector, because there is no such thing anywhere else. I would add that there are only voluntary payments in the other places, but here the contribution is compulsory and two mandatory payments for similar services... - to be more precise: one without service, because I do not think the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy does a lot of services. I think it should be considered that way. [[10.50]] We also agree and will support the amendment that my fellow Member, Mr Font, spoke about, that the 60-day deadline for feedback is indeed long. If it doesn't violate any other legislative or other laws, I think 30 days is enough. There's no point in pulling this. If you don't do it, you can take it in a much shorter time, and you don't have to leave it for two months. I think that this bill has included, in general, the problem management that has taken place during all the rounds that the profession has actually indicated, and that it has really moved in the right direction; I mean, from the reduction of the administrative burden on the small-scale category, to the change in other control entitlements. I very much hope that this will also bring results in the implementation that the lives of farmers will be made easier. Once again, this is a proposal that has been prepared as it should be, and I can therefore say with great certainty that we will support the adoption of this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-09-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-09-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would also like to start by saying that it is a normally prepared draft, that the opinions of both the profession and opposition parties have been sought, and, as I have noticed, most of them have been included in the proposal before us. It would be good if all legislation were prepared in a similar way. Then perhaps this proposal would not be lying before us, because it would have been possible to correct these problems in the context of previous amendments. Jobbik is very pleased that we will finally be able to make a difference in terms of winery - in administrative terms - between wineries producing smaller and fewer hectolitres and large, I can say that multinational wineries, because in practice this has caused serious conflicts so far, and it was incomprehensible why a family winery has to comply with the same conditions as a winery that often, like, bringing in a significant amount of wine from Italy, is practically flooding the shelves of shops with the table category. The Jobbik support this. But the point will actually be seen in the implementing regulation as to how much they can translate the letter of the law in practice, more precisely, how much they want and how much they want to make life easier for these winemakers. I also hope that all stakeholders will appreciate this opportunity and do not abuse it, because there are also actors in this profession who will see a sure opportunity in these facilitations. But we are confident that they will be minimal, and we will be able to control their movements. We also support the two-thirds part, at least I do not have the opposite information so far, because I also think it was necessary to take action. Nor could the legislator's intention, which, in the context of the Land Traffic Law, was in practice shown that the pre-emptive right of an animal keeper was superior to, say, the neighbouring member of the mountain village. I don't think that's gonna be a problem. It is definitely a positive amendment. I'm sorry we just got to see this. I think it is important to say that the new amendments that Commission President Font said about are positive and forward-looking, both in the case of uncultivated areas, to reduce the 60 days to 30 days, so that there is so much reaction time for the affected. I also believe that 60 days is too long, and it actually results in a full year being lost in respect of the plantation and, above all, the neighbours, because there really is a serious negative impact on farming on a neglected area. The fact that the amount is placed in a local cash register and used locally also strengthens the direction for decisions, problems, and revenues to be made locally, and the mountain community must be interested in keeping its own areas in order. We will present our other small amendments by tomorrow's deadline, but in summary, I can say that the proposal before us must be supported. Yet what is causing a lack is again what is not included in the legislation that we have just discussed. Vineyards in some regions of the country have had serious difficulties this year, and their proposals for solutions have certainly not reached your ears, or at least they have not been put here, within the walls of the House. It is absurd, however, that there are areas where they have been working at loss for years, and their activities hardly cover their cost. Let's face it, that without a normal vineyard society - self-sustaining, who sees and wants to invest in its future - it is not very possible that the old reputation of Hungarian wine, which has already been restored, can be long lasting, and that it should be saving for everyone, because, as I said, the reputation of Hungarian wine is indeed returning, but it cannot be maintained without Hungarian grapes, and the vineyards complain very much. We have received a lot of proposals for solutions that I have tried to send to you in the form of a written question or a decision. No wonder, then, that there are so many voices that they are organizing protests again, because they want to give their rightful people more space and get more attention than the government. I can only encourage them in this regard, because despite the demonstrations last year and the year before, they have not achieved their goal. This is mainly about the possibilities of Italian wine. I don't know why the vineyards couldn't have received meaningful answers to these suggestions. We are all aware that, in the context of the European Union, the restriction of trade, in a subtle way, is difficult, almost impossible, but interestingly, many European Union countries are able to solve this problem by means of official tools and other solutions that have been outlined by the representatives of the Hungarian vineyards. I would like to see the next legislation before the House on wine grapes that deals with them, and then I think that the picture could be complete, and that all opposition groups could rest assured that things are going in a direction that would be expected in this area. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-09-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek of Sallai, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-09-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, By examining the legislation, we see that this amendment seeks to remedy the necessary steps in several places of the two legislations concerned. It places the issue of incomplete regulation so far in mountain villages, just like in the case of land pre-emption rights, which might have been justified earlier. It is particularly good for the latter, because it has been inadequate so far and, as we have heard from the proposals, it has given rise to abuse. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The fundamental directions of the amendment are, in our opinion, good, although we obviously have the question - which I am asking to Mr Font Sándor, who is an expert on this subject as a practicing farmer - whether this amendment solves the problems of the wine sector. [[11.00]] In fact, it would be good for initiatives of this kind to go hand in hand with a more comprehensive rethink to contribute to solving problems and anomalies in the sector, not just addressing a small problem with detailed rules. If my fellow Member Font is of the opinion that yes, all problems are now being dealt with in the wine sector, then we will be happy to support this proposal, but if he acknowledges that many problems are still to be resolved, it would be good to discuss them. Indeed, the uncultivated parcel in vineyards cannot be allowed, since it destroys the work of others with the risk of infection, so this is a perfectly legitimate suggestion. These contagions have already caused a lot of trouble. This is solved by the sanction system proposed by the law, which ultimately ends with the grubbing-up of the plantation. However, in cases where the plantation which has been abandoned and become dangerous is part of a large table, intervention of more than 60 days should be possible and it should be possible for mountain judges to protect coercive plants, of course burdening all costs on the registered user of the area concerned. In this regard, I would like to report to the authors that, if they do not take this as an intrusion, it is precisely Article 13 of the wine law concerned. With regard to the provisions replacing Article 4 of the proposal, which is now Article 4 of the proposal. As set out in Section 3 of this Article, I would like to make two or three minor clarifications. This may, in my view, improve the current text. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The ridge calls upon the owner of the wine plantation, as amended. It might be easier if it were only the term "supplied" because it is not always exclusively such a problem, but many other problems known locally, for example health, because the absence of a farmer does not necessarily mean complete abandonment. It could also be clarified in paragraph 3 if you consider it appropriate, as well as the rapporteur, to consider it. If the wine grape plantation owner does not comply with the obligations set out in paragraph 2 of this Article, the current regulation provides that the judge impose a fine of HUF 200 000 per hectare for failure to cultivation; therefore there is no weighing but imposing a penalty. This should be refined by ordering compulsory plant protection in order to protect neighbouring areas, at the request of their users, the cost of which is pre-empted by the mountain community, and collecting the collection of taxes from the registered user of the area, in addition to imposing the fine. This may make the current text a little more flexible. Please consider whether it is possible to do so. However, it is also a problem that the size of the wine-growing area in Hungary has been decreasing since the early 1990s, and unfortunately this trend continued in 2015. This proposal only responds to a very, very small segment, and it would be good for the expert Member of Parliament and the wallet to combine their heads and think about what further steps and opportunities they see to address this problem. Within the identifiable area, the share of individual holdings has also decreased, while the share of the enterprises shows little growth. The wine growing of Hungary has been going on for centuries, and the wine sector is still significant in our country, although it is in severe decline. According to this year's background study by the National Council of Mountains, Hungary's wine-growing areas have decreased by 15.1 percent since 2003. This decline occurs mainly in the area of white grape plantations, which decreased by 18.6 percent, but also reduced the production area of blue grapes by 5.8 percent. In our opinion, the proposals for managing these and assessing the national economy, agriculture, agricultural policy and the situation have a need and scope, and it would be very good to see the legislative will in these areas, whether from the portfolio or from the pro-government parliamentary representatives in the field, since a significant part of these problems could be tackled by means of tax policy, support policy and legislation. If you take into account the average live work needs of one hectare of grapes, this expert opinion is that 714 hours of work per hectare, that a person's annual working time base is not exactly 3 hectares of grapes, it can be seen that in the last 13 years alone, thousands of jobs have been lost with the reduced area only in the production of grapes. These were rural jobs, which are mostly an alternative to public work or foreign work, so the development, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the sector in this case creates a lot of tasks for the government. This is accompanied by the fact that the disappearance of additional products is also a fallout for producers, which could be significantly corrected by a strategic change of approach. The bill therefore facilitates the grubbing-up of plantations which have become dangerous to the neighbouring vineyards, but the cessation of the production of grapes has mainly affected the area where there is no association to eliminate the disadvantage of the small farm. Unfortunately, the basis for all this is the Fideszes-KDNP anti-cooperative policy, which roughly hinders such economic cooperation. This should be changed substantially and structurally, probably not only in the wine and grape areas. Although the government does not say this in words, the current government has really done much to prevent the domestic adaptation of the EU-Conform cooperative model since 92 by actively excluding legislation and subsidies. Although it is not said that they do not want to do this, all the experience so far shows that the real intention is obviously not there, although it might be a solution to some of the problems. Progress is being made in the national rural development strategy. I asked this in an interpellation this week, which is one of the indicators in which there is no meaningful progress, and it seems that the government does not intend to carry out its task in this regard in the resolution and strategy adopted by the otherwise ruling party. Finally, the amendment further strengthens centralization efforts, although the autonomy of mountain communities has been in the past for years. According to Politics, the centralization mania of the Fidesz government has also reached the Hungarian wine sector since 2010. Here, he raised only those close to him, the star winemakers, in important positions, mostly only their opinion is important to the government. The opinion of very, very many small winemakers fades, in most cases, even if you listen to them in a significant part of the production area, in the vast majority of farmers' involvement, unfortunately, legislation does not take into account the everyday opinions of winemakers. Social activity in this area is certainly not a coincidence, as winemakers can be expected to act in this way in the near future. According to the LMP, wine-growing and wine-making could help the development and catching up of the Hungarian countryside in a much stronger way to create, maintain and create jobs in rural areas. This would require a wiser sales policy, the development of a local product system and, in any case, the strengthening and support of the sector. If the government considered the LMP and the other opposition parties as partners, we would be happy to cooperate in this further reflection and, in other directions, with the amendment motion, we would find the legislation tabled acceptable. I would ask you to give any consideration to this amendment in substance. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-09-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Sallai. With respect, I welcome my fellow Members and signal that we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman Peter Konya.
u2016-11-09-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite terrible that, during the other half of the Fidesz governance cycle, we must say, and several of my fellow Members have pointed out that the type of legislative process that has now taken place in the context of this law is exemplary. This would be the normal legislative process, however, for both interest representatives and professional organisations to carry out prior consultations before submitting a legislative amendment or package of laws, which, fortunately, have now taken place in this law. I, too, regard this as positive, and I think it is quite regrettable that this should be called exemplary, because if this were a natural process, then this country would function normally, and then this Parliament would function normally. At the same time, I must also confirm the words of President Sándor Font and the words of my fellow Members that, in preparing this law, there has indeed been a professional consultation with both the National Council of Mountains and professional organisations, as well as representatives of the opposition and winemakers. As a result, it can be said that there has been an amendment to this House that really reflects the opinions of both professional organisations and winemakers. However, I must say that I was pleased to hear Mr Font's proposals for an amendment. It seems very realistic to reduce the reporting obligation from 60 days to 30 days, and I think it is a very good proposal that local mountain communities receive the amount of the penalty. [[11.10]] This can indeed be a motivational thing for local mountain communities to control and actually implement this kind of legislation. I would certainly like to support this. However, with regard to the amendment of the law in the last few days, I can say that I have consulted the larger and smaller winemakers in almost all regions on the current situation and problems in the winery and sector, and allow me to draw attention to one or two things concerning this amendment. Many of the winemakers have indicated that it is completely unnecessary to introduce the status of regional secretaries and to operate this at all, while, by the way, the judge is increasingly burdened, and the amendment of the excise law itself and the amendment of this law leaves new tasks and functions to the mountain judges. In fact, what local winemakers see is that the ridge judge will be less and less able to perform the tasks we entrust him with. They need to be reduced in some way. On the one hand, they see that mountain judges can become small local kings, since they have received extra licenses both to amend the excise law, and in connection with this law, the ridge judge, which is virtually beyond what is necessary in the local mountain villages and in the local area. Otherwise, it would be appropriate in some way, even administratively, to do their job in order to be able to provide and help effectively. It also occurred to me that, after the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development has now ceased to exist, many people are being shoveled, so to speak, that the professionals there could be used to assist mountain judges in the mountain villages on the part of workers who are being laid off. At the same time, it has come up, and I would suggest that we consider this in the future: it was a very good idea to create mountain villages. At the same time, this is an organization in Hungary at the moment, which operates according to the law, but it does not function as it should. I have spoken to several members of the mountain village, even a leader, who have said that there are hundreds of winemakers who are close to thousands of people in the mountain village, while tens and twenty-five people attend meetings and meetings, and so make decisions, and this mountain village does not work as it should. It should be considered what legal motivational tools could be introduced in order to allow mountain village members to take part in decision-making. This could be motivational or even sanctioning. So it's not just a right to be involved, it's an obligation. This, I think, would, by the way, facilitate further development of the wine sector. It is very important, and many have indicated that there is an extraordinary interest in the implementing regulation that winemakers expect in the context of the amendment of the excise law. This is assessed positively in particular in relation to the issue of small-scale wine producers, there is a great deal of anticipation, and they very much expect that the administrative reduction that we have promised in relation to the amendment of the law will indeed be achieved on the basis of the implementing regulations. At the same time, I think it is important to mention that there is a need - and I also look forward to it with interest - for those loopholes which are in the system at the moment to cease in the context of the implementing regulation. A little bit of the winery works like a tickle in a mill game. So far, the winemakers have basically been pretending to operate more excise tax warehouses. You must inform the winemaker five days before the inspection that excise controls will be carried out by the tax authorities. After several excise warehouses were operated at the same time, several people did this. As soon as they were notified of the inspection, the whole had been transferred to the other excise warehouse, thereby effectively circumventing the possibility of verification. The same fear arises now with regard to the reduction of small-scale wineries and administration, in order not to make use of this by more people, virtually by abuse, to escape control and circumvent the tax administration. However, this is obviously a competitive disadvantage for decent winemakers. Therefore, it is expected that fair-farming winemakers will be able to resolve all this in the implementing regulations. I can say that the draft law itself and the amendments announced by the President are, by the way, eligible on my part. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-09-34	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter Konya. As no one has applied for a two-minute speech, further speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, Chairman of the Commission, Fidesz.
u2016-11-09-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I applied for a comment, and I did not ask for a two-minute version, because each of my fellow Members said a thought on which I would like to reflect. First of all, I am not the author of the law, I am the government, but I am glad that they see it as having insight or influence in this area. My fellow Member, Zoltán Gógös, said a sentence. Maybe it was just the two or three of us in this room that understood that it wasn't always the case, that there wasn't always an agreed form of mountain law. True, but my fellow Member may remember that a motion was tabled in an individual representative's motion, indeed, in an uncontested manner, but since I was the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I have taken this off the agenda and we have not discussed it. The unconventional draft was not submitted to Parliament, but as a result, the profession has been negotiated for four weeks, and all the representatives concerned, to amend the Mountain Community Act in a uniform version, including the opinion of the representation bodies. This has happened, and since then there has been this broad consensus, and since then the right of the National Council of the Mountains to not bring legislation before this House without practically asking for their opinion. We have been doing this ever since, ever since, since 2011-12. Let me get this straight because it's a complete picture. At the same time, my fellow Member, Haughty, mentioned that Mr. A proposal for an amendment is proposed for mountain village data which can be transmitted to the Chamber. I just want to make it clear that there is no big problem with this amendment, and we are here to settle a long-standing debate. After the establishment of the National Chamber of Agriculture, the compulsory membership of the Chamber and payment of the associated membership fee do not extend to members of the mountain community who are exclusively engaged in viticulture. But since they could not confirm this to the National Chamber of Agriculture, the Chamber also imposed compulsory chamber membership and payment of fees on them, while the law clearly states that, as a member of the mountain village - the mountain village also provides chamber permissions for HNT - if it is a member of the mountain village and therefore a member of the HNT, then, if it is purely for the production of grapes, it cannot indeed be required by the National Chamber of Agriculture to be a member and a member of the Member's fee. This has been discussed for two years between the National Council of the Mountains and the National Chamber of Agriculture in order to clarify overlap and dual membership. And for this reason, the National Chamber of Agriculture can only believe that the farmer is not obliged to be a member of the agricultural chamber, because he is a member of the National Council of the Mountain Community, and he only manages the vineyard if the National Council of the Mountains hands this data over to the National Chamber of Agriculture. [[11.20]] So be careful here with the amendment, because then we could get back to the chaos situation. This authorisation had to be granted just for clarification, otherwise there are several listings in this 18th. In Section 5 of the Act, some 8-10 public administration bodies are also able to provide information about the members of the National Council of the Mountains to whom they can at all. In this case, he is now entitled, and he will be entitled to the adoption of the law, perhaps the National Chamber of Agriculture, for the reasons mentioned above. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, was delirious in the direction of grievances and interest interests, which is indeed not mentioned here, and he took a micro-segment of the summer, early autumn grape buying prices and related grape-producing dissatisfaction. This is the case in itself: in general, the farmer would like to receive a higher price and the purchaser would like to give a lower price; this is a few thousand-year-old debate since trade was invented, but let me note that the already mentioned sub-committee on Grape, Wine and Pálinka, which I have led, has also dealt with this issue. So I can't suggest anything other than that of every member of our committee who receives the invitation to the aforementioned subcommittee meeting, and I would very much ask that Jobbik be represented there, because this committee, the subcommittee, is invited every time by four associations with national coverage, the association established by vineyards and winemakers. We know of four such things: the National Council of Mountains, the National Tax and Customs Office, the Nébih, the FM, the NGM, so we cannot imagine a wider circle - they are invited. In fact, now young winemakers, junipers, are invited as new associations. But unfortunately, one of the representative organisations for our last sub-committee meeting, the one that was set up in favour of the vineyards in the lowland, so he advertises himself, and last year he expressed his dissatisfaction with a demonstration in the capital city, a demonstration in a small settlement this year, just as this organization did not happen to come to our last subcommittee meeting, where we dealt with this topic on the agenda, the situation of wine, the vintage status and the issue of grape prices. So it is very difficult to bring the views of stakeholders into the scope of the legislation if, in the meantime, stakeholders express their dissatisfaction in the public media, but when the committee deals with this issue, they do not appear. Therefore, I would immediately signal to my colleague Zoltán Magyar - and then his fellow Members will pass it on to him, because he is not in the Chamber right now Zoltán Magyar, but I would like to tell him - that the next sub-committee meeting on Grape, Wine and Pálinka, which is expected to be set within two weeks, will be on the agenda for more of the proposals made by Péter Kónya, who is acting regularly, and we will also have some 4-5 items on the agenda. To show that this committee is indeed dealing with the issue of stakeholders, it has been suggested that the situation regarding the change in the name of Olaszrizling is clarified. This is a very exciting question, a native Hungarian breed, but according to its name, no one knows why it is Italian and why Riesling, because neither of them has anything to do with the variety, nor is it Italian or Riesling. The wineries in North Balaton have launched an operation, and we're nearing the end of the new name choice. The lack of agricultural casual workers and the link between public work have been raised hard and hard, and how to ensure access from the public work programme to the agricultural occasional work and to the vineyard. Mr Péter Cseresnyés will therefore be addressed as rapporteur at our next meeting. The question of wine marketing, Magyar Turizmus Zrt. will affect a large area. I'm going to invite your CEO. Now we see the possibility of movement next year, I hope that Tourism Zrt. at all. The marketing concept for next year has already been planned; we will hear a report on this. Of course, since this meeting will be held at the end of November, beginning of December, as planned, I would like to hear the closing of the wine year and the results in a summary report. Here, too, it is a very exciting issue in general, and this is something that we always specifically mention: annual exports, import and import data from the market in wine, and I always ask you specifically for imports, Péter Kónya, you can confirm that I specifically ask the Italian data where we stand. For the record, over one third of wine imports have decreased from this country over three years ago, which we always look critically at, and I also note that from hundreds of thousands of hectoes the volume has decreased to 150 thousand hectoes, so it has decreased to one third of the imports from three years ago. In addition, there has been a price increase, instead of 0.22-0.24 cents, the latest report - this October report - can only bring wine from Italy for 0.4 cents. This is exciting because it can bring up the price and position of Hungarian cuisine and table wines. This is my fellow Member, Mr Sallai R. Benedict, and I feel that he could not stand to mix political texts and speeches with the otherwise hard professional issue. This grape, wine and brandy is usually the one in which there is a very strong consensus, by the way, whoever is in the government and anyone is in opposition. This is what I dare say, because of my nearly 18-year-old representation, that we are very much united in this, and we really only support improving intentions, technical questions and the forwarding of the case, and we do not include serious political accusations in this conversation. I am very sorry that my fellow Member has not made it this time. My fellow Member, Mr Péter Kónya, who, I say, is extremely enthusiastic and acting as a member of our subcommittee, I would like to point out to his mind about the judges of the mountains that, yes, the judges of the mountains are quite serious in their duties, they are not in that status by accident, with a salary which is the result of our last amendment of the law. However, I would like to note that if the criticism of the fact that the mountain judges have already been small kings - there has been such a remark - this is an unfortunate event if the judge is not serving the vine producers. But I can only say what 17 says. § 2 contains it now, and so far it has been the case that the selection of the mountain village initiates the position of the mountain judge, that he needs a ridge judge, and that, on the basis of the evaluation of the applications received to the National Council of the Mountain Communities - because he will be appointed - the election will propose him. And for the record, so far, all the proposals made by the election have been accepted by HNT. In English, it should be arranged on the spot to see what kind of judge they choose. I'm sorry if it turned out to be an unwelcome ridgeman who, by the way, has a very tied and responsible job. This often means that he is obligated to comply with the law even if the member of the mountain village says, "Oh, don't be silly about why you're doing this to me." And the ridge judge may not be doing it according to his own evil intentions, but he knows that there is nothing else he can do in this status, because these are his legal obligations. I hear such arguments, too, but I do not write this at the expense of the ridge judge, and I say that the ridge judge, who, even in this situation, is not inclined to his legal obligations, I say, according to the request of a strong member of the mountain village. That's why I don't understand the little kingly sign, but if there's a constant grudge against the ridgeman, then there's a way to remove it. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2016-11-09-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Font. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr Czerván State Secretary [[György Czerván stands up.]] But I'm not asking because he's getting ready. There is a 30-minute time frame for Mr Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[11.30]]
u2016-11-09-37	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It may not be necessary for 30 minutes, because a lot of points and questions have been answered by Commission President Font instead of me, saving me some time, but allow me to go on a few points. Of course, there will be an opportunity for amendments, but basically there seems to be a great deal of consensus, and thank you very much for the opinion of all the supporters, especially the two-thirds and fundamental decision. In this case, our ministry also initiated a five-party consultation, for which, if not all, but there, at least at expert level, the Ministry's opinion was heard. I believe that, in relation to the specific proposals that have been made here, I do not see a fundamental obstacle to the fact that they can be accepted or supported by the ministry, the government. Here, perhaps most of the time, the 60 days were reduced to 30 days, and I think this is manageable. Where the fine goes is also manageable, there are only conflicts of interest, so we'll have to clear that up with the various organizations. It welcomed virtually everyone's expected amendment to the excise law, which will take place from 1 April in the context of small-scale wine-producing conditions. I believe that a real reduction in the administrative burden will be possible, and this will indeed have a positive impact on about 85-90 percent of all domestic wineries. Mr Haughty asked a number of questions, one of which was who would be burdened with the cost of grubbing up. This has been agreed with the mountain villages, and a proper financial basis will be created for this. The point about the Chamber of Agriculture was made clearly by my fellow Member Font, and he was very right to say that this flow of information is necessary precisely in order to avoid double contributions. I therefore believe that this is also positive. Speaking of which, perhaps Mr Zoltán Magyar, who is not here yet, said that he agrees with the proposal. He objected to what was not in it, and that, I do not know how he put it, the opinions of smaller winemakers or winemakers could not be heard; then I realized that he was thinking about what was a protest initiative, which Mr Font spoke about. I would like to say that, when I first heard two years ago, producers from the Soltvadkert area said that they had a problem and that - I don't know - they said, perhaps in eight points, I received them personally in the Ministry within two or three days of the problem being raised, and we went through their requests in a concrete way, clarifying what can be handled, what can be handled at EU level, what is contrary to EU rules, so it cannot be treated, and what is not bad if they agree with HNT, because it may even harm their interests. This was last year, but also this year, these requests... I think that Soltvadkerten wasn't even a movement or a protest, it was also relocated to Bócsa, and he really didn't even have a press voice. But I would like to point out that we are not avoiding meeting with producers, for example, I will be attending Soltvadkert myself tomorrow, if I remember correctly, for the sixth time in a row at the Martin's new wine event, where I do not know how many hundred winemakers or vine producers I will meet, and at this event we could still find harmony, and the Ministry's position could be supported by the producers there. By the way, the main, biggest problem they indicated was the AKG competition, which has been otherwise settled since then, a separate source has been opened. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, who has also left, said that not everyone's opinion is taken into account. I don't know who you mean. On the other hand, we have been praised for consulting the profession, the representation of interest, all of us. The HNT system is one of the most democratic systems, which is a bottom-up system, so where everyone has an opinion, I think it is the responsibility of every member, every member of the mountain village, and I do not think it would be a good idea to punish him if he does not go to meetings, forums, where he otherwise has an elemental interest in being there as a vineyard owner or winemaker and expressing his opinion. They choose the delegates, and so the entire system is built from the bottom, so I think everyone has their opinion on this, and it has to be in it. So I think the mountain community system is working and working well. With regard to the Italian wine, which Mr Font also spoke about, I have here the table, and it is part of my presentation tomorrow, including the entire import wine and the Italian import wine, which is the largest part of it. In 2011, there were 600 thousand hectolitres of Italian imported wine, which, in fact, fell to 164 thousand hectolitres by 2015, and it seems that Italian imports will go below this year. So the government has made a great deal of effort here, just as it has done in other areas. I would like to tell you that since our accession to the Union, 23,000 hectares of vineyards have been renewed, modernised, and that the government is also trying to support the sector from sources in Brussels and from domestic sources; although it would also be a serious support if we did not consume 25 litres/person/year, but in the same way as in the large wine consuming countries, France, Italy, where it is significantly higher. But I would like to say that we have spent HUF 45 billion in EU funding to support the sector in the cycle of 14-18, especially for the modernisation of plantations, which has not been supported by the sector since the change of regime, and it looks like we can continue this support after 19 at a similar rate of HUF 9 billion per year. We also think about the sector in terms of rural development resources: we have opened up a 40 billion-dollar fund to support the purchase of wine machines and technological equipment, and how successful the application is, nothing proves better than that the demand for approximately HUF 30 billion was received by October 12th, and it has been possible to apply continuously since then, and we are now at HUF 34 billion. I therefore believe that the $40 billion of funds opened will be drawn and used in the interests of the sector. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I would like to thank you for your opinions, for your support. We look forward to the amendments, and then I will ask for the adoption of the proposal, in particular the crucial part. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-38	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Czerván. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to announce an air transport agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Australia until closure. Government referral T/12698. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-09-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill provides for the publication of an air transport agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Australia. The agreement between the Hungarian and Australian parties was signed on 23 September 2016. The document also provides a legal basis for the launch of air services between the two countries, including rules on the operation of flights, cooperation between aviation authorities, coordination of aviation safety, including measures to ensure security of persons and property. [[11.40]] The agreement will contribute to deepening economic cooperation between the two countries, promoting bilateral trade, cultural and tourism relations. The purpose of the bill is to incorporate the agreement with the Australian party into the Hungarian legal order. Pursuant to the Act on Procedures for International Contracts, it is necessary to publish the Agreement at a legal level. With all due respect, I ask the Parliament to accept the bill and support the announcement of the agreement. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Petneházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. They have a 15-minute time frame.
u2016-11-09-41	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen. As we have heard, we are obviously at a point of order where everyone, the whole Parliament, will nod its trust in this matter, because it is a matter of interest to Hungary. Although I add in parentheses that one day after a case in the interests of Hungary has been removed by the entire opposition, this may be a vain fantasy, but I would not open this door now, it is quite open enough as it is. Back to the case: For Hungary, it has always been very important to build bilateral relations, in which Hungary's international judgment will improve from an economic and political point of view. This is also the recent agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Australian Government on air transport, which makes a decisive contribution to economic, tourism and trade cooperation between the two countries. The agreement is also important primarily because so far there has been no bilateral air transport agreement between the two countries. However, it would now be possible to launch scheduled passenger and freight flights between Hungary and any international commercial airport in Australia. Allow me to briefly address cultural and economic relations. Well, I'd like to start at the beginning, at the individual level. There are more than 60 thousand Hungarians living in Australia at the moment, and in connection with the 60th anniversary, it is appropriate to mention that a significant part of them settled in the island country after the 1956 revolution and freedom struggle. If I remember correctly, there were over 20,000 people who settled in Australia. This agreement is also important for relations with their family members in Hungary, since it would be quite simplified as soon as it enters into force. Furthermore, the opportunities offered by Australia can be attractive to many young people. The two countries have already established the working holiday system. This programme allows Hungarian and Australian citizens aged 18-30 to stay in the territory of the other party for a period not exceeding one year. The creation of links between higher education institutions is also an important part of this issue. Scientific cooperation may be established between the Budapest University of Technology and Economics, the BME Institute of Engineering and the Sydney University of Technology, the University of Melbourne, but here I can mention Szent István University, ELTE, Eszterházy Károly College in Eger, and several Hungarian and Australian higher education institutions have indicated their interest in taking on bilateral relations. During the agreement, the economic relationship between the two countries could be revived and stimulated by the trade in goods, and I am talking here about goods such as office machines, various instruments, textile products, sound recording and reproducing devices; in Hungarian, goods with high added materials and added intellectual product. The air traffic agreement covers operating rules, as we have heard, security regulations, personal and property protection matters. It also meets the EU's expectations. Well, between any international airport in the two countries, it makes it possible to start regular passenger and freight flights and, therefore, it is also important to implement the law in order to ensure this legal background. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. I am convinced that the agreement would make a major contribution to the development of scientific, cultural and economic relations between the two countries, as I have said, by ensuring a common legal framework for air transport. With your support, I thank you for your great attention.
u2016-11-09-42	Thank you, Congressman Petnehazy. I now give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-11-09-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, With the entry into force of the Agreement, it will be possible to launch scheduled passenger and freight flights between Hungary and any international commercial airport in Australia. The agreement includes clauses on bilateral air transport agreements between Member States and the European Commission, drawn up and agreed jointly between Member States and third countries, including the designation and withdrawal of airlines. The submission is in accordance with the provisions of Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the negotiation and implementation of agreements on air services between Member States and third countries. The signing of the agreement will not only allow the development of air traffic between Hungary and Australia, but also facilitate the recovery of trade and tourism between the two countries. The establishment of the agreement can have a positive impact on the whole of Hungarian-Australian relations, and can clearly be beneficial in the economic, touristic, cultural and educational fields. I can reassure my fellow Member, Mr Petneházy, that the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the presentation. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-09-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-09-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It's a big country, Australia. Since the Government of Hungary and the Australian Government have concluded an agreement on the launch of air traffic between the two countries, what was strange to me was that this was not yet the case between the two countries, and we did not have such an agreement with such a country, even though Australia is the sixth largest country on earth, so we are talking about a huge country. Although it is true that the population is not nearly as significant and is not proportionate, since there is no population density in Australia for 3 people per square kilometer, and Australia currently has about 23-23.5 million inhabitants. If we look at the composition of the population, it is similar to that of Europe, since 92 percent of Australia is European, while 7 percent are Asian, they are usually immigrants, and 1 percent are natives, so-called natives. We see that it is about the same as the European, because, unfortunately, in Europe too, migration has been very strengthened in recent years, and the introduction of the Asian ethnic group into Europe in particular is unfortunately observed. But obviously, if this continues and the European Union does not take effective action, this kind of ratio will be severely decompressed, and Australia will represent the European population rates much better than that part of the countries in the European Union which unfortunately stands on the migrant issue by allowing them in, however large a number. [[11.50]] It is also worth concluding this treaty, and the treaty has been concluded, but it is accepted by the parliaments, because we know very well that Australia is a very important country, not only in terms of what I have said, that it is the sixth largest state on earth, but also because we are talking economically about a very strong country, perhaps the richest country, too. Where did this come from? It is built on... - of course there are tiny countries that are a little richer, but in Australia, the GDP per capita is 64 thousand US dollars, which stands out worldwide, about five times the GDP of Hungary is the national income per capita in Australia. So we are talking about an economically very strong country, which, we know, is almost on the far side of the Earth. So air traffic is not that simple, because passenger planes take about 24 hours to make this trip, so you can't think that when you sign this contract, you're going to ride out with an airplane for a longer weekend up to Australia. This also determines the tourist traffic between the two countries, since not everyone can travel from Hungary to Australia, or from Australia to Hungary, with such a great trip and relatively expensive airline ticket prices. Obviously, this also determines the traffic of passengers that, in general, more affluent tourists with higher incomes will reach each other's countries. We are confident that, by adopting this agreement, tourist traffic between the two countries will also increase, and not only will aircraft traffic, tourist traffic, but also increase the economy, as trade will in all likelihood recover, at least this is the effect we expect from the entry into force of this agreement. A 24-hour flight is difficult for you, but Australia has many attractions, which can make it an attractive destination for Hungarian and European tourists, since there are animals that are not found on other continents, such as the platypus, kangaroo, koala or eucalyptus forests, which are not elsewhere, and a third of the country's territory is vast and deserted. This is the continent on which the water is the least, and all of this has developed a type of wildlife that makes Australia very unique and thus attractive. On the basis of the agreement, it will be possible to boost both personal traffic and trade, as there will also be freight transport and postal traffic outside the passenger transport sector; this will also be covered by the contract, as well as by allowing countries to land and use international airports among themselves. Australia is in a rather advantageous position in terms of air traffic. Because of its large area, it is often only possible to make those distances by plane in a relatively short period of time, which is why there are many airports, 294 airports in Australia. On the other hand, he has only one international airline, although he can at least say that he has his own airline, Qantas, which is international, Hungary cannot say all of this about itself, since Malév unfortunately no longer exists as a Hungarian national airline. This is precisely the reason for our criticism of such agreements in general, which is the criticism that each country is primarily seeking to represent its own interests in these agreements, as is the case with Australia in this agreement, that only an airline registered in the territory of Australia can traffic in Hungary in relation to Australia, and that Australia's air surveillance exercises oversight over it. Unfortunately, Hungary cannot say this, and it is therefore clearly broadening it for the European Union. It will therefore be an airline registered in a Member State of the European Union and supervised by a Member State which Hungary will be able to enter into the contract and mark it, which will conduct this air traffic between Australia and Hungary. So this is what we usually say in these cases, that while the contracting parties will always be the national airline, it will unfortunately be an EU airline without a national airline in Hungary, which will supply this traffic between the two countries. What are the most important aspects? I believe that these treaties are drawn up on the basis of appropriate international recommendations, which are included. The most important issue is security. The safety of air traffic is the most fundamental aspect in all cases. These points are also addressed to a large extent, and aviation safety is addressed in Article 5 and in Article 6. On the one hand, each country can check the safety of the aircraft of the other country in its territory, the crew's qualifications, whether the aircraft has the appropriate documents, and whether the control carried out by the airline is sufficiently safe, and the other most important aspect is the prevention of illegal activities, which both countries commit to with this contract. As far as user charges are concerned, it is quite clear that they can charge the costs. It is very important to note that there can be no more charges for airlines coming from another Member State, i.e. from another Contracting Party than for local airlines when using airports. This is a very important question. I would like to mention one more thing that I think is important in this, and that is the settlement of disputes. It rightly focuses primarily on negotiation and consultation, negotiation and consultation between the two countries. If that is not the case, then, without another forum, the dispute is settled by arbitration. The chosen courts shall stand by each of the parties to the arbitration panel, and the two Judges shall jointly, on a consensual basis, elect a third judge. If this does not happen, they cannot choose, they cannot agree, in which case ICAO, the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, and the Board of President, will be the one to appoint the third judge in this case, and both countries will be obliged to accept this, and there will be no appeal. I believe that this agreement will reassure the air traffic between the two countries, so I think that this is a Eligible bill that has come before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-09-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if anyone wishes to comment, because if not, we have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, I don't see any other speakers on the screen. Would anyone like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] There's no contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author - who nodds yes, wishes to speak. You have the floor, Mr State Secretary, who will respond to what has been said in this debate on behalf of the national government. [[12.00]]
u2016-11-09-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your valuable comments. The lead speaker of the Fidesz faction has highlighted our living relations with Australia, and, of course, everyone is interested in developing these relations and opening up space as far as possible, even if it is a huge country and a huge distance. Thank you for the support of MSZP's lead speaker and the right-wing lead speaker for the geography lesson and life lesson. Indeed, it was a little bit more interesting to see what a valuable continent Australia is, and how nice it would be to visit the Hungarians living there, as we hope they will visit it, perhaps more easily, because the agreement that came before us in the form of the bill clearly makes the legal framework secure. And why it took place only now, I can answer by saying that a 2006 Prime Minister's decree, number 33, provided for, among other things, an agreement with the Government of Australia, the United Arab Emirates, the Jordan Hashemite Kingdom, the Belarusian Republic, the Armenian Republic, Georgia, Azerbaijan, the Bolivian Republic of Venezuela. In this context, we came to this point, that we also concluded it with Australia, and, as has been said in the keynote speeches, on several occasions, this agreement was signed, by the way, on 23 September, if I remember the date correctly. I sincerely thank the factions for their support, and I will ask for the same clear support for the adoption of this proposal in the vote. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-09-48	Thank you, Secretary of State Tasó. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws relating to transport until closure. Government referral T/12742. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2016-11-09-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In many cases, the bill facilitates simplification, rationalisation and the protection of our employees, sets out rules to further accelerate, among other things, the implementation of major transport development investments, as well as clarifications that will help us to resolve disputes in the domain of expropriation, including in the area of tracing, and in a number of areas that affect the world of regulation that are good news for everyone who is in contact with the area covered by the regulation. One of the main objectives of the provisions is, among other things, to improve the safety of used car purchases by developing vehicle life-to-way data. It is proposed that relevant data on a given vehicle recorded by several bodies can be obtained freely from 1 January 2018. Citizens have access to data free of charge through a single interface within a single data request process. Thus, when purchasing a vehicle, the buyer will receive public information on the technical condition of the particular vehicle, covering the entire life cycle of the vehicle from the production to the demolition report. In addition, the bill contains amendments to 11 laws as a whole, which is why I say that this is a serious package of proposals. The amendment to the Road Transport Act, in addition to the information on the life of a vehicle, also establishes the accounting arrangements for the costs incurred in the case of payment of an on-the-spot credit card fine in connection with the road inspection. So this means that, naturally, in relation to the payment of the fine imposed, this cost will affect the fine, the payer. From 1 July 2018, law enforcement bodies, parking companies and toll-paying organisations will be given an opportunity to receive a clear notification of the holders of provisional registration plates. This is expected to reduce the abuse of license plates. Naturally, this cannot completely exclude it, but we hope it will greatly reduce it. With the amendment of the Act, from 1 April 2017 we will also provide the possibility for the registration plate to be fitted to a bicycle transport vehicle in the form of a special registration plate, including the characters on the registration plate issued to the vehicle. To put it simply, the registration number will also be available for the bicycle transport vehicle as of 1 April 2017, and it will not need to be decommissioned or moved. This will be possible by the deadline of 1 April. The bill creates the adoption of the basic rules, and, of course, we will also have to establish the detailed rules related to it. The reason for amending the law on rail transport is, inter alia, that the law on national assets has changed and that, according to the law, State assets can only be managed by an economic entity owned by the State by 100%. This is a very strict regulation, and there is a contradiction here because GYSEV Zrt. manage state assets that are extremely important and extremely important for Hungary, but GYSEV Zrt. is not a 100% state-owned company. By amending this regulation, we are creating an opportunity for GYSEV to use and manage state assets, conclude asset management contracts, and naturally all legal backgrounds will be established in this respect. The law also allows us to limit the data related to safety equipment in the case of road and public rail vehicles to one degree. In this regard, we have already seen information and have seen misleading information suggesting that regulation can conceal or conceal important information about the technical database that has been available so far. It is absolutely certain, I can say with great certainty, that this regulation does not affect the information which has otherwise been referred to in the news or in this regard. Of course, only those technical information, the services related to those data will be prohibited and concealed, which are necessary for national security purposes or for reasons of special interest. The point is that the regulation does not affect the rules of public procurement, so the opinions we have heard so far cannot sit down. In the field of rail regulation, we also record in the amendment of the law on other fixed-track transport what needs to be reported in the operation of other fixed-track transport systems. Thus, there is, among other things, a regulatory amendment to lower-line ski lifts, but essentially it does not change its basic orientation. The axle weighing system is in the process of being built, the deadlines are being changed here, and we can start pre-filtering in February 2017. In this connection, we can also make sure that sanctions based on objective liability principles are introduced later. The deadline for this is Autumn 2017. The amendment also includes, among other things, the division of tasks of the organisation responsible for development projects and clarifies who the development contributor is. The reason for the amendment of the Passenger Transport Services Act is, among other things, that the Hungarian State has taken over part of the process of transport in the capital and, as a result, rules could change, but there are no limits to creating a state in which service providers can continue to apply for social policy benefits. It is therefore necessary to amend the rules in order to support the social policy fare reduction and to make use of it. I have just mentioned in my introduction that new acceleration is needed for investments that are of major national importance. In the previous year, in June, the Hungarian Parliament adopted the first so-called acceleration package, with the help of which the previous six-and-a-half-year preparation was reduced to two years. We would now like to speed up this opportunity through a new procedure and two amendments, as our aim is to ensure that investment in transport development can be made as quickly as possible. [[12.10]] In this respect, two really important areas are being changed. One makes rules simpler in relation to the expropriation process; the other sets out new rules in relation to the development of trails. Overall, all our proposals, as I have said, take the current regulation towards simplification and rationalisation. The amendment of the Aviation Act is a technical amendment, and also in the bill on water transport, clearly on the side of workers, we make working time protection and working time rules consistent with the EU, and we naturally take Hungarian legislation into account. So all of our amendments, which are included in the eleven amendments, are all about rationalisation, simplification, the protection of workers, and that all our investments can serve the development of the economy and the well-being of the Hungarian people in a timely and timely manner. With all due respect, Mr President.
u2016-11-09-50	Thank you, Secretary of State Tasó. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-09-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, T/12742 on the amendment of certain transport-related laws before us We are now looking at legislative proposals, which, overall, initiates the amendment of nearly a dozen, to be exact, 11 laws. In my speech, I am only trying to highlight the most important changes from the legislative amendments. One of the essential elements of the amendment in the proposal is the need to meet the demands of the sales of used motor vehicles, which, by the way, provide customers with credible and wide-ranging information about the vehicle's past - I think it is entirely legitimate, otherwise. In the course of the sale or purchase of used vehicles, it appears to be a major disadvantage for the customers, or it has so far appeared that the seller, the owner or the holder of the vehicle did not always have or had real information about the vehicle to be purchased, so that the buyer was often in a vulnerable situation and had questionable information about the vehicle to be purchased. Therefore, when purchasing a vehicle, it is of particular importance for the buyer to have credible information on the vehicle to be purchased from as many sources as possible, in order to give him a real picture of its technical condition. Unfortunately, the results of the periodic technical tests do not provide a complete guarantee in such cases either, since there is a realistic chance that the technical condition of the vehicle may deteriorate significantly between the two tests on the appropriate technical condition of the vehicle. The participation of motor vehicles in road traffic in an inadequate technical condition is obviously a serious risk, as it may or may not directly endanger human life, physical integrity, precisely through the increased risk of accidents resulting from poor technical condition. The resulting road accidents can cause significant damage at both individual and overall levels of society. During the purchase of a motor vehicle, the customer's sense of safety will be increased when he receives public-credited information on the technical data of the vehicle concerned, both from a credible source and covering the entire life cycle of the vehicle from production through a contract concluded between them, even to the issue of the demolition report. In order to ensure that the purchase of used vehicles is a safer process, the draft law provides that so-called vehicle route data will be developed in the future, allowing the consultation of relevant historical data relating to that vehicle to take place through a single service interface as from 1 January 2018. Another great advantage of this new system is that, in addition to the amendment in question, it will be fully free of charge, so it will indeed be a customer-friendly customer-centred service. The amendment before us also provides for the amendment of Law I of 1988 on road transport. In this case, a change will be made so that the costs incurred in the case of payment of a credit card on-the-spot in connection with a road inspection will be borne by the paying person. To this end, the relevant legislative mandate should also be clarified. LXXXIV of 1990 on the Road Transport Register The amendment to the Act aims to reduce the amount of abuse of temporary registration plates, or to lift the anomalies indicated by cyclists and bicycle associations, which the Secretary of State has already described in detail, so that the registration number and the registration number are not always attached to the vehicles and to the part of the vehicle where the bicycles are placed. The other known problem with license plates is that there are so-called temporary registration plates. Vehicles with such registration plates are generally not placed on the market and are therefore not registered in a public central register. It is therefore possible to provide information on the holders of provisional registration plates, law enforcement bodies, parking companies and toll bodies as of 1 July 2018. As a result, it is hoped that future abuse of temporary registration plates can be reduced. The 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport It is justified to amend law because, pursuant to the National Property Act, the trustee of State property can only be an economic entity wholly owned by the State or by the municipality at 100%. Thus, with the entry into force of the Act, there is no possibility for State-owned companies other than 100% to amend asset management contracts. Győr-Sopron-Ebenfurti Vasút Zrt., GYSEV Zrt. in the case of the State Property Act, we were not talking about a 100% state-owned trustee, but GYSEV Zrt. it also manages a significant 100 per cent state-owned railway infrastructure. In order to make GYSEV Zrt. In the future, it can operate in an orderly legal context, and thus calls for the conclusion of the asset management contract between GYSEV and the Hungarian State. XLII 2000 on water transport will also take place within the framework of the current legislative amendment. also to amend the law. This change of legislation is necessary primarily for EU harmonisation purposes, as EU-level organisations of employers and workers in the inland navigation sector concluded an agreement in 2012 on the working time of workers in the sector. In order to ensure proper transposition of these provisions, special provisions on working order, working time schedule, working time and rest periods, which are generally regulated in the Labour Code, should also be ensured. The amendment to the Act on Passenger Transport Services is justified by the fact that the capital-suburban transport, Volánbusz and BHÉV Zrt. At the time of its take-back by the State, the available technological conditions significantly limit the change in the current system of sales and settlement. As a result, the sale of the product by Budapest Közlekedési Központ Zrt. and between the service provider in the form of a contract, trust or reselling arrangement. Since, as a result of the technological constraints, the BKK is still selling in the current structure and BKK is a legal entity, the suburban transport service provider Volánbusz Zrt. and the HÉV company cannot use social policy fare support. This was mentioned earlier by the Secretary of State. With the amendment proposed now, this problem can be eliminated, as the adoption of the proposal will allow these operators to claim this so-called social policy fare premium after the proceeds received by BKK outside the administrative borders of the capital and to the transport operators mentioned above, i.e. Volánbusz, BHÉV Zrt. Ladies and gentlemen, The package before us also includes amendments to the law on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments that are of major national importance. The intention to amend here is to make transport infrastructure investments faster than the practice that has been applied so far. This is, on the one hand, an economic need and, on the other hand, also serves the faster development of transport infrastructure, which, I think, is in the interests of the whole country. This is precisely why the rethink of the current expropriation legislation has become important, as a result of which the following amendments are included in the proposal before us in relation to the expropriation procedure. In the case of non-built real estate, the suspension of enforcement in court proceedings should not be allowed in the event of a dispute over the legal basis. In addition, in the following cases, it may be communicated by registered letter rather than by registered letter and simultaneously by means of a notice in the case of notification of the initiation of the expropriation procedure, in the case of notification of expert visits and in the case of notification of a hearing. [[12.20]] It is also an amendment to reduce the minimum time between sending expert opinions to the expropriation authority and the hearing in cases of simpler judgment from 10 days to 5 days. The proposal also provides that the negotiation should not be necessary in the future at the same time as the secondment of experts, but that the authority may decide to determine it in an optimal time for the circumstances of the case. The proposed amendment also provides that, in the context of the endorsement of the plans necessary for the expropriation procedure, if the settlement arrangement has not yet been amended, the authority should examine the consistency with the trail adopted by the Government in the course of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the justification I have just given, I believe that T/12742 on the amendment of certain laws relating to transport The legislative proposal No 1 contains clarification, harmonisation of laws, practical application of law and legislative changes resulting from everyday life, and it is therefore justified and justified to adopt this amendment. Therefore, I would like to ask you with respect that, after a constructive debate has been held, you support the adoption of legislative amendments by your votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-52	Thank you, Congressman Witzmann. I now give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-11-09-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have a very complex draft legislation ahead of us. It's like a good grocery store in the country, it's got drugs like spray, soap, salami, just sort out which one is what. In any case, the part of the proposal that improves database management complexity to improve the purity of used vehicle distribution is a positive part of the proposal. Based on the justification of the proposed legislation in the field of motor vehicles, the development of vehicle life-to-life data will allow the consultation of relevant data on a given vehicle by several registration bodies, i.e. authentic, relevant data through a single service interface. This is definitely a step forward. Citizens could obtain this data free of charge on a guaranteed interface within the framework of a data request process. This is in any event a matter of reliability, and this should be well touched by the Road Transport Act, the Road Transport Register Act and the 2009 LXII on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. Law. If you do this, and it will actually work, it will certainly improve the safety of the used car trade. So this is one of the positives of the proposal. A new register is also established with the establishment of a central register of temporary registration plates. Law enforcement bodies, parking companies and organisations entitled to pay tolls will be able to provide data on the holders of temporary registration plates in the future. The author therefore expects a reduction in the abuse of provisional registration plates, which is not specifically indicated in the proposal. This is certainly a special area of movement, and some people are very good at temporary registration plates, and if you manage to reduce it a little bit, it will definitely clear this area. The proposal also includes a labour law amendment with an objective of harmonisation in the European Union, which shows, of course, that your 2012 Act I is wrong, which is also referred to as the Labour Code. By the way, we already said it was wrong. Therefore, the 2000 XLII on water transport. Law 3 is amended for harmonisation purposes. In order to transpose these rules, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of derogating from the rules of the Code of Work already mentioned in relation to working arrangements, working time arrangements and working time and rest periods of the worker. This is interesting, because yesterday, in the case of energy laws, more specifically, the nuclear law, it came up with the wrong regulation of the current Code of Work on working time and leisure, with life-altering wording, and I would add that it is not in the interest of protecting workers. So it's worth reviewing. The fourth is such a large area in the proposal, such as soap: the general justification indicates that the proposal lays down simplification rules in the procedures necessary to implement expropriation procedures and the investment in transport infrastructure of major importance for the national economy. The 2006 LIII on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy will be amended. Law. The amendment shall also apply in proceedings pending upon the entry into force of the law. So it also contains a kind of node-resolving intention. CXXIII of 2007 on expropriation The amendment of law is explained by the need to simplify procedures, although there is another possibility here, which I would like to elaborate on in the section of your comments. The fifth issue is CLXXXIII of 2005 on rail transport. Amendment of Law, which introduces a new concept into the definition of the Railway Act. The infrastructure manager is a majority state-owned company that is contracting to manage and operate the public rail infrastructure - this is the new definition - which performs its task as a public service. The right to operate may also include the sub-licensing of the right to renovate, develop, possess, use and take advantage of national assets, and, in addition to infrastructure, the management and operation of railway track and its accessories. Well, that's what you said about dealing with the GYSEV problem. Well, that's a rather cuckoo way of putting it in the 27th grade. Circumstantial. The need to obtain technical data directly related to the safe operation of public rail vehicles reeks of... [[Laughing:]] Yeah, well, it stinks, it stinks, my subconscious said it smells like prevention, even though the justification says crime prevention, but it stinks, the ban on accessing data. Therefore, they justify reducing the need for access to data by limiting it to the end of the vehicle's operating time, but not more than thirty years, in the interest of preventing or national security. The controller shall decide on the restriction of knowledge by seeking the opinion of the Minister responsible for combating terrorism and preventing crime. In English, they can encrypt what they want, because the last bolt in the railway area can be said to be extremely important for the protection of terrorism, because if this is missing, then something will collapse. So it's a very rubber rule that's gonna make any shit disappear or cover it up. So I'm not sure it's moving towards transparency, and we think it's quite problematic. CXXIII of 2007 on expropriation The amendment of the Act will be justified in order to speed up procedures. But in what way, it's quite critical. [[12.30]] The amendment of the law on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance amends the scopes and reporting rules related to the registration of claims. I have to confirm that correctly. So what makes the data relating to the damage registration more transparent, reliable, uniform and manage them is a change in the right direction. They also amend the Passenger Transport Services Act, from the transport operator or from the reseller... - this is a certain HÉV problem. This is essentially in the interests of companies working in this area; I hope that consumers, passengers, will not be involved in this. However, I would like to make some serious comments in the remaining timeframe. The draft was submitted to a four-day administrative meeting on the government website, for just four days, for consultation, for four whole days. The preliminary impact assessment paper required by the legislative act was submitted for four days. It can be seen that the author does not take very seriously the statutory obligation to carry out an impact assessment. The impact assessment paper states that the title of the draft proposal - as described - is to amend the laws on the subject of transport. I. on the impact assessment sheet: budgetary impact. The remark next to it is: no. ANNEX II Impact assessment aspect: administrative burden. They're the same. This is not true from the point of view, because the administrative burden is changing. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. the impact assessment sheet: no other impacts. The question may be asked: if a draft has no impact, all administrative burdens remain unchanged, then why is this bill of about 56 paragraphs submitted. I do not want to say that these remarks are correct, that they do not have any effect, but they are written down by the authors. Take your own impact assessment seriously. CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. Law 38. According to Section 4a, the President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information shall deliver an opinion on the draft legislation of his duties. No such opinion can be found on the Authority's website, while the proposal contains a number of registration and data management provisions. We are obliged to assume that you have not sought the opinion of the President of the Authority on the issues actually affecting freedom of information, because this is not on the presentation form. This is a serious problem. It can therefore be said that this proposal does not comply with the rules of legislative preparation. In the next large area, in the Railway Act, a new gem of encryption has been included in the encryption of technical data directly related to the safe operation of public rail vehicles, the proposal 30. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. The restriction of access to data only seems to comply with the information law 27. Paragraph 2 of this Article. It allows the right to know public data in the public interest and public interest to be limited or restricted by law by the definition of the types of data. In the present case, the controller may, by seeking the opinion of the Minister of Police, refuse to release any data of the vehicle that may be classified as technical if, according to the text of the law, he considers the national security interests of the country and concludes that the disclosure of the data would be in breach of this particular interest. It's a rubber rule that can fit into anything. Forgive me if we think of such a thing, because the amendment of the Railway Act deserves special attention anyway. On the basis of the proposal, the Vál Valley railway running between Felcsút and Alcsút can, with its 5,7 km long track and three stops, can also lead to a change in the operation of its assets. On the other hand, even for the purpose of covering up small-rail vehicles, an amendment to the law on investments that are of national importance may be necessary. According to the amendment, this is very interesting - the Belgrade-Budapest railway can come to mind, of course, where there is a regulation to speed things up - so according to the law, the government can establish an area band or a trail, and the peculiarity of that is that there is no legal remedy. The regulation is a source of law, but there is no place to speak. So we believe that, although there are positive elements to the proposal, these are parts of it that cannot be accepted. We ask the author to correct these fundamental principles of law and freedom of information principles. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-11-09-54	Thank you, Congressman Józsa. I now give the floor to Mr József Attila Móring, Member, lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-11-09-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The T/12742 in front of us. The main elements of the bill on amending certain legislation relating to transport have already been presented by my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, and I would just like to draw attention to a few things. In order to increase the safety of used vehicle purchases, the development of a new service, called vehicle life-time data reporting, will enable data recorded by several registration bodies for a particular vehicle to be accessed through a single service interface. Citizens can obtain data free of charge on a interface within the framework of a data request process. This makes it necessary to comply with Act I of 1988 on Road Transport, Act LXXXIV of 1999 on Road Transport Register. Act LXII of 2009 on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. amendment of law. The amendment will allow the consultation of technical, environmental, road safety, repair and maintenance data relating to the maintenance of road vehicles certified for use in the road vehicle history register maintained by the transport authority, as well as of certain data relating to the use. The amendment defines the concept of a system for the technical management of vehicle life-time reporting and data reporting, as well as the registration of temporary registration plates, as well as the mandatory transmission of the documents on the basis of which provisional registration plates are issued to the register of documents, in order to enable them to be traceable at a later stage. Since vehicles with temporary registration plates are not in traffic, there is therefore no public central register of them. In the absence of this, there is no possibility to provide information on the vehicles or the holder of the registration plate. With the establishment of a central register of temporary registration plates, law enforcement bodies, parking companies and organisations entitled to charge tolls will be able to provide data on holders of temporary registration plates in the future, thus reducing the abuse of temporary registration plates. [[12.40]] Dear Parliament, Directive of the Council of 19 December 2014 implementing the European Agreement on the regulation of certain aspects of the organisation of working time within the inland navigation sector, concluded by the European Shipowners' Association and the European Transport Workers' Association, on water transport, 2000 In view of the special working and living conditions associated with inland waterway transport, it introduces specific rules for certain aspects of the Directive on the organisation of generally applicable working time and for workers covered by it. In order to transpose these rules, it is necessary to ensure a derogation from the working order of Act I of 2012 on the Labour Code, the working time schedule of the worker and the working time and rest periods of the worker, and to introduce measures to improve the health of the worker by amending the law. The proposal also defines the concept of inland navigation, inland navigation operator, night work, working time, rest periods, non-ship crew, multi-shift worker and mobile worker for the purposes of the sections concerned. It also requires that the employer prepares the working time schedule of the mobile worker subject to the requirements of healthy and safe working and road safety. The proposal also contains a clarification provision to clarify that it is the responsibility of the owner, trustee, operator or operator of the waterway, beachfront and related property owned by the State, as well as the establishment and renovation of national public ports, as well as the related floating facilities and other equipment acquisition and renovation of the former, and, in the case of certain projects, the withdrawal of the functions of the owner, trustee, operator or operator, without overwriting them, the organisation designated in the legislative or government decision as a development agent acting on behalf of and for the benefit of the State, shall also carry out development tasks. In this context, the proposal also amends the definition of the development contributor. The 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport The amendment to the Act is intended to protect the safety equipment and technical data of rail systems in the territory of the country, so that they cannot be accessible to anyone. The amendment to the Law on other fixed-track transport other than rail sets out in which cases and what to report for other fixed-track transport systems. In view of the fact that the transport authority also has information on the start-up and termination of the activity in the case of other fixed-track installations other than lower-line ski lifts, it is therefore unnecessary to impose additional notification obligations on them, so they should only notify the cessation of service, while in the case of lower-line lifts the start-up, interruption and cessation of activity should also be reported. The amending proposal also sets out simplification rules for expropriation procedures and procedures for making transport infrastructure investments of major importance for the national economy. In order to carry out, accelerate and simplify investments of high economic importance, the proposal provides for a mandate for the Government to establish in a regulation the area band or trail necessary for the implementation of transport infrastructure investment of a maximum width of 200 metres. Where the investment in transport infrastructure requires an environmental permit, the regulation may be issued after an increase in the legal force of the environmental permit. The issue of a construction permit and the start of a construction activity shall be subject to the existence of consistency with the Regulation. However, settlement arrangements should also be consistent with transport infrastructure investment, at the latest within six months of the final or, failing that, temporary entry into service of the transport infrastructure investment by the local authority concerned. The width of the trail laid down in the Regulation is determined by the proposal on the basis of the specific characteristics of each track infrastructure, so that a band of up to 100 to 100 metres from the axis of the expressway, up to 50 to 50 metres from the axis of another road, up to 100 to 100 metres from the axis of the railway, and 25 to 25 metres in the case of a bicycle path. The proposal also provides for construction restrictions, duration of protection and compensation obligations proportionate to the limitation. Dear House, I wanted to highlight these from among the 11 proposed amendments, and I would like to foresee that the bill is supported by the KDNP faction. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-09-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2016-11-09-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill amending certain transport-related laws before us seeks to amend 11 previous laws, grouped around about six areas. As in the case of a good salad law, this is usually the case - that I use such metaphorical poetic images - indeed this salad has very delicious and digestible, acceptable leaves, but as we go in and down these edible leaves, we have the essence of the bill, its interior, which is completely unacceptable, indigestible, which, by the way, contains toxic elements, and I must therefore state at the very beginning that the Group of Jobbik cannot support it in this form. Obviously, there are some minor, technical and professional amendments here that we accept, for which we say yes, they are very useful, very good, and if they were presented independently, we would accept them without further delay. For example, increasing the safety of used vehicle purchases is also an area like this, and there is no sane person in this country who would refuse to do so. Or even the amendment of the legislation on water transport would be supported by Jobbik's faction if it had not been presented in this salad law. To mention a few words about the inedible part of the internal part, let us first amend the 2005 Rail Transport Act. This is the fifth point within the bill. In addition to technical modifications, there is a very interesting restriction, which is also interesting, even outrageous, since here is 30th. In addition, the Commission considers that Article 4 of the Act would be extended and a measure would be smuggled into it that technical data relating to the safe operation of public rail vehicles could not in fact be requested, or that the decision-maker or, in this case, the Ministry of the Interior would have the competence to reject these requests in a totally subjective manner, if necessary, but if necessary, without justification. In such a case, it is important to consider whether there is an ulterior motive on the part of the government when it brings such a bill before the House. This could also be called a lex 3 subway, if you do not think of anything else, then in connection with the Tarlós István-Lázár János duel, it is legally suggested that this amendment may serve the purpose of preventing the interested, say, the press from getting any data on metro 3 restraint and accident safety issues. But we could call this a Budapest-Belgrád railway law and lex Budapest-Belgrád railway supplement, as we are talking about a 700 billion-dollar story here. It will be much easier to shift this huge, gigantic investment, let us say, towards their own pockets, to provide mugs and such friendly oligarchs, if information about these data will be as difficult as possible for the public to obtain. [[12.50]] Specifically, let's say we can talk or talk about Lőrinc Mészáros R-Kord Kft. The nation's gas mechanic, the nation's all-rounder, the Mészáros Lőrinc, with polyhistoric abilities, is also in the field of railway construction. If you think of this investment, or of the hundreds of billions available in this development cycle, or of the total amount of HUF 1200 billion, then I think that we should beware of every bill that would provide such loopholes to the government in order to make certain money disappear. If you are referring to the need to combat terrorism to protect railway safety, then this is how you should ask why, let's say, the outsourcing of the railway guard activity is not better monitored. It was tendered at the end of 2015, when it was released to the Public Procurement Notice. We're talking 18 billion forints plus VAT, big fat mouthful here. And if the government were to keep its ears open, then, indeed, complaints are constantly coming from the simple workers of the area, the hardworking young people who rise early, because it is one thing that I receive in the form of an answer, I do, Mr Fónagy, that you do not actually have anything to do with the subcontractors of the main contractor here, but, if you consider railway safety to be important in practice, you would be able not to have anomalies such as those which, in connection with the Western Railway Station, exploded a few weeks ago, that the simple workers who had been eviscerated by subcontractors there, on behalf of the subcontractors, would have to fulfil this task, which is really very important. That is why this part of this bill, this salad law, is something that we cannot accept - once again. Then we can go to an even more substantial point, perhaps, in point 6 of the bill: the 2006 LIII on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments that are of national importance. amendment of the law. This law was born during the Gyurcsány government and is one of the legislative acts that the opposition and civil society at that time strongly opposed. Why is that? Because they saw it strengthen the two-speed economy, they saw that companies with a multinational background and a government background preferred by the government at the time have a new competitive advantage by loosening up the authorisation of their investments. When the Fidesz-KDNP government came to power in 2010, this was one of the laws that should have been changed, and since they did not change it, the angle came out of the bag because it turned out to be instrumental and balance differences, but it is still the same as during the Gyurcsány government. By the way, the voters who trusted the promise of change would have expected you to abolish laws of this kind and similar principle and come to Parliament with such a proposal. That's not how it happened. In 2010, 2011, 2013 and now, instead of abolishing it, it was confirmed. How's that? This law has been extended to new areas of expertise, the procedural deadlines have been further reduced and the powers of the administrative authorities have been further reduced. Of course, it is very important for Jobbik to have all kinds of infrastructure investments so that they can operate smoothly and do so, but in this case or in these cases, the scandalous precedents, the anomalies that accompanied infrastructure development in Hungary during your six-year governance could be listed. That's not what this is about. That's why we're suspicious, by the way. Why should we believe that, ladies and gentlemen? Why should we accept, by the way, Mr Secretary of State - whom I respect and respect infinitely, but what we are talking about here is a ministerial proposal - that what we, the opposition, are trying to get us here to support this bill? This law is none other than one of your aids from your extensive toolbox to highlight your friends and your kind multinational companies from competition in the market, and not only from surplus resources, but also from unhindered investment opportunities in locations where you can benefit politically and economically. The aim is to ensure that neither settlement, cultural heritage protection, environmental and nature conservation aspects are an obstacle to the business. By the way, as if János Kóka dictated to you this bill, to whom the immortal and, how shall I put it, an invaluable sentence comes to mind, who said that frogs are not usually asked when they drain the swamp. It's like it's been poured into words, sentences, paragraphs. This is ensured by the accelerated procedure, which only gives time to seal, the abolition of administrative bodies, the organisation of the administrative administration in government offices and the exclusion of local communities, municipalities and civil society organisations from the decision-making process. Priority investment in transport infrastructure has obviously been part of the law, and the new provisions in the proposal concerning this area not only increase, extend the existing competitive advantages, but also introduce dictatorial elements into the decision-making process, which has been unknown to date. One of the elements of the regulation governance that you are putting in place is the proposal. By the way, why the Parliament, why the municipalities, when government decrees, perhaps even legislative decrees, can replace, overwrite, save this democratic macera? Of course, it will be possible to cling to the fluid concept of public interest, since Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is Prime Minister XIV. After Louis, he would be free to say that the state is me, so the almighty decree would become public interest regardless of its content. This is not only metaphorically thought, but also the 33rd. Paragraph 4 of Section 4 also describes the public interest in carrying out the investment in transport infrastructure as defined in the Regulation. You know what I mean? It is not in the public interest that such an investment is in the public interest, but that it is in the public interest that the result of such an investment is in the public interest, but that it is recorded in the law. And if your government makes a decree, regardless of its content, impact, financial indicators, it is in the public interest. What can the state do by means of a decree if the proposal is yet to be adopted? It can establish by order the path of the investment in transport infrastructure, its area band, which can be a 200-metre wide band. Even though we're gonna need a damn environmental license, it's government-wide, so I'm sure it's not gonna be a big problem. However, building permits are absolutely no problem. In fact, the regulation overrides all other requirements, the authorisation must be assessed in accordance with the requirements of the Regulation, even if this infringes the interest of the municipality. Moreover, the municipality will be obliged to adapt its own spatial planning plan to the Regulation within six months. Article 33 (a) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) Paragraph 7 of this Article will be an absurd legal history in the Hungarian democratic arrangement; if democracy can be discussed at all after its entry into force. I would read: the application for a building permit must be assessed in accordance with the requirements of the regulation, in the absence of consistency of the means of settlement with the regulation. In this case, the declaration of professional competence concerning the compliance of the notary, main notary settlement planning requirements and local construction requirements shall not be required in the building authorisation procedure. Please, you can shut down the councils here. Why do you even have municipal elections? Schools nationalized, public works and public services nationalised, settlement settlements nationalized, resource allocation centralized, in fact, the municipalities then remained in this form to employ some public workers according to government goals and favor, and there they would take the trenches and collect the trash. And the thing is, it's not over yet, because they're giving public licenses to construction companies. In the last week, news was once again the Prime Minister's favourite toy train, the Felcsút railway, which was individually manufactured from public money in the 1:1 scale. Three stops have been completed with a track length of less than six kilometres. It's very skinny, a good-for-nothing field table gives you more experience. Undeserved - although promised and not reopened - vehicles secretly transported and renovated from a birch railway are largely unused. [[13.00]] It will be an absurd rule of law in the democratic arrangement of Hungary; if democracy can be discussed at all after its entry into force. I would read: the application for a building permit must be assessed in accordance with the requirements of the regulation, in the absence of consistency of the means of settlement with the regulation. In this case, the declaration of professional competence concerning the compliance of the notary, main notary settlement planning requirements and local construction requirements shall not be required in the building authorisation procedure. Please, you can shut down the councils here. Why do you even have municipal elections? Schools nationalized, public works and public services nationalised, settlement settlements nationalized, resource allocation centralized, in fact, the municipalities then remained in this form to employ some public workers according to government goals and favor, and there they would take the trenches and collect the trash. And the thing is, it's not over yet, because they're giving public licenses to construction companies. In the last week, news was once again the Prime Minister's favourite toy train, the Felcsút railway, which was individually manufactured from public money in the 1:1 scale. Three stops have been completed with a track length of less than six kilometres. It's very skinny, a good-for-nothing field table gives you more experience. Undeserved - although promised and not reopened - vehicles secretly transported and renovated from a birch railway are largely unused. (13.00) So we have a solution: we need to extend this small railway from Bicsk to Etyek, and then it's not a line, it's a network, there's more trains on it. But the people of Etyek don't like it, they don't like it, they don't make up with the trail plan, they have different ideas about spatial planning, they don't want a small train to Bicske, they think about different relationships, they want to travel elsewhere. And then there's also that it's embarrassing, but there's also private property here, and they're on the way to the trail. But here is the solution, Mr. Secretary of State: by regulation, the Etyek trail may be in the public interest, and the 1:1 scale field table is ready for 9 billion forints. So we congratulate the Prime Minister on his beautiful Christmas present. The thing is, we can't accept this, because the children of Etyek are more than one, but they will not receive such a Christmas gift by decree. Thank you very much for your attention and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-11-09-58	Welcome. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There will now be speeches by Members, as no one has applied for a two-minute speech. As a normal speaker, Congressman Péter Kónya, is independent, please.
u2016-11-09-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As my fellow opposition Members have already referred to it, there were those who called this package a salad law, some who called it something else, and I would like to compare it to the orange I was able to buy on the market the other day: the orange was very beautiful on the outside when I took it home and pulled it off, and I saw it rotting inside. This is about the same set of laws, and perhaps I would like to compare the draft law on the establishment of a central database to the peel of oranges, which is a good initiative, and I think that if this is done, it will indeed serve the interests of citizens. At the same time, I was a member of a photography club when I was in primary school, and I made the mistake of going up to a railway overpass and taking pictures of a transit train; I was taken by the police at the beginning of the 1980s, because it was forbidden to take pictures of different railway vehicles or railway stations for reasons of national security. Then, fortunately, my taking a photograph as a child and a student did not result in imprisonment. But we are slowly moving in the direction that they will be posted again, these,, photographing forbidden, boards, which, by the way, now, during the time of satellite reconnaissance, do not make any sense if you think about it. Unfortunately, what I see is that the threat of terrorism is being exploited, not only in this area, but in virtually all areas of life and in all segments of life, that while the use of public funds in normal democracies is completely transparent and transparent, you are trying to conceal or conceal and encrypt virtually everything that is related to the use of public money, referring to the threat of terrorism and public security, the prevention of crime and any other such delicacy. That doesn't mean anything more than that, Mr. Secretary, that this is about some kind of shit, backup agreements, the theft of public funds. You treat public money like it's your own money. Public money, Mr. Secretary, is about what is being used for it, all of which must be transparent to citizens, because it is our money, it is not your money, it is our money. And based on the fact that there are different security aspects here, and therefore the technical data of the vehicles must be encrypted or encrypted, it is, I think, an over-movement of something that is simply incomprehensible and unacceptable, and I think that this should be taken out. My fellow Members have already pointed out that it is possible that this could be used to conceal the technical data of the small railway station in Felcsút, or to cover up the works related to the railway line between Budapest-Belgrád, or to conceal the problems relating to metro 3 and the anomalies there. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to one more thing. As a resident of Budapest, who regularly use the M3 metro trains and regularly travel by public transport, I am also glad that the renovated metro trains seem not to be renovated metro trains coming from Russia, but brand new trains - as a travelling citizen I may not have a problem with. One or two false modifications have been made to previously manufactured fittings, as you can hear from the news, and as you look at the photos and technical data, it turns out that they are not refurbished fittings, but we get previously manufactured fittings instead of the fittings to be renovated. There are only two problems with that. Firstly, this violates the public procurement procedure, because it was not about getting new fittings, but about the old fittings - there is an infringement here. And the other thing that no one has said so far is that they are committing a level of customs fraud that is skyrocketing, because it does not matter whether the refurbished fittings are coming back from Russia or new fittings disguised as refurbished fittings, because they have a very different rate of duty when they arrive in Hungary, and the Hungarian State is falling away from billions, because Russia does not pay the duty on the supplies, because after new trains there would be a different rate of duty on this thing. And that may be what this law is about, that they want to hide, the technical data, because the technical data will clearly reveal that these fittings, which come from Russia, are not refurbished fittings, but brand-new fittings, just disguised. So I am asking you, Mr. Secretary of State - just so that you do not cast this shadow on the government, because we know that you are honest and honest, so as not to cast unfairness, fraud and other shadows on you - to remove from the law all ideas of such encryption, and then we believe that you are honest, not just that. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-09-60	Thank you very much. The representative of the LMP, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, is next. Here you go.
u2016-11-09-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am now in the ungrateful role of really joining my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs in substance, as he gave up the balls to which he should most respond. First of all, I would like to put an end to the fact that we are talking about the railway here permanently, because it is not a nice thing; some people dream that they will have their own railway as adults, their own stadium where children can play football, so obviously this dream is not nice, and, as I say, the problem is not that it is there, but the problem is that the other 3300 settlements do not have a small train and a stadium, but they do not have health care or a school. So let's skip the little train. However, speaking of Balázs Ander, he was kind enough to mention the name of the 14th century. Louis and his famous saying, then his successor, XV. Let us also mention Lajos: after us, the deluge, and this law is about to bring about this, since in many of its provisions it does not deal with the future of maintaining, maintaining and operating all of this in the subsequent periods. Obviously, since we've been talking about these princes and kings here, it's worth mentioning one more thing, since we're here, let's talk about it. Mr Ander Balázs also said that this law could confer an advantage on certain market participants and operators. I was surprised to hear that. However, it is still possible to support something, because if we didn't support it, then we would be sitting here in practice, because all the laws that come into Parliament as government proposals are about that, so we can still appreciate and appreciate the good moments that this contains. But perhaps you will forgive me, Mr Secretary, that if I did not emphasise the benefits and the positive changes that appear in some points, I would not so much emphasise, and I would rather point out the processes that I would like to propose as constructive criticism for consideration in terms of weeding. The most serious thing in the law, in our view, is clearly the expansion of the process that involves extending the possibility of expropriation. The system of investments - as my fellow Member Ander referred to - was introduced by the Gyurcsány government in favour of the protest of the then Orbán government, and interestingly, the Orbán government has widened its scope in a broad and extreme way. This system excludes from some investments a wide range of stakeholders, harming the interests of individuals and local communities with often poorly planned or harmful construction. [[13.10]] The possibility of taking action against them should be given, whereas the government is constantly narrowing it down and not learning from experience, and apparently these key government investments appear to be everywhere as a cancer of society and override the interests of individuals and communities. We have the opportunity here at times to exchange ideas with Mr Secretary of State, which is why I know that he does not generally speak positively about the years of communism in Hungary, although I have to say that this kind of action, which Fidesz is doing now, brings back in spirit the years when the interests of individuals and communities, on the grounds of certain perceived public interest, were completely overwritten. It is very far from the approach of individualist society to individuals having a say in their affairs, having self-determination, and having ownership and decisions on their own. Unfortunately, this appears to be a completely opposite effect in the system of priority investments, which is a problem because not only local communities and local societies are the losers of this, but also, in many cases, many other public goals, such as environmental protection, which will also be decided in a procedure that is already suitable for everything, but only to protect our environmental values and health borders. And obviously, as the previous speakers have already referred to, besides excluding information from the process, it is unacceptable to encrypt a XXI. In a democracy of the century, since public affairs basically requires that the Hungarian society has all the information that it can vote on, on which it can make decisions. If we withdraw information from them, we cannot expect objective, wise votes and wise decisions to be made. It is obviously unacceptable for a representative of a party such as LMP, who is fundamentally committed to transparency, transparency and publicity of information. The aspects of rail and other infrastructure expropriation rules are practically part of this process. Article 33 (a) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) Paragraph 2 states that the State may, at the time of the establishment of the trail, when granting a building permit, cross the local government's spatial planning plans, the owners of the areas and the so-called difficulties in expropriating the municipalities concerned without any particular concern. These are the same processes that, in a normal rule of law, where individuals retain their right, they go in a very, very worrying direction. I would not, by any chance, like to condemn the whole of the law, as I am grateful to Mr Secretary of State for creating this opportunity to talk about Hungarian transport and transport policy here, but what we need to see is that in most cases dealing with the problems of transport policy should not be merely a development policy. If we look back, I do not know whether the case of the M44 is being avoided, or if our fellow Member, who sits among us, regularly mentions the case of the M4: if we look back on the rural roads, which we talk about from time to time, that if we think about the fact that there are countries in northern Europe where a Member of Parliament does not receive a fuel card, but a lease on public transport, because there is a quality of public transport where there is a way to go without further ado, then there is a good deal to do. There is much to be done in the area of public transport in the capital, and there is much to be done in general in the field of national public transport. So it is good that we can talk about this, but the sacrifice of everything on the altar of development policy and perhaps sacrifice to our interests there may not be acceptable to us. There are two current reasons for this amendment. We don't want to be misguided, but these are the spirit of the whole thing, and we obviously don't feel acceptable about it. It is just a comment that it is also typical of the government to twist and change long-term regulations along current interests, and we have seen this in the granite-solid yet modified Constitution six times, often in the pivotal laws and now in transport. Obviously, this is a problem because you may be familiar with the English saying that serious situations create bad rules, and, where appropriate, it is not certain that a complete override of general regulation is necessary. One of the current topics is the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, where the government has already reported on the difficulties of marking the track. Now it seems that we are building a 500 billion-dollar railway with Hungarian money for Chinese goods, whether they come or not, but the investment will be loss-making from an economic point of view, but the government will mark it as a very important goal. This is a problem, because if we look at the fact that the Fidesz majority Parliament of Hungary has adopted the framework strategy on national sustainable development in the form of a parliamentary decision, then we must say that these commercial aspects of goods mobility and neoliberal economic policy are not in line with what the Fidesz majority parliament has accepted in terms of guidelines. But they are going forward, just as Demszky beat the country with subway 4, astronomical costs for a bad investment, and this Belgrade-Budapest seems to be a similar direction for Hungary at the moment. And what is particularly worrying is that this investment also concerns nature conservation areas, and allow me to speak a little on the way home in my own field, because, after the Orbán government has dismantled the institutional system of environmental protection and has made destruction, free robbery, rather than preserving our common natural resources, the norm across the country, at least when it is not an investor, not a bad-meaning economic operator, who is primarily concerned with its business aspects, but the government itself is developing a nature conservation area that is at risk, but we would ask the government to do so, because there would be an opportunity here to reduce environmental and nature protection damage by alternative solutions. With the key investment law and now the relaxation of expropriations, it virtually eliminates the institutions that can curb destruction. Once again, this is an instrument which is essentially a threat to the rule of law, as the government is practically interfering with the public administration's system by political means. Obviously, this is the direction, from the moment these are not administrative offices, but government offices, we can say that it is normal, because now the government wants to influence the decisions of the Hungarian government, but if we believe that there can ever be a normal rule of law in Hungary, then, yes, there is a need for the brakes that can be maintained by an administrative system independent of politics. Therefore, by relaxing these expropriations, by eliminating institutions that can curb destruction, this is obviously not a direction to be supported. The other current case is the issue of the small railway in Etyek, as my opposition colleagues have referred to. Here, the resistance of the locals is being practically broken by this law. Unfortunately, some of us here - the three of us from Fidesz ranks and some of us opposition representatives - are here to talk about this unique case, and we are trying to completely override it by practically a national law, which does not seem like a sympathetic thing, and it is almost a despicable thing, since practically the small railway on Psstút was an expensive and pointless prestige investment. As much as our prime minister may have dreamed of doing something like this for himself once in his childhood, we can't see it as a positive, socially beneficial activity. And practically suddenly violence is being committed in a settlement that doesn't want it, and no one will benefit from it, either nationally or individually, except for the construction company. But obviously, if the Secretary of State has information on how the revenue-generating capacity of the small railway in Felcsút to date contributes to the income of the national economy to such an extent that it must be taken as a material factor in Hungary's budget, then it is obviously worth considering, but at the moment, what we may know from lying press, but from press news, is essentially the underutility of this system, the empty and uneconomic reservation. So obviously we share the concerns of the people of Etyek, and their problems are obviously to be represented here within the walls of the Parliament. In addition to the expropriations, there is a senseless encryption, as has already been partly referred to by my fellow opposition Members. For 30 years, they encrypt data that are basically public affairs, and basically all of us, because they come from our taxes and are linked to the use of money by public service companies. The encryption of these, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, is unacceptable for a XXI. It's a century of democracy. In the world of mass media, social networks, the publicity of these data, the transparency of these data should be served as much as possible by a government calling itself democratic. From now on, it will be much more difficult to obtain data on the situation of the HÉV, the subways, the MÁV, the small trains. We will not know, for example, how much renovation and maintenance work costs, we do not know how these are realized, what overpriced can be, because we do not know exactly what it is necessary to build it, we do not know the reason, and we do not know the background. The justification refers to the prevention of criminal offences and terrorism, which seems a little ridiculous at the moment, as, obviously, not reducing the importance of these risks, there are other social problems on which to respond, and therefore, in Hungary's economic processes, the depopulation of the countryside, its contribution to migration and the efforts to catch up in the countryside should appear as a much stronger argument for such developments. And we are going back to what we have been talking about in the field of transport policy, how it is worth providing resources for the maintenance of the current road network, rural roads and public transport. [[13.20]] My group is of the opinion that we do not believe very much that it is a matter of preventing crime, but rather of supporting crimes through the adoption of this law: theft, fraudulent treatment, and, obviously, this encryption appears to be more a threat to the purity of public life than, in particular, a means of reducing danger. Because of these parts, recognising some positive changes, the law is not acceptable to the May Other Politics; and the faction's position is that in this form it cannot support it. Thank you so much for the opportunity. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-09-62	Thank you very much. Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik, please.
u2016-11-09-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I listed the arguments and excuses that made the Jobbik faction unable to accept this salad law for about a quarter of an hour. On the other hand, my fellow Members called for a constructive debate. Then let's not just be critical, obviously it will be now, but I would like to highlight why we have a problem with you presenting such salad laws to the House; because there are a lot of elements that we could nod on with a full chest width, and we say that yes, it is useful, it is in the interests of the Hungarian people. These include, for example, a package of proposals to increase the safety of used vehicle purchases within the draft legislative amendment. We know that there are over 3 million 200,000 passenger cars in Hungary. The average age of these is unfortunately 13.7 years. This is four years older than the great European average, including Romania and Bulgaria. And how bad we are and how some politicians, who are completely estranged from the Hungarian reality, have locked themselves in every very beautiful government ivory tower with every very good philosophy, and how well they would do if they looked around, it would be possible to see precisely that, say, in 2008, more than 153 thousand new cars were sold in Hungary, this was only 77 thousand in the last year, and in parallel, the sales rate of used vehicles increased. There we are, 440,000 used vehicles sold in Hungary a year. And 22 percent of this is imported from abroad, and I would add that the average age in this case is higher than ten years, so such a bill that aims to make shopping safer, or decent traders should not suffer competitive disadvantages because of cheating bastards who rewind mileage, who hide the real technical parameters of these vehicles, should not suffer such competitive disadvantages in the market, and should somehow resolve this situation. We could fully support this, as I mentioned at the very beginning, the proposal on water transport. I'm just gonna add that I'm really sorry, by the way, that it doesn't come to the fore or into the spotlight on such occasions. Water transport in Hungary, because if we had something to improve, this would be the area. I know that in recent years, quite rightly, 50 billion HUF has been spent on inland ports. We always support that kind of thing. Obviously, we add that this should be done in a transparent way, not by increasing the pockets of buddy oligarchs, but we support these infrastructure developments, especially in the light of the fact that EU standards, at least drafts, are in place to shift 30 percent of road freight over 300 kilometres to rail and inland waterway transport by 2030. Unfortunately, we are very far away from this, and there are only 14 years left. Nevertheless, there is a huge gap that separates fantasies and reality. Within Europe there are 37,000 inland waterways for shipping. The most important of these is the 3,500 kilometers long Danube-Majna-Rine system from Rotterdam in the North Sea to Szulina at the Danube Delta. The fact is that Hungary could play a very important role in this, if the authorities took this more seriously, because we also have 1500 kilometres of inland waterways, and the geographical centre of this Danube-Majna-Rajen system falls on Hungary - this is at Dunaalmás - and unfortunately I can say that this is only the geographical centre. It would be very good if this could also be a logistics centre, because this could boost Hungary economically, on the one hand, and on the other hand, if we think about the enormous damage caused by road traffic that is raging through us, it could be named and quantified: this represents an item of HUF 350 billion per year in infrastructure degradation and other negative externalities - this HUF 350 billion is caused only by the traffic of heavy goods vehicles that are raging through us - then, I think, to negle such a potential opportunity on the part of Hungary that the Danube would mean for us. It is actually a multi-band and very cheap motorway, where negative externalities - even railway - account for only one-eighth and one-seventh of road-negative externalities. So from an environmental point of view, from an economic point of view, in all aspects of the interests of the Hungarian people, it would be only good if this could be given much more emphasis here at some point. However, I would like to say once again that the statistics that we can encounter here are regrettable, since the volume of goods marketed in the country over a year, delivered in the country is less than 3 per cent of 275 million tonnes, only 8 tonnes. They are transported on inland waterways, although these inland waterways should be integrated into these multimodal transport corridors in Hungary as well. These should certainly be boosted, and let me mention it here, and this may not please my fellow Member Sallai: let me mention something here about the desire of the Association of Hungarian Logistics Services Centres. It is said that it would be very good for Hungary if the Danube could be sailed for 340 days, but this also assumes that dams should be built here, dams should be built, power plants should be built. This complex system should be created because it won't work any other way. Even further north, south of us, Hungary is trying to move it away from us by sticking to some dark green guidelines, although it is in the interests of the Hungarian people, not that the port density here, despite the above mentioned developments, is only a third of the German territory. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-09-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Tasó if he wants to reflect. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-09-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We've heard very valuable comments in the last few minutes or more in the hour, and let me start with what we agree on. Here the bill, which presents 11 major amendments to us, has shown a number of elements with which the factions agreed - to go ahead and thank Fidesz and KDNP for their supporting contributions. I would like to appeal to opposition colleagues to say that we agreed and agree that we are trying to address the problems related to the marketing of used vehicles with this registration system, which will be possible from 1 January 18 during a single survey procedure. That's a good move. Reducing the abuse of temporary plates is also clear to everyone, and everyone agrees with it. We also agree that the working time, working schedule, working time schedule, working time schedule for workers in the shipping or water sub-sector should be settled, but we also need to be able to do harmonisation by the end of the 16th year, immediately stopping for a moment. In English: time also urges us. By stopping at water transport, we can see that we are trying to take serious steps in the field of water transport, and those steps will also be successful, paying attention and reflecting on the comments of my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs. I would just like to highlight the preparation of the master shipping plan, which will present and serve precisely that the plans needed to increase the opportunities for water transport and increase freight traffic in the water transport area by developing shipping lines will clearly be the music of the coming years, the hopefully successful story of the coming years. [[13.30]] With regard to rail transport, of course, it is also clear and supported by everyone that the world and opportunities of rail freight should be increased, but this is also served by the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. So we have exactly the same opinion. They may be trying to strengthen other instruments on this, but this will certainly help. What kind of goods this line will deliver, we know well that it will be clear that it will continue to distribute goods from the Eastern world, and for Hungary it will certainly create an opportunity with which, if we do not live, we will fall out of a circle that is likely to cause economic disadvantages for Hungary. So we agree here, too. If we look at how the proposal wants to curb or protect technical data, then we must agree again, because I think everyone agrees that in today's world, precisely during today's communication explosion and in the world of IT development, we can see how much danger the current Community transport system is at risk. We can even bring up the Melbourne example, and I think it's just enough to think about subway 4, where the subway driver is not in the booth, and it doesn't take too much preparation, so if you want someone to intervene and get in control. So when it comes to protecting technical data, it is not just about protecting vehicles, but also about protecting vehicle software. We would also like to avoid what we have seen in many adventure films, the interference of hackers, the access to systems, the change of operation, the movement of aircraft or any of the elements of the Community transport system, and thus deliberately, either by increasing the threat of terrorism or by any other specific means of harm, they can clearly intervene in systems that need to be monitored more closely. The purpose of the proposal is to protect this, i.e. to protect technical data, and not to protect other data relevant to national security, and that we are not talking about a full ban, but that the responsible minister can decide and decide which information to state that information cannot be disclosed from a national security point of view and which is clearly accessible. So, if we look at it, our goal is to operate our transport systems safely, our rail systems, and naturally in any case, where possible and in the event of terrorism, to prevent it. If we are trying to examine the technical data, and we are wondering how much technical data is needed to think that we have all the information, then we would have to issue a great deal of information, which, in truth, does not make too much sense. What is important is that we do not touch it at all and that there is no change in the system and order of the public procurement procedure during the regulation. The reason why we do not understand or really understand how information on renovation and maintenance comes here is because there is no measure in the proposal. Therefore, we do not understand it because, although everything is related to everything, it is now obvious and we understand it, but we do not understand, however, how information-related concerns about the restriction of technical data are raised here which are not limited. Whether my fellow Member Józsa or my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs, or my fellow Member Mr Sallai R. Benedek, or Péter Kónya said that transparent systems should work, public money should be taken into account. This regulation does not in any way affect existing systems, in any way restricts access to any field. It is merely a matter of returning to the availability of technical data just now that what can be assessed from the point of view of the terrorist threat or national security so that you are not limited will be regulated by the competent minister. It was about dreams, my colleague Sallai. Dreams move people. If there are no dreams, we cannot plan our next transport development or any other investment, because dreams are usually also plans, dreams are made from dreams, and if the implementation of the plans is in the public interest, it is absolutely important and must be supported. What the public interest is - once again, the proposal does not regulate what the public interest is. I think that in a national spatial planning plan, followed by a county approval, the municipality should then approve with its own instruments the provisions in the higher legislation that decide on an investment. So the regulation here only makes it possible that if, for six months, the municipality is unable to do so, for whatever reason, it cannot or does not want to do so, then, if a higher legislation already provides for this, it can happen, and this should not prevent the investment from being carried out in itself. It was also about expropriation, obviously. No element of the proposal hinders the interests of private property, otherwise it is not undermined. I don't even know how that came up. If we look at the objections to official proceedings, which in 2015 amounted to 2540 pieces, what are they about, then we can see that in the expropriation, they do not really object to the legal basis, but only in 1 percent, 33 cases, but to the additional demand. So what we are really talking about is that the owner has a higher claim for compensation, and that's why he has objections, not the legal basis. In this respect, therefore, we do not in any way undermine the private ownership that appears in this regard. [[He replaced István Szávay in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]] All of our amendments, as I have said, serve to simplify, make our rules more sensible and help make investments of high importance. I think that everyone who can work as a decision-maker in the Hungarian Parliament has an interest in making the investments determined by the government, if they have a source, as soon as possible. These amendments included in the proposal also discuss this, which is promoted, and regulations make it easier for workers and make it easier for them to make rules that we have all agreed on. So I am pleased that we agree on the goals and that there are clearly differences and differences in the instruments. We will take into account and listen to constructive, supportive actions, see, observe, naturally take into account and listen to them. We hope, however, that the Parliament will adopt our proposal unanimously in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-09-66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[Dr. István Józsa: Good job, Laci! You could be a minister with that kind of talk.]] Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain climate and green economy development laws until closure. Government referral T/12721. The information document of the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, Minister of State of the Ministry of National Development. Mr. Secretary of State will switch seats, and please, Mr. Secretary, read your words. Here you go.
u2016-11-09-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you covers several areas of both climate policy and green economy development. It also includes changes to the laws on electricity, building energy efficiency and water utility services on climate policy. In the case of amendments to climate legislation, the proposal lays down an exception rule for undertakings engaged in activities of social interest in the field of fluorinated greenhouse gases, in particular for research, development and medical purposes, such as cancer research. Therefore, these undertakings do not need to be specifically qualified to carry out activities related to fluorinated greenhouse gases, but simply require a separate letter of authorisation issued by the National Climate Protection Authority in the context of an application. [[13.40]] Further amendments to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol Implementing System Act will abolish the category of late payment allowances for undertakings or natural persons engaged in activities related to fluorinated greenhouse gases and allow payment facilitation and possible extension of the delivery time limit for the climate protection fine. In addition, the bill itself aims to increase the effectiveness of the controls carried out by the National Climate Protection Authority and to include in particular the related procedural activities. By amending the law on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading system, it is possible to remedy the difficulties encountered in interpreting the practice and application of the law. In addition, the new legislation requires the Minister of National Economy to report to Parliament annually on the use of revenue in respect of emission quotas that may be used by Member States only if the revenue generated in that year exists, so there is. The proposal also states, like the supervisory fee, that the account management fee should be declared a public debt to be recovered as a form of tax. The amendment of the Electricity Act requires the rapid introduction of the so-called METAR, a system of support for renewable electricity production adopted in the summer of 2016. The introduction of the METAR system is intended to comply with the requirements of the European Union Guidelines on State aid for the Environment and Energy. On the basis of these guidelines, new payment entitlements can, in principle, be obtained during a competitive procedure and, from 2017 onwards, it would be possible to define renewable energy production on this principle. The entry into force of the legislative package adopted in the summer of 2016 is subject to a decision approving the European Commission. However, due to the delay in the European Commission's notification procedure, this is not possible until 1 January, so it is not possible to launch METAR on 1 January. In order to bridge the delay resulting from the notification procedure, we would like to put in place several elements of the new aid scheme as of 1 January 2017 and would like to establish it in the light of the State aid rules in accordance with the so-called block exemption regulation. The fourth area covered by the bill is the amendment of the Energy Efficiency Act, which aims to meet the obligation to save energy under the Energy Efficiency Directive. This is done by means of so-called alternative policy measures on the basis of the Parliament's previous decision. Three policy measures will be put in place if this bill is adopted. We want to establish a national energy network, introduce an obligation to use the energy specialist and implement other measures to promote the energy efficiency of public and municipal buildings. On the basis of practical experience, the bill initiates amendments to the regulation of energy audit aimed at ensuring that rules relating to the control of energy audits and related fines are clear. These will be supplemented accordingly. The range of large companies subject to energy audits is narrowed and the qualification and practical requirements of energy auditors are clarified in the legislation. As far as the fifth area of the bill is concerned, the proposals for amendments to the Water Utilities Act serve a less extensive purpose of reducing costs and red tape, as well as, in several cases, of a more precise nature. The proposal also covers the reduction of the disproportionate consumer burden resulting from transitional charges, thus complying with the government's efforts to reduce its costs. The purpose of the amendment is also to increase the customer rights of the authorities responsible for the procedure and to empower them to legislate in order to protect consumers' interests. Local authorities may participate as clients in the procedures for issuing decisions setting transitional fees and provide an opinion on the extent of the fees. This means that they will receive the decision issued by the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office and can appeal against them. The amendment also empowers municipalities to grant discounts to consumers in respect of transitional fees, thereby reducing the burden on the general public and supporting the intention of reducing the costs. The purpose of the bill is also to shorten the deadline for administration of public authorities' issues of national importance relating to water quality improvement and waste water treatment and investments in waste water treatment and waste water treatment, which are listed in the decision establishing an annual development framework for the government's environmental and energy efficiency operational programme. The amendment will help to achieve these investments as soon as possible in line with EU standards and bureaucracy reduction efforts. Dear House, Please, the T/12721 in front of us. To discuss, support and adopt a bill tabled at the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-09-68	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. First, the speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Jenő Manninger, is the speaker. Here.
u2016-11-09-69	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is well known that the European Union and our country must take significant steps to combat climate change in order to adapt to climate change in the environment, society and the economy. It should be taken into account that if the temperature increases by 2 degrees Celsius compared to the pre-industrial period, it will have irreversible and catastrophic consequences. To prevent this, the European Union intends to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to the 1990 base year. It is also important for our country to remain strong in the fight against climate change and to be able to adapt successfully to the effects of climate change in environmental, social and economic areas. This requires continuous legislative work. The proposal we have just tabled contains these. The proposal before you, i.e. the bill amending certain laws on climate policy and the development of the green economy, seeks to amend six laws in order to make it more successful in the fields of climate policy, greenhouse gas trade, electricity, energy, energy efficiency, water utilities. The Secretary of State spoke in detail about the content of the bill. Allow me to highlight just a few important points. In the context of the amendment to the climate policy, it should be pointed out that, in order to increase the effectiveness of the controls carried out by the National Climate Protection Authority, it is necessary to regulate procedural acts such as the purchase of tests and the investigation related to the undiscovered test purchase. The amendments to the water utility service also serve better administration and modernisation of the regulatory framework, shortening the administrative deadline for national priority administrative issues relating to water quality improvement, sanitation and cleaning investments. It is very important to amend the law on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. [[13.50]] The proposal clarifies, for example, introduces a fine payment obligation in order to sanction the unpaid account management fee and thus qualifies it as a public debt to be recovered as a tax. Energy efficiency changes can also be highlighted. It should be stated here that the government decided in its 2010/2016 decision on applicable policy measures to save energy. The Minister for National Development must prepare the legislation necessary for the establishment and operation of the national energy network and establish legislation on energy consumption in public and municipal buildings. It is also necessary to introduce the Energy Rapporteur Institution as a policy measure. On the basis of practical experience, it amends the regulation of energy audit. It aims to clarify, supplement, narrow down the size of large companies subject to audit, clarify the qualifications and practical requirements of auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, the bill before us includes amendments to the introduction of MECÁR. The METAR system should be introduced as soon as possible. As Minister of State has said, the amendment proposal in this regard serves to launch it from 1 January 2017 as a support system for the time being. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the amendments which serve both climate policy and green economy objectives and the reduction of emissions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-70	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, lead speaker at the MSZP, is the next speaker. Here.
u2016-11-09-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Although the title of the bill is partly about the development of the green economy, it hinders, slows down and hinders the dissemination of green solutions in Hungary. With regard to measures to improve energy efficiency, it is worth mentioning that in autumn 2015 the government took away some HUF 100 billion of EU funds from the non-refundable energy improvement programme allocated to the population. However, the European Commission has not approved the transfer, so hopefully it will be used to improve energy efficiency in the domestic housing stock, thereby helping the population. In terms of improving energy efficiency, a comprehensive renewal of the domestic housing stock would be needed, which would permanently reduce public energy bills, reduce environmental burden, reduce Hungary's import dependency, increase domestic construction order stock. I think that all of these areas are very important to Hungary today. It is important that grants are also available for retail investment. A solution would also be the implementation of the ESCO type funding renovation programme, which has already been proposed by the MSZP. The launch of MEDAR will be six years late compared to the date originally announced in July 2011, due not to the delay of the European Commission, but to the late presentation of the government. The government did not act in this case either to green the economy. I think that banning wind power plants was a mistake. You know, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members, the real reduction would be a comprehensive renovation of the residential housing of the population, because the real reduction would be if we didn't have to pay those immensely large heating bills, which now comes from the fact that the houses are not well isolated, they're not renovated, because people don't have the money to take these steps. I think that a programme should be developed that will be available to all residents. Not only the wealthy should have the opportunity to achieve this, but also those who really care about how much their bills are; those who are really important months after month, how much they have to spend on checks and bills. I think that we need to develop a programme that is in the interest of the majority of the population and not the minority that can pay for it. The MSZP will not support the adoption of the bill, as it does not substantially support the development of the green economy, does not help the renewal of the domestic housing stock and thus reduces the public's energy bill. It still does not give impetus to greater domestic use of renewable energy sources. With regard to the water utility service, our group and several fellow Members have often said that the tax levied on the length of the pipelines depends on the tax to be paid to water utility providers is unfair. I therefore believe that the MSZP will not support this proposal in this form. A program should be set up that really deals with people and is to the satisfaction of the population. Thank you.
u2016-11-09-72	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli is next, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-11-09-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, When a bill on climate policy and green economy development is put on the table of Parliament, it is always a bit of an opportunity and an opportunity to look at the situation of the world in this respect, or the measures taken in this way after the Paris Climate Summit - [[It's a loudspeaker error.]] Sorry, something is creaking - so after taking a number of measures such as the Paris Climate Summit and various global gatherings to reduce or avoid the effects of climate change or to adapt to impacts, which I think is at least as important. At the moment, perhaps the most recent event, which could affect this trend at global level, is the US presidential election, as it is a question of where the United States, as a major issuer, will start on this path, will continue the programmes launched by its predecessor, or will completely break off with tradition, as we know that Trump is not one of the committed greens in this respect. He has previously revealed that climate change probably doesn't exist, but it's just some kind of fiction. So it is questionable how these action plans at global level will result if they are as significant as the United States will not be able to...
u2016-11-09-74	I apologize for interrupting. Maybe any cell phone in your area or near your microphone. [[Lajos Kepli: Only in the bench.]] Well, please try to move the cell phone two blocks from the bench. [[Lajos Kepli: I'll try.]] Let's take a look at this exciting experiment. [[It's happening. Lajos Kepli: We will try, thank you very much.]] Go on, Congressman.
u2016-11-09-75	There's a disturbance in the system. So we will probably see the continuation of these processes very soon, and the new President of the United States will also state what his position in this area is and what direction the administration will want to take in the coming years. However, it is certain that the European Union, as one of the world's largest economies, must also make efforts - and it may not be the last place on the world stage to prevent the effects of climate change. However, there are different conventions, agreements, whether at European Union or global level, if they are not or are not properly respected. Since I am a Member of Parliament, for six years now, whenever such a topic is mentioned, it is always said what the Hungarian Government has done to achieve the objectives of climate change, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and it is always said, in relation to a 1990 reference figure, that the decrease of almost 40 percent may have already been achieved, or we are quite close to it, a large part of which has already been achieved at the time of the change of the system, when the heavy industry is down, but it can always be used as an example even after 26 years. Real radical measures have not been taken, either in reducing emissions or in increasing energy efficiency, in any government cycle in the last 26 years. But not only in terms of reducing emissions, but also in terms of adaptation, although we have a national adaptation strategy, we do not see how and how it will be implemented. [[14.00]] In other words, how can we prevent the effects of climate change, which is not primarily an energy issue, but even in preventing the effects of extreme weather, water management and many other areas, but also in the use of renewable energy sources. This is obviously also linked to climate change and the transformation of weather, and to the escalation of extremes. In any event, at the moment in Hungary, renewable energies are not strongly promoted by the current governments as a carbon triggering technology, CO2 generation technology. We have said many times about the taxation of solar panels as an example, the latest law sent back by the President of the Republic, in which the government is responsible for the designation of wind power plants, where and how wind power plants can be installed. This would not be a problem if not soon before the adoption of the law had the government, namely the Ministry of National Development, declared that Hungary's energy strategy could be achieved without new wind power plants and that the nuclear-green-carbon energy mix that was decided in the energy strategy could be achieved without new renewable or new wind energy capacities. By the way, we have supported several elements of the government's energy strategy, such as the extension of the lifetime of the nuclear power plant and the creation of new blocks, perhaps only from the opposition parties, but in any case from the outset. There has been a more radical change in our position on implementation, but there has been a change in its circumstances. After all, when you started encrypting and the entire investment became more and more opaque, we didn't give our votes to those legislative amendments either. But what we see is that nuclear power is also a low-carbon technology in terms of climate change, certainly compared to fossils. There is plenty of capacity in renewable energy sources, and there is plenty of space for nuclear power. We will also say this in every energy strategy debate. Mr State Secretary, in the closing remarks, you will certainly say that there has been a lot going on again, which is not in the strict text of the law, but I think the general debate is about looking at the perspective of how, if we have a bill on climate policy and green economy development, how the country stands at the moment, whether in climate policy or in the green economy, and the bill that has been tabled will help us to improve this, to move forward. It depends, of course, on whether we can support it or not. These are mostly technical details, minor changes in general, very rarely we meet with draft legislation at conceptual level. Of course, the government is within its own competence and one of its own political decisions to change the laws in order to implement what it has decided on a framework strategy. But until we see a conceptual improvement, whether in climate policy or in the development of the green economy, we cannot give our support to these laws with good heart. It is also true with green economy development that this industry has already created thousands of jobs in several countries, in Western European countries, especially in Germany, and we would also have the opportunity to do so if there were serious improvements in energy efficiency investments or in the production of renewable energy equipment, or in other areas covered by the green economy, but this is not apparent. It is not apparent that by improving energy efficiency in the coming years, or, say, in a decade, we could achieve energy savings of a magnitude that would otherwise have been achieved if the government had paid serious attention to this and spent serious resources, it would have been able to achieve such a level of reduction in overhead; as today, in the national expo, we have also heard a few times in the speech by the Fidesz lead speaker, Mr Manninger. I think it is really important to reduce the costs, but it is possible to achieve a real reduction in the costs by not paying that charge, because we are saving energy emissions, which is clearly achieved by investments in energy efficiency and can be encouraged. The bill itself mainly contains technical amendments. I've read it, and whether it's here in connection with the test purchase or with the use of other fluorinated equipment, it's got eligible proposals for us. We always have a problem with the whole concept or lack of it, the development, the progress we cannot see. Or even if we can see it, it's just very small, very small steps. After six years of government, we'd like to see more. So what I'm saying is that the bill is not good enough for our group to offer support and support, and we will probably express with one abstention that the government has the right to submit such legislative proposals to Parliament in its own power to implement its own policy, and that it is also entitled to try to achieve the small objective it has set itself, but we would like to encourage the government to take much bigger and braver steps in the future. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-09-76	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, please.
u2016-11-09-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The referral and negotiation of this law has been extremely timely in a certain way. The climate negotiations started in Marrakesh two days ago, which is basically the continuation and clarification of last year's Paris Climate Summit. However, we believe that if the government had tabled such a bill, it would have been fortunate to have seen the government's climate policy and climate strategy clearly before. For a year and a half, the government has been in debt by submitting a national climate change strategy. Everyone remembers that, at the end of last spring, the government presented the national climate change strategy, i.e. its second version, but withdrew it in a very short time without any justification, and then later referred to waiting for the Paris climate negotiations last year, and then bringing it back to Parliament with the agreements reached there. Well, we've been waiting for the National Climate Change Strategy to come in front of Parliament ever since. Perhaps they will now say that we will wait for Marrakesh, and then, perhaps, in a year's time, this question of what is going on with the national climate change strategy. Before I go to the draft law, I would also like to say that it would have been very good to know or would have been very lucky if the government had brought it to Parliament, what negotiating mandate it was going to Marrakesh, that is, how the government is now in relation to emission reduction targets, voluntary commitments, and how it takes its position on financing issues. It would have been great if both of them had been on our table before this bill. The LMP considers that the bill in this form would only be suitable for malpractices or damage hidden behind well-sounding goals. And right now, at the beginning, I would like to record that this form of LMP will not support it. Technically, this draft law is a salad law which amends any laws that are not related to each other in a single procedure, hiding behind sound Community goals the government's difficult political intentions and the private interests of certain government groups. For example, the amendment of the electricity law seems to be about regulating the mandatory take-up and premium pricing of electricity produced by renewable energy sources, i.e. an apparently correct target. The details show, however, that the government would like to avoid precisely the clauses that could give a boost to the development of the renewable energy market. [[14.10]] European practice shows that green energy develops spectacularly where price regulation is transparent, predictable and fixed for a long time. Instead, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Authority, which is hand-led by the Prime Minister, would manage pricing through individual rules and occasional tenders, without any regulatory norm or long-term recording, which is the opposite of good practice that has proved to be operational. However, we see that this can be a good breeding ground for corruption in this area as well. In addition, waste incinerators would also be subject to mandatory take-over and premium prices, which are also contrary to common sense and the expectations of sustainability and economy, as it is an incentive to build new waste incinerators, while there is insufficient money to operate existing waste management infrastructure. The bill included the regulation of administrative procedures related to the classification of drinking water quality improvement and sewage projects for EU obligations as a priority for the national economy. The aim is also seemingly welcome, but in reality we know exactly what the priority investment in the practice of the Orbán government means. Nothing more than high-level corruption and the disregard of environmental considerations from City Park to the Bald Dam Park. The proposal also provides a basis for a very strange reduction in the cost of water services. The government would impose a reduction in water prices on the municipalities, which would mean another face for the settlements already bled out, while the political profit would be reaped completely by Fidesz and the government. In addition, this idea is life-threatening, as due to the freezing of water charges, service providers have been failing to renovate and maintain the pipeline systems for years, with further withdrawals leading to the complete destruction of the water service infrastructure due to a temporary political profit, the victory of the 2018 elections by Fidesz, i.e. private interests. The bill abolishes the obligation for the Minister of National Economy to report annually to Parliament on the use of emissions trading revenues. This is the first step of encryption. Here, too, the paragon of the apparent public interest is missing from the measure, since the obvious objective, which is guaranteed by law, would be to ensure that the public administration of climate revenues is fully transparent. Now the government would also eliminate the possibility of that. Instead of supporting the energy efficiency modernisation of family homes, the Orbán Cabinet would be combated by administrative methods rather than the most obvious and cost-effective instrument for increasing energy efficiency, instead of state-supported thermal insulation and window replacement, there would be mandatory energy audits and the use of bureaucrats called energetics within the national energy network. This would only create additional costs and administrative burdens for Hungarian businesses, but it would not substantially help our lousy energy efficiency indicators, the permanent waste of energy. For all these reasons, LMP cannot support the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[In the notary seat, Attila Móring József will be replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]]
u2016-11-09-78	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent Member has applied for a comment, no one has applied for a two-minute speech. Other speeches may follow. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no further contributions were made, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to reflect on the keynotes that have been expressed. [[For signal:]] There you go. Here you go.
u2016-11-09-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's like we're not reading the same law. If I may, I am trying to help you with a loud line of thought as to what this law is about and what these amendments are about. If I have to make a decision, then I will consider four things. One: in the case of fluoroemissions, cancer research is exempted, no certification is required, separate paper. Two, so far, there's been KÁT on the subject of METAR. It's a mandatory take-over system, and everyone's got the support. It's December 31st. To temporarily assist in the deployment of renewable energy, to invest and to go on and on about everything, it is therefore stipulated that, during the transitional period, until the EU has approved MEDAR, which is, by the way, the same as German METAR, I would just like to say that, in this case, this is the case. We are putting in constant legal order between KÁT and METÁR. We support renewable energy. The third thing I would definitely care about is the free national energy network. It's free! It's available to everyone, business, population. I'd like that. We'll help you with energy. We are committed to creating this for the European Union. The fourth, which is most interesting to me, is that the municipalities that are looking for you on a daily basis, so that they can take part in the professional opinion on water and sewer charges for new investments, and that is what this fee is - that is what we are giving you. The municipalities can tell you professionally whether they agree with what the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office is publishing, and that is what this law is about, that we give more opportunities, that we increase local government, that we increase autonomous decision-making powers in the case of municipalities. I'd watch these. Well, let's talk about a few details and go over it. The issue of energy efficiency always comes up for some HUF 100 billion. I would just like to point out that there is a non-refundable and reimbursable application worth more than HUF 100 billion, from which the public can apply. Let me give you a number. We thought that there would be a lot of applicants in the family homes from the Home Gay Program, which was written in non-refundable form for the population. In fact, we made 15 billion forints, reaching 5 billion forints, because many people think that they will not start such a big development or investment. In addition, the form to be recovered is now appearing. The government has written out the form of support for families and young people for home creation, so at the moment it looks like there are a lot of options on the market, anyone can make money, anyone can get free money. The question is, if people don't want it, then who goes to them and tells all the families in person how good it is for him. If people decide in their own power not to take part in this, how long can it be said in this House that because we do not do this and we do not do that? The question has been raised - I have already answered the question of speeding up METAR - concerning CO2 emissions, 1990. Obviously, there's something to compare these indicators to. But if we have to choose between, say, zero CO2 emissions or create jobs, operate an economy and maintain this level, do not increase our emissions, decrease, we have already reached about 40 percent by 2030, if it is acceptable to maintain a functioning GDP-positive economy, and a functioning country, a functioning economy, a functioning tax revenue, a functioning government, if we can accept this level, then I think that if we bring such interests forward in CO2 emissions by 1990, then we are on the right track. Climate policy obviously strengthens all activities that are against it, and economic policy strengthens all activities that are in addition. We need to find harmony between the two, that's what we're trying to do right now. Here is an intermediate thought: in Marrakesh we will be discussing the date from 2020 to 2030. The European Union, a common climate policy, has not yet created its own line of thought and has not yet drawn up the rules for countries. [[14.20]] By 2020, we have committed 20% in energy efficiency, 14.65 per cent in renewable energy, and we have committed 20 per cent in CO2 savings. Now is the next period, we are looking forward to EU reconciliations. We will represent this principle in Marrakesh, and we will continue with this principle. It's a waste issue. I'll give you numbers, corner numbers. The EU wants municipal solid waste to be disposed of below 10 per cent and 50 per cent to be selectively collected and sorted. What happens to 40 percent? There's something to do with it. I'm not taking him to the dump, it's not worth picking out, because I'm not making that much of it. There is only one thing, and I would say not combustion, but thermal recovery, a technology that does not pollute the environment, of which more than ten have been built in Austria, for example, in Germany, for example, a much larger amount, if I remember correctly, of which 15-16 such power plants have been built. NÉS-2 is in progress, we're working on it. There are some issues that we would like to resolve well until we see this clearly and are agreed on, for example, at European Union level, we cannot move forward on this, but we are trying to bring it in as soon as possible. Renewable aids: just to indicate, GINOP 8.4.1., GINOP 8.3.1. has been released, with zero interest rate, for energy improvements such as solar cells. The magnitude is just to indicate that it is more than 100 billion forints or nearly 100 billion forints. On the specific priority of the CFP, the European Commission published a list of renewable energy sources: biomass, biogas, solar power plants and solar panels. The TOP was released, also full of renewable energy. The building energy that is specifically related to the construction and construction of solar systems, called small, zero or salvo accounting, has been published in the CCP, for example for institutions. So in renewable energy, we follow the direction that we hold 14.65 percent. At the moment, the EU's investigation has found that we have about three years' advantage, so this development is constantly taking place in renewable energy, and we are not giving up on it. And the government is spending serious money, partly from its own resources and partly from European Union resources, to solve these problems. The question of wind power always arises. I can refer you to Germany, Scotland, Portugal. The problem with wind power plants is that the extra burden that comes out of this has to be used somewhere, and I am either burdening the population - Germany is thinking about how to reduce the resulting additional burden on the population - or I put it on the companies, but it will increase the cost of the products, which again comes out wrong in economic life. How a country prepares its energy portfolio, how it assembles it - that Poles, for example, think on the basis of coal, that Poland still has significant coal-based power plants; or that Scotland was thinking of wind power plants, and that it didn't really work; that they support the population on Sunday if their electric machines turn on and use this energy - each country decides for itself. One thing is very important to us: we do not want to overload the population, the public, or the businesses, with the resulting costs. Once again, I would like to continue or close my thoughts with what I started: if I had to make a decision, I would vote for this law because of the positive, corrective elements. I stress: the question of cancer, renewable energy, the free energy network and the falling water and sewerage fee. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments will be submitted, and I will inform you that Thursday will be at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on the Defence Sports Federation until closure. The government referral is T/12696. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister for Defence István Simicskó, the author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2016-11-09-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There is an important proposal on the table of Parliament, the aim of which is clear and clear. We want to create an important system, which, in view of the missing elements so far, we want to make up for the lag that we have created and created over the past decades. One thing is certain, this system is about protecting us, protecting our country, protecting our country. We know that safety is a baseline without which there is nothing without which a state cannot be operated, health, education and nothing can be operated, so safety is a baseline. For security, we need to work and do our job constantly. I could have put all this in a way that is nothing more than guaranteeing the protection of our country at the highest possible level. Of course, this has different means and methods. Today, the protection of the country is governed by the Defense Act, on the one hand, by the declaration of Article 1 (1). § (1) that the protection of the country is a national matter. So it can never really be a party political issue, it's always a real, real, real national matter. The protection of the country is important for all Hungarian citizens, and an important obligation can come from this. Of course, the pillars of this national case have been put together, and this is also included in our defence law, by building Hungary's security on three pillars. This consists primarily of the powers and powers of the Hungarian Defence Forces, of course the strength of our alliance, the power of NATO, this is the second pillar, and the third pillar is made up of nothing more than the sacrifice and patriotic commitment of our citizens. These three pillars should, of course, interact with each other. It's all connected and connected with everything, whichever pillar weakens, and where appropriate, the security of the country is weakened, so it's in our interest to strengthen all three pillars. Of course, we also need to increase the effectiveness of this, and this is primarily about strengthening the individual elements and strengthening the cooperation of the various pillars. There is only one noble goal leading us by submitting this proposal, the creation of the Defence Sports Alliance, which is to guarantee the security of Hungary, to live our security at the highest possible level, as this is the condition of our basic life and prosperity. This is important for all ages, but it is important for XXI. We can see the new types of challenges that we are facing, Europe and the world. We can see that today it is no longer merely and not enough to strengthen and develop military capabilities, but more and more to ensure the safety of our hinterland, we must involve the civil sector, civil society as widely as possible, as well as society as a whole, in order to be able to address the current challenges, threats and security risks as effectively as possible. The fact is, allow me to briefly explain what our proposal consists of, but before that, in a larger context, let me say the most important elements of the system here in front of Parliament. In short, we have also started the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces, as we are launching a defence and military development programme, which includes a 10-year development plan from 2016 to 2026 that modernises and develops our entire defence system and our forces, and we are trying to provide adequate and effective responses to current and future challenges. We are committed to our federal system, Hungary is a reliable ally, and the 40 military exercises that take place in international relations each year are all proof that we are constantly strengthening cooperation, and we are looking for our NATO allies to be able to meet the challenges and the required tasks in real-life situations, in real foreign missions, as effectively as possible. Of course, we have reached the third pillar, and this is the sacrifice and commitment of our citizens, which is as important as the other two. As I suggested, he's interacting with the first two, which is the basis for everything. So if our citizens are not equipped with knowledge, an emotional world, a mindset, a heart and, if necessary, abilities that can help the security of our country, the Hungarian Defence Forces and the NATO federal system, then everything will be destroyed, since it can only be on our citizens and only build our security. Without them, it is very difficult to guarantee the safety of Hungary. [[14.30]] Therefore, we consider it important that we link the issues of society, the civil world and defence - we link the Hungarian Defence Force - and look for common denominators, a common base, meeting points, a common path with which our citizens, who wish to participate on a voluntary basis, are given the opportunity to participate, either through the reserve system or obviously in a specific way related to defence sports, on a voluntary basis, and to receive a kind of pre-training of military vocation in different categories, at different levels of commitment. But, of course, the most important thing is that we also use and utilize the power of sport. The intention of establishing the Defence Sports Alliance is a decent intention. We would like to establish the Defence Sports Alliance as a public body, on a public basis, because it serves community interests. What else would be more important for us, who must guarantee security than that it really should be an organisation capable of carrying out a public body's task through the protection of the country? So this is indeed a task for our community, for all of us, and that is why we have thought about how this organization should function on a public body in the future, and that is also to believe that it is very important to strengthen the relationship between society and defence in this way. We would like to make it possible for society to volunteer to protect the country as widely as possible. Let me say a few more words about sports. I've worked as a sports secretary before, and I've been doing sports since I was eight years old, although it obviously doesn't appear to me, I didn't say that to show off here, but one thing I know for sure is that sport has a very important role in our lives; not only because it serves our physical health, but also because it serves our mental health. And by the way, I have learned in the sports world, and I think that all of us who have come close to sports life to some extent, in a way that sport is primarily a pedagogical tool, educational tool and educational method, with which we can raise our children very nicely for good, fair fighting, fair play, healthy competitive spirit, standing up, camaraderie, community responsibility, there are many, many opportunities in sport, so it is an important pedagogical tool, and to bring back and strengthen the importance of sports in defence education, I think, is an important thing. We must take advantage of this opportunity, with this tool. We have taken into account Hungarian experiences, past experiences, historical experiences, and we have taken into account very serious international examples, examples of our NATO allies, France, the United Kingdom, Poland, the Baltic States, the German example, many examples, all international examples where similar types of organisations are operating, and similarly, sport is used in military and defence education and education. By the way, there are particular sports that are connected for historical reasons to the military profession, to military life: for example, pentathlon, fencing, shooting, fighting sports, various technical sports, skydiving and many others, diving, they are all in it, but this does not form a unified system now. We have prepared this material on the basis of historical experiences and international examples. By the way, I have asked General István Kun Szabó, Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is sitting behind our benches, so I welcome him, there is a great deal of work to be done here, and therefore we have come to bring this to Parliament on the basis of various considerations, and I ask my fellow Members to support this effort. There is no such criticism, I do not think it is reasonable, there is no underlying intention in this, but we were guided by a fair and sincere intention. These are old thoughts, indeed, we could say that there is no new under the sun, but there is, because the security situation also justifies it, and also the future help of our young people in career selection, decent standing, believing in themselves that it is worth taking responsibility, taking on community service, through this activity, through joint events, sports competitions, education, defence education, and I think we can raise and develop them in the right direction and shape their thinking. Even in the various sports sectors, there is the running of landscapes, I mentioned the shooting, the training of drivers was also included here, and there was a reference to this and an example before, even in the period before the regime change. One thing is certain: healthy division of labour, when we approach all of this in this respect, on the issue of the protection of the country, I think that when we know that the military service has ceased and we do not want to restore it, we do not want to make it mandatory, we want to offer young people an opportunity based on voluntary responsibility, we want to make them attractive, we want to create appropriate community spaces in order for our young people to come together and spend their time intelligently, so there are a number of good initiatives in this endeavour that I think are useful for our young people. I would add: not only for our young people, as we can see around the world how shooting clubs work, we can see what discipline there is, how orderly it happens, and that discipline and rules are mastered by different age groups involved in the operation of these shooting clubs. It is certain that the Hungarian peculiarities must be taken into account, and I agree with that. In today's press, I have read various critical comments, and I would be happy to respond to them if that is necessary. I would obviously like to ask you to believe that our intentions are good, believe that this international trend, by the way, is responsible thinkers anywhere in the world, who create political decision-makers, methods of this type, organisations, precisely because security has a price, security must be sacrificed, security must be given to people on a voluntary basis, different possibilities for security and opportunities to prepare for it. We want this opportunity, the conditions, and we want to give our young people and the people who want to take part in this opportunity. I would therefore like to ask the parliamentary parties for support, and I would like to ask them to help us with our work. We will, of course, take into account all critical comments with a reasonable and improved intention, and, where appropriate, consider proposals for amendments. I trust that in such a national case, it may be possible to put aside, even in this situation, the party policy aspects, and I hope that they will support our proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties and the independent.]]
u2016-11-09-82	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, the speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Péter Agh, is the speaker. Here.
u2016-11-09-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Man, but soldiers play a particularly important role in the lives of exercise and various sports. Sports prepare you for life, and they also help you to learn how to deal with difficulties, but they also have great community-forming powers. The former Hungarian Defence Association was a national organisation organising sport and leisure activities, which operated between 1948 and 1990. During his story, he changed several times for political reasons and then ceased to exist. The current proposal would revive the Defence Sports Alliance, which would be organically linked to the development of a voluntary reserve system based on reorganising and territorial principles, thus facilitating the motivation of voluntary service. The aim of the bill is to create the organisational form for citizens who are committed to defence on a voluntary basis, through the National Defence Education Programme for regular physical activity, to acquire defence-based knowledge, pre-training, and knowledge of the basis for possible military service and formal training. This is why the Minister of Defence proposes the establishment of a public body called the Defence Sports Federation, which would help achieve these objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, Our Fraction supports the bill so that the Defence Sports Alliance can be established, and thus the principle that we can really contribute to the role of as many people as possible in Hungary as possible who would contribute in some way to the protection of our country and that they are in good condition for all of this. And if we are talking about proper conditions and sport, then allow me to congratulate the Minister at the end of my speech, because this year he has achieved his fifth Master's degree. [[Dr. István Simicskó: Thank you.]] I trust that, following his example, there will be more and more people in Hungary who care about sports. Thank you. [[Dr. István Simicskó: Thank you very much. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-84	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go. [[14.40]]
u2016-11-09-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Basically, the reasoning of the bill in principle, I think it would be acceptable, because the aim, as Minister said here, is to bring young people closer to the issue of defence, to actually become a national matter of defence, and to do so, social engagement must actually work, in this I think we agree. In fact, we also agree that sport has an important role to play in young people's lives, and that sport is very important to live their lives in a healthy way, and that this stressful lifestyle in our rushing world can be somewhat eliminated or compensated. For the first time, I think about the bill, that's all we agree on. There are numerous criticisms about how the government would touch the current state of defence, since we really need to bring young people closer to the Hungarian army. However, it doesn't matter how we do it, and it doesn't matter how much they find their way into the defence later on. We are talking specifically about the establishment of a sports association, which would take the form of a public body, creating countless local organizations. I do not understand this intention either, because the Ministry of Defence is currently in contact with a number of civil society organisations and, moreover, sports organisations, they are in a contract, they are in charge of their activities. So I think that, by the way, helping their work would be a priority in any way. Now, however, we see the intention of creating an incredibly large mammoth system of public bodies, so that the implementation rules are not really clear, and the conflict of interest rules are not. In connection with the implementation, we interpreted the bill as being a member of this sports association, the Defence Sports Federation, any civil society organisation and foundation, so it is not necessarily a restriction that their work is linked to any sport activity. Thus, it is feared that there could be preoccupation with organisations that otherwise do not normally perform sport-related activities. Mr. Minister has specifically emphasised that there is no underlying intention. Basically, the problem is that the bill does not provide any guarantee that such an intention will not be possible in the future. So, if we now accept that there is no such intention at the moment, however, this proposal, as it is now before us, is indeed an opportunity for both political and ideological education in the future, and, as I have mentioned, what kind of mammoth system would be created, which would otherwise receive additional resources from the central budget, I think, in a rather large scale, as we are talking about a huge system, so there is no guarantee of transparency in the use of public funds. I think that these three things, such as party political goals, ideological education, or public money, should not be given, God, if he loses the nature of public money - unfortunately we have already heard this - are three things that are not in any way compatible with the case of defence, nor with the activities of the Hungarian Defence Service, nor, of course, by bringing young people closer to the defence. Unfortunately, in order for these to be eliminated, there is no guarantee in the bill now. The question arises as to whether civil society organisations and sports associations have been consulted in the development of this concept and what external opinions were taken into account in the drafting of the law. The truth is that I consider this bill to be a somewhat additional act, because, as I mentioned, there are still many ways to raise awareness of defence education, of young people in the field of defence. I think that there are extremely good initiatives that have been launched in the past, and that are already being taken care of by the Ministry of Defence, such as the Military Programme, and also by the support of a number of civil society organisations. The Soldier's program can be said to have two or three schools in each county, where it is possible to complete such a course and graduate from it. I think that this circle could be expanded, so there is an opportunity to bring young people closer to the issue of defence. I don't think it's necessary to create such a mammoth organization. In addition, I feel like a substitute act because let's be honest with you that the Hungarian Defence Office is in huge trouble today. It has actually drifted to the limit of its inability to function, and the minimum increase in budgetary resources that we have seen in the past year has not been enough to compensate for depreciation at the moment, but, at most, to perhaps stop further deterioration. I think that, first of all, if we are talking about the use of resources, if we are talking about the fact that anything related to defence can receive extra funding from the central budget, then the priority is not to create a huge system, to create a public body, but to modernise technical equipment, to fill a huge shortage of staff, which, by the way, is now, according to the Chief of Staff's own declaration, to reach 5,500 people and, according to some expert estimates, to be much higher. Thus, uploading would also be a priority, and indeed the creation of working conditions in which soldiers and defence workers see a long-term perspective. This is the only way to ensure the long-term operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces and otherwise its future development. If it is possible for the Ministry of Defence to receive additional resources, then I think that the priorities must be the ones I have first listed, not the creation of such a huge organisation. My fellow Member, Mr Péter Ágh, mentioned how closely the establishment of the Defence Sports Alliance is related to the current reserve concept, which we do not yet know the exact details of, and we know some information about it from the press. I think that this can make the picture even more nuanced, because the development of a reserve system that the Prime Minister said would bring in 20,000 people here for inclusion and recording, I think it is also a substitute act, and it can also distract attention from solving the current daily operational problems. So, if we are assigning resources to anything - and I really want it, and I specifically ask that, in the case of defence, the government at last provide a huge amount of resources - then I think that it can and should be used and used on a large number of points, rather than for the development of such a system. So, as I said, we do not see the implementing regulations, really the concept beyond what is laid down in this legislation, how they are implemented, how we do not see anything exactly, or if we are talking about patriotic education, it would be good to know whether we all mean the same thing. So, I don't know, I would ask Minister whether this is what he was going to do in relation to patriotic education, whether there is a particular concept, whether the wallet has a specific idea of this, or whether it would now be intended to create such a huge system, and then it will somehow develop. The question is how the selection of civil society organisations, foundations and sports associations will be carried out, and it is also known that the operational rules of this sports association will in essence determine a lot of things, such as the weight of which civil society organisation in its general assembly. [[14.50]] I think that if there are no guarantees at the statutory level, this too can be extremely worrying. It is also a question of what will happen to sports associations, organisations and associations, which are currently incorporated into a sports association, so what kind of relationship this has with the sports law, because it is not certain that such organisations can join this Defence Sports Federation, and it is extremely feared that the creation of such a system would make a lot of organisations currently operating impossible, even disincentive to their operation. So, overall, I think that bringing young people closer to the Hungarian Defence Office, the case of defence, has its means at the moment, there are organisations through which this can be done. In schools, as there are many places where basic military knowledge can be taken as a subject, it is obviously possible to expand it in the future, but it is possible to do so now. So I think that, if we are talking about this, it could be done at the moment, without such an organisation, or if we are talking about thinking about major changes, concepts, and the preservation and further development of the operationality of defence, then it is specifically necessary to devote resources to the current system, to the upload of staff, to the predictable career, to the technical means of being, on the one hand, that these obviously have to work for the security of the country, and, of course, because of safe working conditions. So these must be the priorities. Thus, this concept and this bill, as we have seen it, cannot be supported by the MSZP. Thank you.
u2016-11-09-86	Mr Mátyás Firtl, lead speaker of the KDNP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2016-11-09-87	Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, I would limit myself to the law before us, and we will be dealing with at least two laws on the development of the defence today, so I have been familiar with the concept of my fellow Member before me for a long time, but I think that he did not actually comment on the creation of the Defence Sports Alliance, but he only partially touched on it. The bill created for the establishment of the Defence Sports Alliance creates the form of organisation that provides a framework, opportunity and development path for defence sports activities, an educational programme based on active sport, which strengthens patriotic commitment to the protection of the country, building on the voluntary nature of civil society organisations, with a view to strengthening Hungary's national defence capabilities, honourable Member. The formation and activity of the Defence Sports Alliance creates a live and strong link between society and defence, based on the essential civic activity based on the commitment to defence, the narrower and wider community, the country and the nation's service, where appropriate in a preventive defence situation or in an exceptional state, even military service, with the ability and preparedness of those involved. Dear House, The establishment of the Defence Sports Alliance is based on key values that KDNP considers important, such as patriotism, protection of community values, wealth and results, commitment, sacrifice, volunteering, civil courage, national protection. All of this, as fundamental values, is a solid foundation of the future nation building for which the Hungarian government is committed, both between the individual and the community. As a primary tool, sport, namely defence sports, which have military professional significance, is best suited to provide the broadest possible layers with the opportunity to acquire not only sufficient training but also useful defence knowledge and knowledge to achieve the goals through active participation, regular sport activities and the defence education programme built on it. Dear House, With reference to the values already mentioned, it is important to recall, on the one hand, the sports professional opinion that sport is the most suitable scene and instrument of patriotic education, duty, struggle for one another, stand up in difficult struggles, self-sacrifice, transition through difficult living situations. So sport is also a microenvironment of patriotic behavior. All of this applies exponentially to defence sports as defined by law. On the other hand, as the Minister has already touched on it, the civil society organisation is the most appropriate framework and the guarantee of the effectiveness and success that is based on the knowledge, experience and preparedness accumulated in the civil society. In other words, the established professionalism of civil society organisations, the community's cohesion, accompanied by a sense of purpose, and the strong vocation of volunteering, which is precisely the nature and energy reserve of civil society communities. It is well known that these reserves can be expunged with sufficient support. Thirdly, thanks to the current government's sports policy, sport is a national issue in Hungary, and we have also seen that we have achieved growth everywhere in the field of sport, so we can put this to the service of national growth in practice. I am convinced that the growth and development of sport experienced so far can be equally effective in the field of defence and that further success can be achieved. With regard to the Defence Sports Federation, on this mission the Ministry's professional background established the form of the public body, which performs statutory tasks, as well as a coordinating and cooperative role, by fulfilling patriotism, the development of those committed to the cause of national defence, and, of course, by enforcing it in the public service. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, now that we are calling the Defence Sports Alliance back to life, we can indeed serve the goal that Mrs. Congress has also touched on, that young people should indeed be given the direction to raise supplies... - so they are committed to defence at all, as you have mentioned how many people are missing from the defence area, and that this area can be served far away by the Sports Federation, so I ask my fellow Members to support the bill, of course, the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-09-88	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, lead speaker of Jobbik.
u2016-11-09-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, The substance of the proposal has been summarised sufficiently and in sufficient depth, and I would therefore not repeat that. For the basic purpose, Jobbik can agree, we agree. People who are committed to the cause of defence from their patriotic attitude and who also have sports or sports history must be connected to the defence system. For this purpose, which is also included in the justification of the bill, we can fully agree. The bill itself is a frame, a framework that still lacks content, and later it is the government's job to fill it with content. As I mentioned earlier, the idea of the sports association itself is excellent and welcome for our part. We have always been able to imagine the Swiss-type defence arrangement, which is welcome to Hungary, a country this size. In my speech, I would like to focus on one of the sports that are very important for defence, and this is sport shooting and sports shooting associations, and I would also like to express our concerns here. In this legislative context and in addition to the law of arms and the attitude of police authorities, this proposal is of concern, since obtaining a permit for sport is a very long bureaucratic process, nearly one year old, and a huge financial burden for an ordinary citizen. [[15.00]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Today, about 3,000 licensed sports shooters remain, and their number is constantly decreasing. Therefore, we believe and propose that it be advisable to establish an autonomous defence weapon authorisation procedure, so that we can also help this bill. This is no longer covered by the Civil Weapons Act, nor is it the current or planned EU Directive. Under such legislation, under strict control and monitoring, the defence licensee could use weapons that are particularly relevant only from a defence point of view, self-loading rifles, rifles and weapons of war, which are regularized in the Hungarian Army. For its part, it should be stipulated that a certain amount of ammunition should be kept in a storage site, some of which may need to be transferred to the military in the event of mobilization, if relevant. Of course, in order to acquire your own firearm, it is necessary to require very strict and thorough security and range exams, to undergo appropriate military training and to carry out or participate in regular training exercises. The defence licensee, if such a legal concept were to be established and this is the system that we propose, would be obliged to serve as a soldier of the territorial defence forces of the defence in the event of a terrorist situation. With these steps, an enthusiastic volunteer, trained tens of thousands of people, could be created in a few years. The gun authorisation procedure outlined above may also need to be put in place in order for this otherwise good proposal to make real sense. But in any case, I can tell you and I can promise you that the Jobbik faction is constructive in this bill and we will support its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Tibor Bana and Dr. István Simicskó applaud.]]
u2016-11-09-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There is now an opportunity for independent representatives to speak. I give the floor to Congressman Peter Konya. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-09-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, It is precisely 15 o'clock, and it is a great pleasure for me that Minister here is taking part in the debate of the law, and not exactly in the Castle at the Institute of Military History and Museum, where he and I should be present at the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the formation of Magyar Honvéd. Allow me, if I have already mentioned it, to welcome from here my former colleagues from the benches of Parliament and the former colleagues and current colleagues of the Hungarian Honvéd on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the formation of the Hungarian Honvéd. I wish them further success and good work from here. I have to say that it is a pleasure for me that there has been a change in this government cycle at the head of the Ministry of Defence, and finally a minister who considers the issue of defence education, sport and patriotic education to be important. Before the 2014 elections, I was an advocate for the establishment of a military sports association in Hungary, such as the Defence Sports Federation, in the government programme of the opposition. I myself believe that there has been a huge hiatus in this area since the change of regime. During and after the change of regime, MHSZ was terminated as a similar sports association to the objectives set out in the current law, which operated under the name MHSZ prior to the change of regime. This type of void that arose during the period of termination of the MHSZ and the current draft, and the termination of the military service, has resulted in an increasing difficulty in ensuring the replacement of soldiers - and here we are thinking of professional, contractual or professional soldiers - and has created a significant problem in the area, that, while young people felt some need or necessity to pursue sports related to masculinity, the military, this was precisely the breeding ground for the creation of paramilitary organisations operating in Hungary under different conditions, not necessarily controlled. I think that it is also important to establish this alliance for precisely this purpose, so that these uncontrolled paramilitary, such military, such disguised, organizations can be repressed. On this very point, I would like to say that I very much miss the fact that, at the same time as presenting this law, some kind of tightening up does not appear in other laws. From the time that this law has been passed, I would act very seriously and ban every organisation that is otherwise linked to, for example, arms or the use of weapons, I would urge the immediate ban on these organisations at the same time as establishing this alliance, or it is clear that the various paramilitary organisations will be abolished. I would definitely put it in this law, and I would ask you to think about it, so that different shooting clubs and shooting clubs can operate in Hungary only within the framework of this sports association in the future. I know this is gonna get me into things a lot of people are gonna say it's not funny. I, on the other hand, think that during a period of peace and a country living in peace, which is different, even as a result of our NATO membership, there is an umbrella in Hungary, and from here on, those who are involved in weapons, weapons training and training can only operate under state control. As for the bill itself, I think it's a good bill. I would like to point out that the establishment of an organisation specifically aimed at obtaining a licence has been included. I think that if this alliance can make this free, it could be a good replacement for the voluntary reserve service. So anyone who, let's say, takes the volunteer backup service can get a free driver's license. Today, this can be attractive to many young people and a kind of guide to the future. What I would definitely consider important and include in this draft law; if I interpret it correctly, this Defence Sports Association wants to function as a kind of umbrella organization, an umbrella organization that embraces the organisations currently operating, which are related to technical sports or military sports in some way, or that it wants to create itself, as it is in the law that it can create associations of this kind, civil society associations. This would also be good from the point of view, and that is exactly what my amendment will apply, and I will also present an amendment in this regard, and I myself, as a professional soldier, have experienced that we have not had the opportunity and opportunity to pursue a number of technical sports as a professional soldier, which, by the way, is closely linked to the military profession. I've been skydiving myself, and I know what a problem it is for professional personnel, for example, to jump, because they simply don't have the chance, they don't have the chance. But in the same way I could say diving or other technical sports, otherwise it would be absolutely good if those who are interested in this could develop this kind of ability as soldiers, professional soldiers or even contract soldiers. Since these sports are not cheap sports, so the pursuit of them, I would certainly include that those sports clubs... - if I understood correctly, then there will be a cooperation agreement between the Hungarian Defence Sports Association and the Ministry of Defence, which will obviously play a kind of financing and control role. I would already include in the bill that in all sports associations that become members of the Defence Sports Federation, voluntary reserve, contract and professional soldiers will be free of charge. [[15.10]] Or, after these organisations will receive state support through the Ministry of Defence and through the Defence Sports Association, I obviously think that achieving this is not such a big goal, but it would also help to re-enforce and help the current contracted professional soldiers to carry out these sports, if any, after HM will also support it. I can fully support this bill and, in addition to supporting this bill in the vote, I would also like to offer my active assistance - as a former professional soldier and now a Member of Parliament - in the creation of this alliance, in the initial work. If there's a demand for it, I'm very happy to be part of all these jobs. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-09-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Petneházy of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-09-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, It has been a great pleasure to see this bill, and I welcome it with great respect. There have been words about patriotism, education, respect for our traditions, strengthening community values, which, I think, is not from the devil, and I believe that precisely because such an initiative gives them substance, and this may also open up the eyes of those to whom these mere phrases are just, in any case, useful. We can certainly say, however, what Congresswoman Márta Demeter said, the fact that in education for patriotism, in patriotic education, it should be clarified; I do not think that it is necessary to clarify this, I think that it is for each of us to clarify for themselves what she meant by patriotism, what she meant by community values. Perhaps the respected audience will forgive me if I give a personal example of my relationship with patriotism. My relationship with community values has contributed greatly to my - at least that I hope - having a family aspect, for example, to the pentathlon mentioned by the Minister, because one of my ancestors, Imre Petneházy, was a pentathlonist before the war, and, of course, what my relationship with sport has become, and what my relationship to the aforementioned values has become, has been largely determined by this; but forgive me for bringing up such an example. So, as a hundred words, I think that if you were to fill these things in addition to all the other things that have been said to strengthen these values, because we are largely short of them and we are not doing well here today, in our little country, you would already be doing your job. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-11-09-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr István Simicskó, Minister for Defence, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary, your time frame is 30 minutes, please.
u2016-11-09-95	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. I would like to respond, yes, to what has been said. Allow me to continue with my thanks, because I see that in this period of political debate, too, we are able to find some common ground, at least in terms of basic goals, which is the sacred cause of the protection of the country. Thank you very much to all the speakers for agreeing with the basic aim, with the intention, that is what everyone has expressed, and, where appropriate, even in critical remarks, there have been proposals worth considering, which, of course, we will also consider with the experts of the Ministry. Allow me to respond briefly to what has been said, roughly in the order in which the proposals and comments were made. On the part of the MSZP, Márta Demeter agrees with our reasoning in principle and would be acceptable, she also agrees with the important role of social engagement and sport. He said that's it, and that's it, but it's a big deal that at least it's in there, so at least he agrees with the basic goals. I have also considered the critical elements here myself, but obviously we still think about it, and if we see a textual amendment, of course, we will also examine it in detail and try to be flexible. We are also forever and with great faith towards Members of Parliament and parliamentary factions who are constantly dropping criticism at us and making all kinds of comments. By the way, I think that criticism is always good between a certain framework and a border, because it always tries to correct our possible mistakes and weaknesses. Of course, there is also a limit to criticism, which, if we go beyond it, we can fall into the mistake of turning the world into a backhand of everything, and in the end, we only gather people around us - based on the old story - who, by the way, are constantly making the world worse instead of choosing people and people with a view to improving a better world. But I will now note this in parentheses, far be it from me to define the identity and objectives of a serious parliamentary group. Of course, there are factions leaders and party leaders, and I am speaking to them as the Minister of Defence, and as a private person, I am doing this with good intentions. Allow me to briefly run through the critical comments we have heard from the benches of the MSZP. On the one hand, it has been said that there will be a number of civil and sporting organisations in connection with the Defence Sports Alliance, if it is established. Indeed, we are still in contact with a number of civil society organisations and sports organisations today, but I would just like to point out that the Hosos organization, the national sports association that bears the name of the military defender, operates in a sense, around 38 of the number of sports associations who are somehow linked to military life and troops. They regularly organize championships in football and many, many sports competitions, but they do not form an integrated, uniform system. We therefore thought that the Defence Sports Federation, as Péter Kónya said, would indeed be a particular umbrella organization that would unite and organise it on a voluntary basis - although this is what we now refer to as mandatory, but we will consider it, but I think it should be voluntary - because we are living in a world like this, a world of volunteering. But, of course, we must motivate them to make the decision of these types of sports associations to participate in this. So we want a unified and orderly, a kind of integrated system that is transparent and useful for defence, because in many cases they can run in a different direction, which is not certain that they are lucky, because they need to be integrated in this sense, we need to combine forces, and we want to improve a transparent, clear system in this way. That this is a mammoth system, Congresswoman Márta Demeter talked about it. I'm saying it's a coordinated organization, so it's not a mammoth system. I wish we could say that this is a huge organization. But that is not necessarily the goal, but it is an effective organisation that gives young people the opportunity to do so, and that they can do so locally, because local ties are very, very important. In this I would refer to thinking about the principle of territorial protection. This will be a next topic before Parliament, so we also imagine the reserve system to be further developed by territorial protection, because I think the local patriot feeling can be expected, because, yes, man is connected to the territory. We're not floating in outer space, we're being born somewhere, we're living somewhere, and we obviously need some kind of bond in a healthy person's life. We can say this to our homeland, to our home, to our home, to our country, but one thing is certain that we are connected to the territory where we live, and it is important to bring this feeling into this, because if we do something from the heart, it is always more effective and effective than if we are simply doing it out of muscle or mind. It's an opportunity for political ideological education. It is not our intention, so that is not our intention to bring the party policy of KDNP or Fidesz into schools and I do not know where, because such statements have been made. That's not the point, believe me, honestly, it's purely defense education that's supposed to be fair and normal. I would even say, in parentheses, that it is not necessarily, and it is only now, a question of living and exciting militant tendencies, but a healthy education. What is the most important message or the most important item? The first sentence is patriotism. A healthy, decent, normal patriotism, that's what we need to develop in our children, that's what we want to help; help, who, of course, volunteer to do this and volunteer to do it, schools and others. Of course, this is an important thing, this has an international world, where we can see what international examples there are, how they try to achieve it, how it can be done in today's modern, online world, and I don't know how to live in this often impersonal world. [[15.20]] A lot of people say it's a conservative concept. I don't think so. It is important to connect to our country with a sensible and normal program. The SoldierSchool is really trying to do something like this, but it didn't bring the expected results that we'd like to achieve. I think there's a lot more ammunition in this. From the name of the SoldierSchool, it contains a kind of slang, more cheerful, more relaxed wording. I don't want to bring up patous, hypocritical things here, but patriotism is an important thing, and national defense education is also an important thing, of course, I say, not in a direct way, not by force, but honestly, by raising awareness and interest, we want to create this. I think that's a possibility, and we have a real opportunity. Of course, we need prepared teachers, we need prepared people, we need people who really believe, and we need credibility. It's a very big thing, the art of teaching is a huge thing. Of course, we also know that in many cases our children learn more from what we are than from what we say or teach them, so by our actions, we can do more for our children. It's an ancient, old teaching wisdom worth considering. So we don't have ideological intentions, and we don't want to rearrange young people to vote for the I don't know who. That's not the point right now. The aim is to provide them with defence training and to raise their interest, because there is competition. Young people are also affected to such an extent that we must not let them, and we must enter this competition. We should also be able to provide assistance in leading the military or in choosing the military profession and to live in a community. This profession is also a very, very serious, sacred profession, the most sacred and most important to us, because there is no other profession who sacrifices his life for his country, for the protection of his country, if it is necessary and necessary for the protection of the community. You have to give back your authority, prestige to this profession, and all this kind of pre-training, or any social relationship of this type, is all about having young people who think that way, in the spirit of a fair, healthy love of patriotism. Transparency, use of public funds. It's a permanent topic in Europe, in the world, all the time, that's what I see. Believe me, if we were driven by any kind of sanda intent, we wouldn't be looking at the possibility of creating a public body in this way, how to make public money go away. So that's not the intention. I'm open to setting up a transparency committee that constantly employs multi-party experts to see what we're spending money on. These are not huge amounts, but believe me that this is not the motive, for many, however much it may be assumed. That's not what's driving us. It's a substitute act. I understand that expression. I have no intention of showing back or showing eight years, but believe me, Congresswoman, I have been honoured by the voters and representatives of my party to be a Member of Parliament since 1998, but I have already been a hobbyist in politics between 1990-1998, but I am sure that if I look at the state and state of the Hungarian Defence Service, and I deduct all reasonable and reasonable things from the various measures that our predecessors have taken - without hurting and violating anyone - how weapons cultures have been built down, how they have ceased, how barracks have been closed, how and how we have achieved such a shrinking of the Hungarian Defence and the protection of Hungary in this way, it is very difficult to find soldiers and people who come to us fairly - adding that there is competition on the labour market - well, if I consider this to be such action, it is an action. And if, in this sense, we want to build something from historical experience and take the current challenges into account in international examples, then consider this a supplementary act. But I believe that this is an act, an intention that we are trying to strengthen the country's defence. And then I say that, of course, it was also an act of demise, but I consider it a substitute act. So in this conceptual definition, I would just like to draw attention to this, so that we know exactly. Let's call it action. The direction and purpose of our action are not of any importance. I think our direction and our intentions are forward-looking. That is our goal on this issue. I've written myself a comprehensive approach. I think it's important, too. As Peter Konya put it, it seems to me that this is a replacement. It's a hiatus we need to fill, and others can see it. We have tried this, too, but I have always bounced off at times of different governments with my initiatives of this nature. Now this opportunity has finally come. Congresswoman here was talking about all my dreams. We could call this a dream, but I think it's a serious goal. I would like to serve my country with this. When I was given the Defence Minister's mandate, I was given many, many tasks, but as far as I can see the world's processes, let's try to make sure our country is safe. It's this dedication that must guide all of us at a time like this. So that would be our intention, that is our aim with this proposal. I agree with the need for state authority. When we talk about approximation to armed bodies, sports associations, activities where weapons are used, very strict conditions and rules are required. In Hungary, but perhaps elsewhere, we know the neighbor's legal disputes - who whistles his nightingale - and in such a case, weapons can easily be found if there are any at home. So I'd be careful with that. It's a very sensitive and sensitive question of where anyone can keep a gun, ammunition, as well as when, even if they're a member of this organization. We are primarily thinking about a central system divided by county, we would keep weapons there, but the regulation of sports weapons is obviously a different category, because, on the one hand, the procedure is really long and, on the other hand, it is understandable, because it must be subject to strict conditions. We will examine how this can be regulated and resolved more intelligently or intelligently, so that this does not prevent a person from applying. It's a public body form. The public body has a presidency, a general assembly, members. I think it's perfectly normal that it's done in a regulated manner under civil law. There is also all kinds of regulatory elements in the form of public bodies in terms of transparency, as organisations need to be set up to help it; supervisory board, independent auditor and many others are available, annual reporting obligations and compliance with public finance rules is evident. Who could be a member of this Defense Sports Federation, this public body? The one who accepts the ground rules of the Defense Sports Association. So it's not mandatory, but someone who accepts and accepts the obligations that come with it, of course. The questions raised by Congresswoman Márta Demeter may have been profoundly addressed, but if not, I apologize and will try to make up for it in writing at the most. Let me add that, if there is already a level of sports law hearing, and through the sports association, many civil society organisations and sports organisations will be members of the national sports association we are talking about, there is also a system in the world of sport, and there is also a system of sports workshops, and there is a system of national sports professional associations, so there is a system of rules, a system of championships, judicial training and many other things that are under the authority of the national federation, so there is also a systemic approach, and at the highest level there is the Hungarian Olympic Committee, which also collects the world of sport, and there is obviously also a delegation of sports professional associations to the assembly. So a more orderly, transparent system of relations, a coordinated system, a unified system, would serve this very purpose. I also thank Jobbik for agreeing with the basic goal, and they consider the idea to be good. Of course, the content will certainly still be able to be debated about exactly what to fill this with, but I think the aim, the intention, is clear. I've referred to the shooting as to gun law. We're going to look into this. By the way, we're in a very good relationship with the sports club, the national sports club, and we've been discussing how we can work this out so that the shooting clubs can work so as to get close to us and work as efficiently as possible. I would add that through this we can also serve Hungarian sports shooting sport, as we can increase its base, i.e. we can also increase and help the talented supply base. So it's a common interest. We do not withdraw resources from other sports associations because they can be volunteered to contribute, participate, and if, for example, the sports base for fencing, shooting or fighting sports is growing through the Defence Sports Association, it is also good for them. [[15.30]] However, we do not wish to divert resources from them, but we believe that cooperation is justified on a professional basis. Of course, we are shaping this form, and if it is decided in the future, Parliament's mandate, we will make it even more intense. Strict control and monitoring - we also agree on this with regard to the use of weapons and the carrying of weapons, that is correct. I would also like to thank Peter Konya for supporting us and for making these comments. I wouldn't dare expand, it's not our jurisdiction anymore, it's not the power of the Minister of Defense to ban other organisations, so it doesn't involve banning them. But we will consider and propose, where appropriate, or welcome amendments in this respect as well. That they can only operate under state-controlled control, I can accept that. In fact, that's what we've been saying from the beginning. That's right, no party military organization, no paramilitary organization, I don't think it can be in a normal and well-functioning country. This is a state authority, and we need to create the opportunity to have control of the state so that people can experience this need and ability, of course, within the proper, strict framework. We also thank you for your support in obtaining your license. That's what we thought. Now it's not because I used to study at MSB, but it was. It was a big help, you could test for a truck and a lot of other things, which, by the way, is really hiatus. This can, of course, be sensitive to the market that deals with this, but we do not want to take it away from anyone, we want to let everyone live, prosper, give them an opportunity. But even so, if there is such an opportunity, we would like to use it to help our citizens access their driver's license. We will examine the non-member fee and thank you very much for the offer of active assistance. Thank you very much. Finally, I would like to conclude by thanking both Mr President and the Members who are here very much for their contribution, thank you for listening to this and for having said so, and for making positive comments and statements of support. I hope that this will also prevail in the vote. If there are proposals for amendments, they will be examined in substance. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-09-96	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary, are you going to stay on the next item or are you going to switch? 'Cause then I won't start, 'cause the expo is about to start. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXIII on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and the measures that can be implemented in the special legal order follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral T/12694. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-09-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, "The soldier is not to stab, but to be stabbed," wrote István Fekete. And indeed, the rule of law nations maintain forces not against others, but to defend themselves, their country, their nation, their country. The Hungarian language may express this most beautifully, although other beautiful languages also express it, but defence and defence only exist in the Hungarian language as an expression. The defence of the country, the defence of the country, must also be maintained in the legal bases. Therefore, the wallet prepared the law on defence and the Hungarian Defence Agency and the measures that can be implemented in a special legal order, in short Hvt. the amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, for which there are several reasons and on which the defence portfolio was designed as a five-party agreement, but in the end it also held a four-party consultation. The aim of the draft is to implement amendments in line with practical experience, professional needs and, in particular, Hungary's international commitments in the law. Accordingly, the proposal is adapted to the experience of the changed system of tasks of the Hungarian Defence Office. In the context of the recently changed security environment, the National Assembly has already clarified the public-law regime of defence, which has resulted in the expansion of the Hungarian Defence Agency's task system. Experience in dealing with the crisis caused by mass immigration and counter-terrorism measures requires that the legal environment for defence with the amendments contained in the proposal is more effective in achieving the desired objectives. In addition, Hungary, of course, also has significant tasks as a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, which also require further clarification. As you said in the debate on the previous bill, Minister, defence is a national matter and is based on three important pillars: the defence, the allied forces and the patriotic commitment of citizens. Therefore, this proposal complements Hvt. in order to promote voluntary defence preparation as a public service mission in this law, and here the emphasis is, of course, also on the word "volunteer" in the term voluntary defence preparation. In addition, it is a very important part of this bill to establish the legal basis for the compensation of the personnel of the defence by referring the detailed rules to the government. The aim of the draft is therefore essentially to clarify on the basis of practical experience and to regulate new types of responses and tasks on the basis of new types of challenges. Allow me to highlight some of these. First, the regulation of military law enforcement within the legal framework, which clarifies the system of tasks. In view of the development of military police capabilities and in particular the establishment of the Hungarian Military Police Center, the proposal re-regulates these rules on military law enforcement. In addition to the task of law enforcement, but also in view of the changed, extended function of the defence, the range of coercive instruments outside the range of firearms is also extended. As regards coercive instruments, this regulation also ensures consistency with other laws. It is also linked to the extension of the task of the defence that the rules on remedies are being amended, which would include the institution of the right of complaint, which could be considered by the authorities, in addition to the control of the military prosecutors, with regard to the application of measures and coercive instruments. The reason for this is that, in contrast to the defence legislation in recent years, the role of defence has recently been extended and, therefore, it is justified that the assessment of complaints should be swift and effective, and that the regulation should be guaranteed in accordance with the ideal of the rule of law. The proposal contains a regulation concerning the subordination of the command or command of the allied international or other national armed forces of military organisations and individual soldiers, which is justified by the commitments made and decisions taken by their allies, in particular at NATO summits in Wales and Warsaw. The Hvt. Amendment 3 contains rules on clarification and amendment of the interpretation provisions, in particular with regard to international commitments, taking into account the definition of team movements involving border crossing and the area of operation. The government is also presenting not only the clarification amendments that have been listed to date, but also those that are adapted to life, including two requests that have long been missed and demanded by the majority of my fellow Members. [[15.40]] One of the draft laws on the Statue of the Defence Sports Alliance, as well as the possibility of voluntary pre-training, discussed in the previous item, complements Hvt. in order to promote voluntary defence preparation as a public task and thus underpins and facilitates the formation of the Defence Sports Association as a public body. In addition, the proposal also provides the legal basis for compensation for defence personnel. Under the Civil Code, compensation for damage caused by a lawful nature may be imposed by law. I would like to emphasise here that this is not about liability compensation, it is about compensation. This expression, this provision, expresses the fundamental point that the legality of the injury alone does not give rise to an indemnification right, which requires an explicit legal provision in addition to the absence of unlawfulness. It is not a secret goal for the government, it is not a secret goal for the Ministry of Defence to help the military personnel who have been members of the Honvéd Health Fund and have suffered damage in the past period. So now, at this moment, in the context of a special star formation, the wishes of the government and the parties of government and the opposition are the same, together we can solve this task that lies before us. Dear Parliament, "The soldier is not to stab, but to be stabbed," I said at the beginning of the expo. Hungary must help and provide the Hungarian Defence Forces with all its power so that the Hungarian Defence Forces can always fulfil their mission and the basic purpose of their oath to protect Hungary's security. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Péter Agh. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-09-99	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, The aim of the bill is to create a better regulatory environment for the experience of the law on defence and the Hungarian Defence and the practical application of the law on measures that can be implemented in special legal order, as well as for our federal and international military commitments. In line with the experience of the changed mission system of defence, it aims to promote the provision of tasks, the ability-building efforts and organisational changes associated with the change of the task system. In the context of the changed security environment, the Parliament has changed the public policy of defence on several points over the past period, resulting in the expansion of the Hungarian Defence Agency's task system. Experience in dealing with the crisis caused by mass immigration and counter-terrorism measures makes it necessary to make the legal environment for defence more effective with the amendments contained in the proposal. In addition, Hungary has significant tasks as a member of NATO, which require further clarification. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, the Fidesz faction supported the proposal before us, and let me at the same time take the opportunity to thank you for the preparation that the wallet has done, because I believe that there has indeed been a dialogue that has been taking place over the past period that has wanted to integrate all the ideas that have been formulated, whether from a government or from a opposition side. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-09-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-09-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, As you said, there is an amendment to the Hungarian Defence Act at present before the House, and both the crisis caused by mass immigration, as well as the measures and legislative amendments relating to the terrorist threat voted by the majority of the parties to the Fundamental Law, are being carried out in this way in the Hungarian Defence Act. In view of the fact that the establishment of this special legal order situation, the establishment of a new qualified period and the incorporation of it into the Fundamental Law in this form, as has been done, has not been supported by the MSZP fraction, we are maintaining this. However, we cannot go without saying that we had a proposal of our own with the LMP fraction, also in connection with the amendment of the basic law, where, otherwise, with the aim of cooperating with the police or cooperating in the prevention of terrorist acts, where appropriate, in crisis management due to such circumstances, I think that it would have been fully operational and acceptable for us as well. Of course, it is very strict both in terms of space and spatial, temporal use and involvement. These are the guarantees which, by not being supported by the majority, will not be included in the Fundamental Law, but in the form that you have set out. So what we still do not support, however, is that there are still no guarantees as to who, when, how to tell us what constitutes such an emergency. The Secretary of State also mentioned military law enforcement tasks. At the moment, too, this proposal is exemplary in defining the tasks of military law enforcement, and I think it remains worrying that the extension of responsibilities can otherwise be defined in lower legislation. So at the moment, if there is such an intention, then we are not necessarily aware of it, the Parliament may not be able to verify it. I think that if this is used responsibly, and I think that this will be, that this will be included in the list of things that have already existed and we have seen, then I think that this could be a good solution, because everything that is not a means to kill human life, but an inhibited tool, is, I think, a good solution. Mr Secretary of State mentioned the area on which I would also have a specific question, in addition to the fact that you do not think about a more precise definition of military law enforcement functions here, and this is the concept of an area of operation. It is not entirely understandable why, as proposed, I would like to see in the future that the place of planning in the operational plan, and therefore in the future, is an area of operation. If you can give me any answers, I am very pleased that I do not think that there is reason to declare planning sites an operational area. These areas are currently protected areas, some of which are several times because of our being NATO alliances. So you can't really see the reason why they can be declared an operational area. I just hope it is not possible to introduce a variety of extra measures on occasion. Therefore, there are also specific questions about this amendment to the Defence Act. I could say that it is positive in any way - which you mentioned, Mr Secretary - to compensate former members of the Honvéd Health Fund. At last, the government may see some intention or involvement in solving this situation. We know that nearly 1.8 billion forints disappeared to more than 27,000 soldiers, defense workers, law enforcement and national security workers. [[15.50]] And we also know that in the past year and a half, steps have been taken to resolve the situation, but it is worth knowing that at the beginning of summer, the Prime Minister's Office started to pay the compensation, so hopefully the workers there have already received all these lost amounts, which were lost without their own fault, because we know that it was the failure of Buda-Cash that took away these savings that had otherwise been saved for health preservation. But in addition to the fact that here in a few lines, as you mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, how a legal formula is included in this bill, which means that it may be intended to compensate, the question arises as to the guarantee that this compensation will take place, and the question arises as to how the provision of resources will otherwise be provided, as it may be a framework text that does not yet provide either the resources or the payment of this amount by the deadline, by any deadline. For this reason, the MSZP fraction will submit a decision proposal once again - we have already done several times with regard to compensation - where, by the way, we ask the aid to be paid by both the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Defence at the latest at the beginning of next year, by the end of the first month. In any case, the intention of the Ministry of Defence itself is welcome, but I also draw attention to the fact that the implementation of this is a matter of political will, and I would add that so far it would not have been a legal obstacle to compensation, since we clearly saw that this payment was made by the Information Office and that there was no need for any legal form. So the truth is, I see the intention, it's very good that after a year and a half we have the intention, but we still don't see the guarantee for the payment. Therefore, the proposal for a resolution that will be tabled in this regard, I think that the majority of the government can support it in any way, if that intention, which is now in the bill, is indeed so. So if the Secretary of State answers questions relating to the military police centre or the extension or precise definition of their duties and the operational area, I thank you. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-09-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Mátyás Firtl. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-09-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The bill is called for by the changed security environment that has arisen with the crisis caused by mass immigration and the increased emergence of a terrorist threat, which is required by the fulfilment of a changed and changing system of tasks in its process, by ensuring that it is implemented without obstacles, and by effective and operational treatment. It is well known to this House that, in order to restore the Hungarian legal order threatened by migration and to protect its citizens, one of the three systems of protection applied effectively by the government so far is legislation in addition to the physical and armed protection system. Under the legislation, we have tightened up our legislation to date, and we have created new protection laws. In order to ensure a rapid and effective solution, we have made several legislative amendments, such as the one we are discussing now, which are more effective, in order to help the Hungarian defence and the Hungarian defence to fulfil their specific tasks, and which need to be protected by increasing terrorist threats to protect Hungarian citizens. Dear House, Creating an adequate legal environment for defence engagement in the management of the crisis caused by mass immigration and effective action against the associated increasing terrorist threat, as well as ensuring the conditions for effective implementation of tasks, is part of the responsibility of the government. On the other hand, this creates the basic conditions for the task of defence, in which the requirements of the rule of law must be in line with the federal obligation, and the necessary capacity development methods and organisational adjustments must also be carried out in accordance with them. In the context of legislative amendments or works, it is also necessary to emphasise that, in addition to ensuring effective protection and security, in addition to fulfilling the obligation, the effectiveness of all of this - i.e. also the legislative work - contributes greatly to the stability, assessment and experience of our defences so far, for which I would like to thank you all from the Hungarian Parliament. In addition to adapting to the practical experience so far and refining, the necessary amendments must, of course, be made in relation to Hungary's federal and international military commitments and adapted to their specificities, as soon as they provide the most appropriate legal environment. Furthermore, the draft legislation concerns voluntary participation in defence preparedness and legislation on various atypical tasks. The bill also includes a further clarification and clarification of the law in relation to Hungary's membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, ensuring full fulfilment of its commitments. According to what they said, given that T/12694. I recommend the bill to be adopted with respect on behalf of the KDNP fraction, in order to ensure the effective and effective functioning of the Hungarian defence and defence, i.e. the security of the country. Together with the Honourable House, we should thank Minister, Secretary of State and the Ministry of Defence for creating the legal opportunity under Rule 2. Section 2 in which, in the context of its relationship with the national defence, the staff created the possibility of compensation. I feel, as has been said, that we really owe this to the staff of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which in this case has been damaged. Dear House, Thank you for your attention, and I ask you once again to support the bill from all of you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Thank you.
u2016-11-09-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Adam Mirkóczki. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-09-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to begin by thanking you for the fact that last week in advance there was a five-party agreement, which eventually became a four-party agreement. Of course, this showed us that there was no ulterior motive, no tricks in the background. At the time, I promised that we would, of course, study the proposal thoroughly, paying attention to previous negative experiences not necessarily concerning the Ministry of Defence, I would like to stress that there are no hidden tricks that are not related, where appropriate, to the purpose of the proposal. I can now say that we have reviewed it, and, as you said, Minister, it is clear to us that the purpose of the proposal is that of the explanatory statement, we have not found any objectionable or insufferable part of it that would give us a reason not to support this proposal where appropriate. And that, even if it is late... - late in the sense that we believe that the government, as I said at the five-party settlement, made a mistake when the victims of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund were not settled from an extraordinary fund of the central budget reserved for such cases, but I think it is fair and fair that, if later, in time, the Ministry of Defence has slipped from its own budget, from its own intent and strength, as far as it can, completely and through every individual who works in defence, compensates these families, these affected ones. It's really totally okay, and it's to be fully supported. So I can cut short what I have to say, because I can only repeat what I have already said in part and read in part the various sections of the bill, which we agree with. What I can tell you is that the Jobbik will support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the Right Party and the Government.]] [[16.00]]
u2016-11-09-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We are now going to have a speech by Mr Péter Kónya, who has been registered in advance in writing. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-09-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I'll start with the compensation of the members of the Honvéd Health Fund, and I think it's finally going to look like it's going to come to a rest. I trust that it is indeed the intention of the legislator to completely compensate the members of the Hungarian Defence Office, or of the Hungarian Defence Fund, or of the Hungarian Defence Fund, or of the Hungarian Defence Fund. Obviously, it would have been better and more reassuring to see, at the same time as presenting the bill, the draft government decree, which otherwise refers to this, as the draft law states that this compensation is applicable to the cases otherwise provided for in the government decree. I think it would have reassured the staff in advance if we had seen such a draft regulation, in which they would otherwise state the deadline and how they intend to compensate the members and former members of the Honvéd Health Fund, since there is no longer a Honvéd Health Fund, as we know. Article 1 I can also welcome the addition of the acquisition of the necessary knowledge within the framework of defence education and its conditions, but if we are discussing the draft law on the Defence Sports Federation at the same time, I would recommend that the Defence Sports Federation be specifically listed in this draft law, as there is no obstacle to it, we will practically adopt the two draft laws at the same time. It would be appropriate to name the sports association itself in this law, please consider this. I am not going to put forward an amendment to this, but I think it is in the interest of the wallet to consider this and make it difficult. I'm sure I can support it myself, but I think it's the other factions that supported the creation of the sports association itself. I think it is an important step forward, and it was necessary to establish the responsibilities of the Military Police, as this was lacking in the Defense Act. It is a good thing that this was clarified in the Defense Act, that the tasks were specifically defined in points. I think that the addition to coercive instruments is absolutely realistic, and if there are modern tools that can be used, then, of course, they must be used, obviously with the right legal framework and restrictions. What I would like to mention - and obviously something of a political nature, what I am saying now, but this debate has also been held on the amendment of the Fundamental Law - I think that if there is normal confidence in the functioning of Parliament and of a government at all, then I am not sure that I would raise this, but, unfortunately, at the moment, there is a political situation in Hungary where there is not necessarily complete confidence in such matters, while I think that the matter of defence and security of the country cannot be a party policy issue. However, the deployment of the Hungarian Defence Forces during a transitional period can be regarded as a concern in the current political situation, and this is the transitional period when the situation of the terrorist threat is being announced, and the Parliament has not yet decided, the period between these two envisages a deep confidence situation with which, I believe, no government can do any abuse. If you do that, you're making a huge mistake. Unfortunately, this law has the possibility of using the Hungarian Defence Forces for political purposes, political reasons, for what is said. I very much hope that this will never happen in the coming Hungarian historical period, but the law can allow this possibility to be modified both by the amendment of the Constitution and by the current amendment of the Defence Act. I am not saying that this will be done by a government, and I am very confident that no government will ever abuse this opportunity. I also know that the immediate deployment of the Hungarian Defence Forces may be justified professionally, not waiting for the Parliament to decide on this, it is your responsibility, your political responsibility, that this opportunity will never be abused. That's about all I wanted to say. Otherwise, it contains absolutely technical amendments which, I think, are necessary as time progresses and because of experience and much more, so this draft law is basically eligible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking you if anyone else would like to speak in this debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Tamás Vargha's mark:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2016-11-09-109	Yes, thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At the beginning of her speech, the Congresswoman went back to an earlier debate that we had already held here in the House, the Fundamental Law was amended, as this House voted, and gave the Hungarian Defence Forces permissions that we all know the Hungarian Defence Forces have received. I think that this passage through this law is right and proper, because there would have been no consistency between the Fundamental Law and the Hvt. Between the two of us, so we had a job to do. According to this, we could not, of course, pass it through, according to the way this fundamental law amendment was accepted by this House. With regard to the task of military police and their listing, Congresswoman, I can say that, in my best memory, the list of functions in the amendment is much more accurate and much more detailed, and that certain tasks, parts of the law refer to a lower level of legislation than is the case in the case of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund, that is, I think, natural, because the most common law and the most common law defining our lives is the Fundamental Law; then the laws settle our lives more accurately, but still in general, and as we move towards individual and individual points, we come to lower laws. And I agree with Mr Péter Kónya: trust is a very important thing. The Parliament makes the laws, but it is the responsibility of the elected government to see how lower levels of government regulations and government decisions will be built up and how the government uses the statutory powers. Of course, you intend to live with it and not abuse it, even if it is possible for you to read from the text of the law that it is possible to abuse it, a responsible government never does that, because at the same time it proclaims its own death sentence. So this is a question of trust here and in questions about the Honvéd Health Fund. We've been thinking a lot about how we can work this out. In the case of the Information Office, it was a different situation, as far as I know. In our case, there is no liability for the Ministry of Defence, because we did only one thing: not only to the Honvéd Health Fund, but that if the member of the staff asked for it, we transferred the HUF 3 000 with which the wallet contributed, so it was his free choice. [[Peter Konya intervenes.]] [[Peter Konya intervenes.]] , which health institution it belongs to, there was no and there was no regulator that required anyone to join the Honvéd Health Fund. As far as I know, it was different with the Information Office. That is why this solution has been found, which, in a law, provides the legal basis for the detailed regulation of this in the Government Decree, and it is also a matter of trust that we will do so by ensuring that it will, of course, be fair and appropriate for everyone. (Peter Konya interrupts.) The congresswoman also asked about the source. Of course, you'll have the resources, you'll have the budget of the wallet. [[16.10]] The question of the operational area: therefore, there is a more precise definition in the proposal. So far, the law has spoken only from a geographical area not limited to one, and it is now speaking from the geographical area defined and designated in the operational plan, which can be closely monitored, since we are talking about a geographical area exactly drawn up in a plan. The location of the operational planning and the command may not be the same location as the area specified in the operational plan. Thank you very much for your support. During the four-party consultation from the five-party group, Mr President, you also suggested that the compensation of the Honvéd Health Fund could have been resolved from a very simple basis. It lacked not the money and not the intention, but the precise legal basis for this. We are talking about public money, we are talking about the money of all of Hungary's communities, and we wanted this to be compensation in all respects, supported by sound legal arguments and solutions, not intention and not compassion. Just as we have been asked many times by a woman who is a Member of Parliament, we did not feel that she was doing this because she was attacking the government in any way, but because she felt that it was our moral duty to do this, and we felt that we shared our intentions in this. So thank you very much for your support and I ask this House to adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-09-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments on Thursday, that is to say by 16 a.m. tomorrow. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend individual laws in relation to defence issues until closure. The government referral T/12695. It is available to all on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, in a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-09-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, This proposal is also commonly referred to as the salad law in Parliament, and I would prefer to use another indication on the proposal, namely the word care, because it is rather a package of provisions. Article XX of the Fundamental Law In general, Article XIX states that everyone has the right to physical and mental health. More specifically, Hungary is seeking to provide social security to all citizens, and in the event of disability, disability, widowhood, orphanage, all Hungarian citizens are entitled to statutory support, and this social security is implemented by the institutions of Hungary and by legislation. The primary objective of the proposal before us is to express and deepen care. The bill amending individual laws on defence issues contains amendments to a number of laws, some of the main issues being allowed to be highlighted. The first major area is the amendment of the law on war care, with the aim of reviewing war care benefits, increasing regular cash benefits and nursing allowance once from 2018 onwards, and what is very important is that it has been regularly indexed since the following years. War care has a long-standing tradition based on the state's social care and moral duty. We would like to continue this tradition and continue it in 2015, when, compared to the fairly and correctly broadening change in the scope of entitlement to claim, we are not now increasing the scope of entitlement to claim and we are not introducing a new type of benefit, but the proposal raises the existing benefits by between 25 and 100 percent, and also settles some red tape amendments. The other large area is the law on the status of soldiers. The tragic event that took place in the summer, which affected the bombers of the Hungarian Defence Forces, highlighted that we can and can do much more in the area of grace and eternal care. The purpose of this amendment is essentially to speed up the procedure for damages in the care of the relatives of the deceased in the Hungarian Defence Office, to waive certain defence claims, to modify the regulation of the supplementary support for orphans, to settle the rules of posthumous promotion at a legal level, and to introduce amendments and clarifications that are necessary on the basis of the experience of the application of the law. This includes this part of the amendment to the law. The third area is the regulation of mixed provisions for defence purposes, the amendment of the law on the status of civil servants, supplementing the calculation of the salary on which civil servants of the defence staff receive their Jubilee Rewards with the protection sector allowance, thereby increasing their allocation. Similar is the amendment to the Law on Civil Service Officers, which contains clarification regarding the calculation of the period for granting the Jubilee Reward. It is part of the proposal that, for the duration of the special legal order, the Minister for Defence, in order to safeguard the defence function of the airports designated for use, should have the right of agreement with regard to airports established for sport purposes. Regardless of the question of grace, the proposal complements Hvt. in relation to the administrative matters of the bodies acting at second instance and includes provisions other than general in the context of official procedures relating to dangerous military objects. This bill, this proposal, can therefore also be called the government's care package. Marcus Tullius Cicero's idea let me quote from the state:, We believe it will lead us to conspire with others for the purpose of our lives. This alliance is the state as a whole. In fact, the aim of the state is to simplify and settle the life of the community, and according to the Fundamental Law, Hungary seeks to ensure social security for all its citizens, in the case of invalidity, disability, widowhood, orphanage, all Hungarian citizens are entitled to statutory support. Citizens have a legitimate expectation that the state of their tax will guarantee their security, guarantee Hungary's external security, guarantee our internal security and social security. This proposal serves this basic public task, which is also the objective, and I therefore ask this House to accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Péter Agh. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-09-113	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr State Secretary, in his speech to the author, explained in detail the amendments to be introduced by the bill, so I would not go into detail. What I would like to highlight is this. Complementing the Jubilee Prize of civil servants in the army and increasing the rates of war care, as well as the care of the relatives of the deceased in the Hungarian Army, and the provisions of the bill in this direction are clearly positive provisions that strengthen the appreciation of the staff; provision, as the Secretary of State said at the beginning of the proposal. In addition, the purpose of the amendment of the law on the settlement of the property situation of certain sports property is to safeguard the defence function of airports designated for the purpose of economic, material service and subject to notification for the purposes of the special legal order. [[16.20]] The further provisions of the bill are justified by practical experience, as we have heard in the presentation of the Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of this, our group supports the proposal that has been made, and we trust that every faction will support this in the vote, so that we can do the problems and laws that need to be amended before us. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-09-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, By the way, I think, yes, there is a salad law before us, that is a fact, but it is very important that we are actually talking about amendments in the law on the status of soldiers, which I think is important, both for reasons of mercy and for a sign of appreciation and for the responsibility that we feel, that we know what dangerous jobs those in the Hungarian Defence Office are doing, and we know that if there is a tragedy there, as the Hortobágy case has unfortunately highlighted, how important it is to stand up for the relatives of the deceased and to help them by all means. In this way, the amendment to regulate damages proceedings, waivers of claims, additional support for orphans, and the possibility of posthumous promotion, I think, is indeed a positive one, is unquestionable. I would also like to highlight, as a positive point, the increase in benefits covered by the Law on War Care. This is the fact that it is happening, it is also a very good thing, but I would like to point out here that this is basically necessary because the retirement pension minimum has not been increased for a very long time, so we are still talking about an extremely low amount of HUF 28 500. So I think that raising the minimum rate of old-age pension would be the first thing to do, which actually provides a solution not only for beneficiaries covered by this law, but obviously for a much wider one. So, in addition to giving positive multipliers and percentages to stakeholders here, this amendment of the law, and a lot of people who are not affected in this respect, are left out. So obviously a complex thinking is needed in this, and quite simply the minimum amount of the old-age pension, this 28 500 HUF, should now be raised and thought about immediately. In addition to these positive points, there are a lot of questions about the bill, such as what the Secretary of State said, about making the legislation on voluntary reserveers so to speak more flexible, and it can be clearly concluded, and mentioned, that this is closely linked to the new reserve system currently planned for its establishment, which is organised on a territorial basis, mentioned by the government. So here, let's talk about this system for a few words, because here the Ministry of Defence has already given us a number, this 197 district, where they plan to set up everywhere, as far as I know, a company as a reserve system, but the Prime Minister mentioned a number of 20,000. It is quite clear that there is, of course, a need for a reserve system, a voluntary reserve system. However, a functioning force has or may have a reserve system. So as long as we are talking about a crazy shortage of numbers, while there is a shortage of 5500 to up to 8,000 people, I think that uploading this should be a priority, and certainly not the establishment of a system where, by the way, some minimal training, which is really a very short period of time, is trying to involve a lot of people in the system, so to speak, so that there is no way that 20,000 more people can replace a properly functioning professional force, even twice as much. The Hungarian Defence Agency has an authorised number of 29 700, so the first step is to upload this number, since XXI. In any case, a professional force can meet the challenges of the 20th century, not an incredibly large-scale reserve system that could, by the way, distract resources from the right developments and, so to speak, with such a rapid story, could not represent real defence capabilities. So this is also what the change here draws our attention to. In addition, there is a requirement in the bill that disciplinary action may be suspended if the soldier concerned participates in a task order due to the crisis caused by mass immigration. I think that this amendment also highlights the incredibly large shortage of staff in the Hungarian Defence Office, because I think that this measure is the best way to justify it, so it would obviously be necessary to solve the original problem. There is a question about the use of real estate, and how and what real estate the Hungarian Defence Office can use, in what way or as a rental; I would like to ask why this is specifically named in this bill. It is also very strange, and this proposal is 24. It states that a specific administrative procedural settlement has been drawn up pursuant to which the body assessing an appeal against a first instance decision by the Minister of Defence must be requested and taken into account when deciding on the Minister's opinion. Therefore, the second instance authority must take into account the opinion of the first instance authority when deciding. I think that this could consume up to the remainder of the state-of-law operation of the public administration if such proposals were made. Overall, there are positives in the proposal, but there are also concrete questions in which I would like to ask the Secretary of State to try to answer. Thank you.
u2016-11-09-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Mátyás Firtl. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-09-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As we have repeatedly explained in Parliament's debates on defence issues, we are very much in agreement with the government's efforts to improve, strengthen the Hungarian Defence Forces, and to appreciate the soldiers who have demonstrated in the recent crisis that they are being honoured, serving their country with honor. The strengthening of defence, defence and the appreciation of those who chose military careers have been served by a number of concrete government decisions and measures that the portfolio intends to continue. T/12695. The amendment of certain laws in relation to defence issues is likewise supported by the attempt to strengthen defence by amending several laws. On the one hand, with a view to ensuring a more effective and effective performance of public tasks in the field of military, military and defence in general, by clarifying practical issues in the application of law. Dear House, Before the National Assembly, the circumstances that have placed a particularly difficult task in defence are known. Over a million migrants have come to Europe in the last year, with 400 thousand migrations across Hungary, and this has been a difficult task for Hungary and Europe as well. [[16.30]] While the security system was not working properly in several countries and at EU level, Hungarian security agencies, Hungarian soldiers and police officers were exemplary. I think that every time, as I do now, when the matter of defence is on the agenda in Parliament, we should thank the Hungarian Army, the soldiers, the police, for which the Hungarian security system worked well in the migration crisis. Dear House, With regard to nine laws, the new package of legislative amendments aimed at respecting the commitment of defence concerns regulates, inter alia, the amendment to reward civil servants, the systematic settlement of war care benefits and the clarification of practical issues, the settlement and clarification of the jubilee reward of public service officials, and, at the statutory level, settle several issues concerning the care of the relatives of the deceased in the Hungarian Defence Office, together with the necessary clarifications. At the same time, the amendment before us proposes the technical deregulation of several laws. The special legal order provides sufficient room for manoeuvre and an opportunity to resolve the situation of certain sports facilities suitable for defence functions in order to increase security, as does the special legal order, which also allows for a number of forms of personal care related to civil servants and public service relations, such as the issue of waiver of defence claims, in the case of families tried by life. Dear House, The Hungarian state is a stable point on the continent in the midst of the migration that has tried Europe, and the defence has a fundamental role to play in this. Defence has always been about the protection of our families, communities, Hungarian people, the safety of Hungary, and we must do everything we can with the instrument of legislation. We must ensure the security of our country and our citizens, in new circumstances, in the face of new security challenges, including migration and the threat of terrorism. In order to carry out this task, we consider the amendments that are now on the agenda to be supported because of what has been said, and I therefore recommend the bill to this House for adoption on behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-09-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gergely Kulcsár. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-09-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill amends several laws in connection with Jubilee Rewards, the care of war care workers, and certain legal and compensation issues. We consider the amendment to be positive, and this proposal is a great help for the war-caregivers to a large extent. As regards the amendment of the Public Employee Act, there is a more favourable condition for calculating the Jubilee Prize in the proposal, according to which the allowance should also be included in the amount of the basic salary under the relevant Ministerial Regulation. This clearly improves the situation of those affected, which is why we support this change. Speaking of amendments to the Law on War Care: in the future, war care will come on the basis of our earlier comments to those who could not seek care for political reasons, and therefore could not prove that death was inherent in the ministry. With regard to the previous bill on war care, we have already proposed to increase contributions and allowances and to increase the benefits regularly. We are pleased to see that our proposals at that time have now been incorporated into this law. Thus, according to a detailed list, the monthly rate of the benefits is about: will increase by the quarter in all supply categories, the allowances will be doubled by the proposal, and the combat chemical benefit will slightly increase. The law introduces that benefits should be regularly increased, as I mentioned this year, subject to the pension amounts each year. The amount of the funeral contribution increases by two and a half times compared to the current one. Invalidity entitlement is also opened to devices to restore or improve the life and working capacity of the invalid. They're all supported by the Jobbik faction. The amendment to the Sports Property Act concerns the extension of the Minister's right of consent in relation to the use, renewal and disposal of sports airports. We also consider this passage important, and we agree with it. Among the new provisions of the Defence Act, I would like to point out that, in exceptional cases, the placement and performance of the duties of the defence organisations will be temporarily ensured on the basis of other property-use relationships, and that properties managed by other ministries are also subject to regulation. We find this to be an extremely important and appropriate amendment. We also consider it good to define the lower bounds of the contractual relationship, it is a clear guarantee for the army, and it also prevents too much fluctuations. However, we do not consider the conduction, i.e. the temporary rank, to be good, morally impairing the authority of the rank, but we are aware that this is a NATO product, so it cannot be avoided. It is subject to ministerial powers in relation to working time regulation, quite rightly. It's much better adapted to military duties. At the same time, there should be a minimum regulation here in order to avoid abuses in both directions. Overall, the proposal will be supported by the Jobbik fraction, on the one hand because we see our previous proposals in it, and on the other hand, we regard the vast majority of other amendments as useful and forward-looking. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-09-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have a speech from Congressman Péter Kónya. Here you go, Congressman. Mr. Congressman has pre-registered in writing. Here you go.
u2016-11-09-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of this salad law, it was good to hear from my fellow pro-government Members the words about how well the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces are doing to defend their country, how well they are doing in international missions, where appropriate, and how these soldiers deserve all the respect they deserve. You know, I was a comrade, I was a comrade, I was a sir soldier, I served as a soldier of the Warsaw Treaty Member State, I served in a Hungarian army that was independent, was not a member of any international treaty, and then I was also a NATO soldier. I think that the Hungarian soldiers have honoured and served their country at all times, regardless of the period in which we served. That is why I think that in terms of the future, because we cannot reverse the wheel of the past, but for me it is the period of 2010 and the end of 2010 and the beginning of 2011 that is still offensive to this day, when I had to listen as an active professional soldier to the words that left the mouths of pro-government representatives in this Parliament horseshoe, whether for soldiers, policemen, firemen or prison guards, generally for professional and retired colleagues in armed and police bodies. I think that the issue of defence and security can never be a party political issue, and for this very reason, in terms of the future, I am very confident that, after a change of government, the forces re-government will not point back at how soldiers or policemen served their country if they have done their job with honor. I hope that these current pro-government fellow Members will reflect on the future. What I would like to say about this salad law: I think that yes, care is important, and this package of laws contains a number of elements that are forward-looking. At the same time, if we think about it, let us have a vision, and I know that we can stretch out until our blanket reaches, but this amendment of the law is far from enough. Yet I must say that it is a step forward, and it is important to support every small step. I also welcome the government's intention to improve the various provisions, whether for active stock or for relatives, or for war orphans and war widows. [[16.40]] I definitely think this package is positive, not enough, but I definitely think that every step that points in and takes these things in the direction that we continue to value people, whether financially or morally, who are engaged in the armed service of their country, should be supported. I would particularly like to highlight the pass on the Jubilee Prize for civil servants. I served 25 years as a professional soldier, so I am quite familiar with the situation of the Hungarian Army and its professional staff and civil servants. Civil servants working in the Hungarian Defence Service are special civil servants who are in no way comparable to civil society employees. There are a number of areas within the Hungarian Defence Office where, although they have a civil servant status and work in it, they actually do such work as if they were professional soldiers, they are subject to regime measures, they are subject to restrictions that are not comparable to any civil servant. At the same time, we have fought for decades because the wages and salaries of these civil servants are significantly lower than those of professional colleagues working in similar positions. I can support every measure that can and will improve the income and wage situation of civil servants working in the Hungarian Defence Office in the future. I think that this proposal for an amendment also has an impact in this direction and should therefore be supported. The same applies to the care of war orphans and war widows, since this benefit is so low that the government's intention to have this idea is joyful and they want to improve this situation. In particular, it is good that there is also a kind of inflation indexation in this draft law, which provides some kind of guarantee that their supply will no longer be inflated. I consider it important to care for relatives, to extend the care of the relatives of the deceased who served in the Hungarian Army. I myself grew up as a child, a child of military orphans, and I know what it means when the Hungarian Army provides for the relatives of the deceased. What has not been mentioned, and I think it is important to talk about it after it is a salad law: with the ability to retain stock, the owner of the law justified the increase in the duration of the service relationship of contract soldiers or the contract to be concluded for five years; from five to ten years, apologies, so its lifting takes place from five to ten years. This was an old idea and an old idea, by the way, at the defence wallet and the Hungarian Defence Service. It is important that it is not only five years, since many soldiers who have demonstrated after a year or two that they can be suitable for longer periods of service. However, I do miss this draft law - it doesn't matter, I think, in civil life it doesn't matter whether you contract with someone for five years or ten years, it doesn't matter if you contract with someone for a year or two years. I think that this needs to be supplemented, and I could not find any reference to it, but if there is such an idea, I would be happy to hear it from the Secretary of State. If I come to the Hungarian Defence Office and wish to conclude a contract, it doesn't matter whether I commit myself to five years or ten years, what additional benefits will result from my commitment to the Hungarian Defence Office not for five years, but for ten years, and it is obvious that the same conditions cannot be the same if someone enters into a contract for five years, ten years, six years, eight years, nine years - even the conditions of unilateral termination. This is the same when I conclude a contract with a civilian service provider, say, a TV service provider, it doesn't matter if I sign a contract with it for six months, or if I commit myself to the service provider for two years, the more discounts the service provider offers, the longer I enter into a contract. I think that the same applies to contract soldiers, but it doesn't matter that they commit themselves to the Hungarian Defence Service for five years, seven years, eight years, ten years. I think that other benefits or obligations should be applied in the event that, let's say, the contract concluded with the Hungarian Defence Service is unilaterally terminated by the contract soldier, but the same must also apply in the case that the Hungarian Defence Office unilaterally terminates the contract with the soldier. This must be worked out as to what is applicable then, and it is obvious that a kind of motivational factor must also be introduced in order to conclude a contract for as long as possible, since the aim is to use this defence as a conservation tool. As far as matters relating to the voluntary operational reserve or other voluntary service are concerned, I think that flexibility should not be sought, Mr Secretary, although I understand the importance of flexibility, but it would be much more important to clarify the content of these services. Dozens of volunteers from Ops are writing me a letter and complaining that they didn't do that while now they've received their summons and are taking them down to the border to serve. There are a number of volunteers among them who, when they have undertaken and concluded contracts, have been identified in the health survey and health inspection as being fit for service; there are many of them who, by reason of their age and health status, are otherwise not fit to be led to the border and serve at the border. In any event, they may write a letter to their call commander in this regard and be notified of it, or they will be given the opportunity to be threatened that they will be discharged immediately if they start complaining or simply do not deal with their pleadings. Many of these people, as you know, have undertaken the voluntary operational reserve service on some kind of coercion, because, by the way, 16 percent of their duties have been deducted so that they will not be deducted from them if they undertake this service. At the same time, they had previously been invited to various barracks, where they had an administrative or office function, which they would be happy to carry out in the future, but some are otherwise physically unfit to do so. I must fully agree with my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, who said that yes, there is a need for reserve services, but it really makes sense to develop and expand reserve services in a country if, by the way, the professional service is in order and the conditions are provided, whether these are related to the care of soldiers or even technical conditions, and the stock is fully charged according to the needs. Until this is done, resources must not be used to expand the reserve service, because we do not have the basis to build on. This is like building the house at the roof: it doesn't make any sense; first, the foundation must be laid firmly and the resources must be spent on it and then built. This is the same as what I just told you to stretch out until your blanket hits. If our blanket does not reach the point where we can develop the voluntary reserve service, then we should not develop it, until then we should develop the Hungarian Defence Forces and put in the money and the necessary resources. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say.
u2016-11-09-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he wants to answer. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2016-11-09-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank you for all the supporting contributions and speeches that have come out of all directions, because we really need to have a common goal: in this law, we want to provide for the military staff. It is very important for us to increase the benefits and expansion of warcare workers in the past period, now in this law from 2018 onwards, to increase their benefits. [[16.50]] Indeed, the old-age pension minimum, which has been the basis for many years, has remained unchanged, which is why we have now touched it this year, so that we can ensure this in 2018, but not the competence of the Ministry of Defence to change the old-age pension minimum. But like all suggestions, of course, the one who has to listen to them will. We will certainly consider the proposals that come to us. She also spoke about the voluntary reserve service. Making it more flexible in this case means that so far there has been a voluntary reserve of operations and a voluntary reserve of protection, and, as Minister has already said in the debate on the law on the formation of a military sports association, the voluntary service organised on a territorial protection basis would be a third leg of voluntary service. Here we wanted to remove all other indicators from the volunteer reserve service, and in this law, only voluntary reserve services remain. But it's also part of the truth that the shortage of numbers, the creation of different versions of missing soldiers and voluntary service... is not a replacement for one another. So it is not that we want to replace the missing soldiers with this system, as Congresswoman mentioned. They're part of another system. And if we talked about 197 districts, as you said, Minister, and we are planning to create a century in each of them, that is exactly 20,000 territorial defence volunteers, but we hope they will want to serve this type of service. I'm not sure if they're volunteering for another type of service, or if they want to be contract soldiers. So you can't replace one with the other. The 20,000 is a completely different system. We are talking about a different type of service organised on a case-by-case basis than in the context of a contractual relationship that rises to 5 or even 10 years now, and we do not want to replace the number that is currently missing. We would like to upload this by other means, such as the possibility of serving from five to ten years, as well as the introduction of a labour market bonus, which significantly increased the salary for crew members. And you are right, Congressman, it is necessary, of course, to distinguish between the recognition of five years of service and the recognition of ten years of service, not here, but in lower legislation. The congresswoman asked me about the use of real estate. This part of the amendment of the law serves to ensure that, in relation to cross-border tasks, the properties that the Hungarian Defence Office uses, so they are not owned by it, are used and used in accordance with the law, which applies to own-owned property. In the administrative procedural settlement, it is all about the fact that a number of offices have now entered the Ministry of Defence by terminating offices, where, if there are two different levels, first and second levels, the authority acting at second instance asks for the opinion of the Minister of Defence, who in this case has taken the first instance decision, because he is the one responsible for sectoral management, and it is not appropriate for another authority to overrule it. We've talked about temporary rank several times. I think this is in the best interests of the service soldiers, because it gives them the opportunity not to burn down every bridge behind them. There is a possibility of returning to the service if it is temporarily placed at a higher or lower rank, for example in the case of a foreign mission. The suitability or non-compliance of the voluntary operational reserve staff. I think that those who are not qualified cannot, of course, continue in their service, because the name implies that they are not fit for the task, and this is also a matter of safety and safety at work, so that they cannot perform that service. In all cases, our aim is to ensure that the voluntary operational reserve staff provide services, either in barracks or in border tasks, which they are capable of in all respects, both health and preparedness. Thank you again for the speeches in support of the bill. We will, of course, consider the proposals and ask this House to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday, which is 16:00 tomorrow. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a resolution condemning the persecution of Christians and genocide in the Middle East and Africa and supporting the persecuted until closure. Presentation submitted by our colleagues from Balog Zoltán, Gulyás Gergely, Vas Imre, Németh Zsolt fideszes, Semjén, Soltész Miklós, Rétvári Bence, Harrach Péter, Vejkey Imre and Szászfalvi László KDNP H/12700. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur on the agenda, Mr Imre Vejkey, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-09-125	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, terrorists of the Islamic State carry out genocidium, or genocide, against Christians in the Middle East. Despite the fact that no democratic political force can deny ISIS's superb brutality today, but the reality is that Western mainstream media do not broadcast the news of Christian persecution and religious persecution with sufficient weight, these news is largely silenced. Ladies and Gentlemen, Do you know that in 2014 the number of Christians executed because of their faith was 4344? Do you know that this number has risen to 7100 in 2015? Do you know that the bombing of Christian churches, prayer houses, institutions and arson have increased more than twice in 2406 cases compared to 1062 in 2014? Do you know that the Islamic State has further increased its record list of murdered, beheaded Christians? Ladies and Gentlemen, Perhaps one of the most feared activities of the Islamic State and did so was the 22 Egyptian Coptic migrant workers executed on the Tunisian coast. My mouth is amazing. Their most brutal act on Thursday, 2015 was the murder of 147 young Christians executed at Garissa University in Kenya. Ladies and Gentlemen, Further data. Do you know that ISIS recently burned down a 1,800 - year - old church in Mosul, and that the monks were driven away by an IV. He took a hundredth-century monastery, and did Christians receive an ultimatum to pay the $450 monthly head tax, which if they couldn't afford, because they didn't have that kind of monthly income, or would they convert to Islam, or would death be waiting for them? Do you know that the recent persecution of Christians has led to the martyrdom of 100,000 Christians and to the constant persecution of nearly 130 million Christians, ladies and gentlemen, 130 million? [[17.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The above facts also clearly show that Christendom is one of the world's most persecuted religious groups today, and while Christians are being persecuted for the confession of their faith in the Middle East and North Africa, in the Western world because of the reigning Christophobia. This means that in the so - called humanized part of the world, the objective knowledge and knowledge of Christian teaching has become almost as impossible to society today as it has been during the open Christian persecutions of the first centuries. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Of course, there are exceptions, so Hungary and Poland are exceptions. This is actually a free place to practice religion. But because of the commitment of Christian national values, both Hungary and Poland are at the crossroads of constant international political attacks, i.e. they are retaliating at European and global level against the state's commitment to Christian national values. On the so-called humanized half of the world, Christian values are relativity, Christian faith is described as unscientific, while under the heading of federal Europe they are building a new dictatorship based in Brussels. Ladies and Gentlemen, The leaders of the European Union have continuously and systematically wiped out Christian values from the everyday tissues of economic and social life, and today we are now at the expense of pseudohumanum and immorality, while an organized Muslim invasion and reservation is taking place against Europe and the indigenous population itself. Due to the European Union's migration policy, Islam is spreading like wildfire, which directs its total ideology against Christian culture. We are beginning to believe that migrants are no longer pretending to want to fit into European society, but are immediately taking up space and creating a parallel society according to their laws, because they do not share European values. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the European welfare states, instead of the unborn generations, Muslim immigrants will fill the void, because there is no vacuum that will remain forever a vacuum, so that the vacuum left behind by the unborn generations will not remain empty forever. The Muslims will fill this void, and when the critical mass arrives, they will end everything we once considered Western civilization. Ladies and Gentlemen, Instead of taking action against these tragic processes, today's leaders of the European Union are making the situation worse rather than solving it, denying the importance of Community values. Thus, in this situation, Christian family, Christian national, and Christian religious communities continue to be deliberately destroyed. Today's leaders in Europe are relativizing the truth and say that there is no good or bad in itself, so there are no values. Today's leaders in Europe believe that there is only the absolute human freedom that is being maintained towards extremeism, which means that values, including Christian values, are deliberately eradicated. Ladies and Gentlemen, At this rate, what is the difference between normal and abnormal? Ladies and Gentlemen, The future of the Western world, therefore, depends on whether or not to leave the Christophobia. So the future is still in our hands, but not for long. Let us act, let us not be passive, and let us do nothing. For persecuted Christians, let us make sacrifices as widely as possible, in as many places as possible, and in behalf of Christian values. Let us dare to live a Christian life and to do good against today's mainstream. It's up to us if we have a future. Will there be a temple in the future where we can go to pray, or will there be a mosque in its place? Dare to be courageous and stand up for our persecuted Christian brothers and for our Christian values! Remember, the greatest force is behind us. The world is about to change, and it's up to us whether we can renew it. If not, then we will be lost, if so, Hungary will set an example for the entire Western world. Or, as Father Pio had foretold decades ago, Hungary is a cage from which a beautiful bird will emerge. They will suffer much more, but they will have unparalleled glory throughout Europe. I envy the Hungarians because they will bring great happiness to mankind. Few nations have such powerful guardian angels as the Hungarians, and it would certainly be right to ask for effective protection of their country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and Gentlemen, Closed with the above lines, Father Pio's prophecy, I ask you to support the condemnation of the persecution of Christians and the condemnation of genocide in the Middle East and Africa, and the support of those persecuted, H/12700. A proposal for a decision. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-09-126	Thank you. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-09-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The government supports this proposal. I believe that there is a proposal on the table in this House that can also be supported by all good people, all politicians and all Members of Parliament. In future, I will explain who has done this in countless countries of the world before us. I believe that Hungary can enter this line, and this can benefit everyone. At the same time, as Mr President has said, we are now dealing with an issue that is not important within the borders of Hungary, but, if we look at it on a global scale, we can stand up for the most persecuted group, Christians around the world. It can be said today in Hungary or in Europe that it is shocking for many people, because they think that, as Christians are in the majority here, there may be many in other parts of the world and that they can live in peace. At the same time, there are not few countries, at least 80 worldwide, where even a Christian may have problems with having a Bible, or even difficulties in dealing with power, with the law, or even with prison. Laughing international organizations go through the greatest level of Christian persecution every year. The Open Doors organization has collected last year the ten countries where Christians were most attacked: Syria, Iraq, Nigeria, North Korea, Somalia, Afghanistan, Sudan, Iran, Pakistan and Eritrea, mainly Muslim countries. As Congressman said, Muslim religion is a total religion, not only is it limited to religious rituals, but it wants to dominate all areas of life, economy, privacy, public life, politics, the army, everything. Hence, living there is often very difficult for Christians. But not only in these 10 countries, but in all 80 countries. But there are countries where there is no Muslim majority, say, Congo, Ethiopia or the Central African Republic, but the extremist Islamist forces are so aggressive that even villages are being burned down there and Christians are being persecuted. It is therefore up to us, with this Parliamentary resolution proposal, to stand up for the most persecuted, who most need the help of law, and to help international law. It is perhaps a well - known fact that every five minutes worldwide, a Christian dies because of his faith, and every five minutes, there is a Christian martyr in the 21st century. At the beginning of the century. Precisely because there are many attacks on Christian communities in many places, which are listed by a representative. Even 147 Christians were attacked and killed at the same time. When we look at attacks on Christian churches and institutions, they have also grown year after year, since the middle of the first decade of the 2000s. While, if I look at 2014, there are 1062 such attacks, and in 2015 more than twice as many, 2,406 such attacks were counted. These are institutions, attacks on temples, primarily against churches. But there are many examples of disfellowshipping with state propaganda, how Christians should be expelled, how Christians should be exterminated. Clearly, in many cases Christendom also stands against the Western world, the western world that is repressive to them, and the white man, the western whites, and Christendom are put together, which is why these 2,000 - year - old Christian communities who live there suffer this persecution. [[17.10]] This is about standing up for 2,000-year-old communities whose existence has been threatened in recent years. It is also known that the conversion from Muslim faith to Christian faith is punished in several countries with death penalty, that Christian women in many countries can be punished with impunity, and that Christian settlements are in constant danger, and that the distribution of Christian publications also in many cases has criminal consequences. Many have therefore been forced to flee, many do not live in their original homes, hundreds of thousands and millions of Christians have been persecuted in the Middle East, but we can also talk about the same numbers in North Africa and Central Africa. If the international community does not act, the lives of these people and the location of their 2000-year-old communities will be put at risk forever or will disappear forever. This is why it was important that Hungary also played a humanitarian role in this region. With church involvement, we are building a school in Erbíl with the help of the church authorities there, where the land exchange has already taken place. Plans for the building have been completed, a three-storey school is planned there, and the building authorisation procedure is currently underway. We hope that the construction itself can soon begin, so that Christian children who have been persecuted can go to school, if not in their native village, but not so far away from it. Hungary has also made its offer to the so-called Madad Fund of EUR 3 million; this is the reconstruction fund established by the European Union. This is a small amount of money, given the size of other countries' offerings, since it was a similar offer, say France, Spain or Belgium, the countries with much bigger economic power than we have made this 3 million offer, and it is in the first 5 countries in the order of magnitude if I look at the amount of the offers, Hungary. So here we try to do our part in the reconstruction as we do. And it was also important for the humanitarian care of immigrants waiting at the Hungarian border affected by immigration that the Hungarian government concluded a comprehensive agreement with 3 charities last year and 5 charities this year. Last year we support them with 200 HUF 250 million to provide humanitarian assistance to those waiting there. As I said, those humanitarian values, on the one hand, solidarity with the people there, assistance on the ground, protection of their lives and rights and their physical integrity is not merely a matter of Hungary. It is a general human expectation, a general question of humanity, that we do this, we do it out of our own strength, what we can do in parliament, in government, in humanitarian action, and in all other countries, in all other governments and in international organisations, it is equally an obligation. Allow me, therefore, as I have said, to explain which countries or international organisations have already adopted declarations of similar content. I would also like to say this and present it to you in order to demonstrate that this is an absolutely non-party political issue; this is an issue which has been accepted by these organisations in countless other countries, regardless of their political affiliation, without belonging to international organisations, countries or political groups, because it is about the protection of general human rights, human dignity and human life, which does not know political boundaries, but requires action on the part of everyone. One of the first was the declaration adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 27 January 2011 - so this is one of the earliest, I would like to present to you here [[He's showing it to me.]] - which has made it clear that the Council calls on all European religious leaders to condemn attacks on Christian communities and other religious groups. If I look at the declarations this year - I try to list only the most recent ones - let me also mention the document of the European Parliament adopted on 4 February this year, in which the European Parliament once again drew attention to the violations of the Islamic State and says that it literally calls for a strong condemnation of all those who condemn crimes against humanity and war crimes. The European Parliament has also made this call for everyone. He also expressed his view that persecution, atrocities and international crimes constitute crimes against war and humanity. The European Parliament highlighted that the Islamic State is committing genocide against Christians, the Jesids and other religious and ethnic minorities. The European Parliament has therefore also made clear the three categories of law included in the Hungarian draft decision. On 17 March this year, the U.S. Government Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement stating that the Islamic State they call Daesh is responsible for genocide against Christians and obviously also against others. The Islamic State also declares itself an exterminator, says the U.S. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by its ideology and actions, what it says, what it believes and what it does, which is why they believe that the Islamic State is responsible for war crimes and ethnic cleansings against humanity. At the same time, on the day of our national holiday, on 15 March 2016, the United States House of Representatives adopted a declaration and a resolution in my hands. [[He's showing it to me.]] which was then approved by the upper house there, the Senate. It states that atrocities committed by the Islamic State against Christians and other groups in Iraq and Syria are crimes against war and humanity and genocide. In addition, the Lower and Upper House of the United States, i.e. the House of Representatives and the Senate, calls on all governments, including the US Government, to call the atrocities of the Islamic State crimes and genocide against war and humanity. In addition, if we go further from the United States to the United Kingdom, on April 20, 2016, this spring the House of Commons adopted a resolution in which it stated - this is also here, I can show it to you. [[He's showing it to me.]] - that Christians suffer genocide in Iraq and Syria, which is why the English House of Commons called on the UN Security Council and the International Criminal Court to prosecute the perpetrators. And if we try to look at one of the farthest countries, Australia, the Australian House of Representatives also adopted on 2 May this year a resolution declaring and condemning the ongoing genocide activity of the Islamic State in Iraq, or stating that these are systematic killings, hostages, trafficking in human beings against minorities. We can therefore well see that almost all the civilised countries in the world, regardless of current government color, have spoken, regardless of their political attitude or form of government, against acts of terrorism committed by or against Christians and other minorities or groups in other parts of the world, condemning them and calling for humanitarian action. On the one hand, our proposal for a decision includes this international humanitarian minimum, the entry into the European political family. On the other hand, it is unique that, if we look at the international declarations I have presented, the plural declaration and declaration that is contained in it has not been formulated elsewhere, since our proposal condemns the acts of the Islamic State and condemns the atrocities against all Christian or other religious groups. It describes what has been going on in recent years as genocide, a crime against humanity, and calls on the organs to hold those responsible by the International Criminal Court to account as soon as possible. The international criminal law guarantee and established procedural and material rules have been available for years or decades, so the International Criminal Court can act in these types of crimes, in the types of crimes against international war and humanity. That is why we consider it important for Hungary to declare this, the Hungarian Parliament, as our main representative body, to declare this, and therefore also to call on the government to propose measures in international forums, presenting the content of this resolution, or to organise humanitarian actions itself, or to try to act to protect these people, the extremely vulnerable people, in accordance with the country's potential. We can't imagine what it's like to live in a daily threat to nearly 200 million people in 80 countries just and exclusively in connection with Christian faith and Christian conviction. God forbid we ever have a direct experience in this. But the minimum that we can do for these people is to take decisions and then take decisions, together with the international community, from the United States to the United Kingdom, with the participation of ET, the European Parliament or even Australia, in their interest in humanitarian matters and security. That is why I would ask you, from all parties, to support this proposal, to support the support of other pro-government and opposition representatives in other countries as well. [[17.20]] Let us name what is now happening in this terrible, dark corner of the world, which is being done to hundreds of thousands and millions of people. Think of how fair we felt when other countries had solidarity with us in history over the past decades or centuries, when Hungarians had to endure suffering for decades or centuries. This is the minimum that such a country, which has experienced as much historical exorcism as Hungary, should always speak for those persecuted in the world among the first. Please support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-128	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-09-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, It can be read in the Scriptures, more specifically in the Gospel of John, when Jesus turned to his disciples and said: "If I am persecuted, you will be persecuted, too. The prophecy of the Saviour Jesus, or, if you will, may well put it that way, the prophecy has been fulfilled, but during the Christian persecution, it is not the horrors of ancient Rome or Nero that need to be considered. As a Christian, and even as a Reformed minister, I believe that it was just here and it is time for the Hungarian Parliament to draw attention to the fact that the most persecuted religion in the world is a Christian with a resolution proposal before us. More than a billion people on Earth claim to be Christians, or followers of Christ, and these believers suffer most antireligious attacks. As has been said by the Secretary of State and my fellow Member, according to some statements, a fellow human being suffers martyrdom every 4-5 minutes simply because he claims to be a Christian. Yet, European man's stimuli will only be reached when he has his head on the continent of brutal cruelty that doesn't respect anything. I would add that you have every right to shake the people of Hungary, for example, when a French old priest's throat is cut by reference to the Islamic State. It is very sad and regrettable that, in fact, outside Europe, these cases are common and occur in a multitude. It is interesting, however, that the public discourse did not reveal that the persecution of Christians had yet another victim. Yet, according to the latest report of the Open Doors international Christian organization, more than ten thousand people were executed and burned in 2014 while exercising the faith of the bomb attack. According to the survey, about 120 to 130 million Christians are subject to persecution each year because of their faith. Let us consider some specific examples that sound almost unbelievable, but still true. For example, in North Korea, the possession of the Bible is subject to public hanging. In Iraq, between 1.2 and 1.5 million Christians lived until 2003, but since then their number has fallen to some 400 thousand, and this is partly because they were exterminated. One of the biggest cases in Pakistan is physical brutality, humiliation, assault. In this country there is the death penalty for the blasphemy of Allah or the spreading of a different kind of faith. And in more than 70 states of the earth, there is punishment for exercising Christian faith. I would like to draw particular attention to the Eastern Christians, whose ancestors were followers of Christ. Their prayer houses were built nearly 2,000 years ago, and it is also a proven fact that their presence precedes the appearance of the Islamic State by 600 years. CHAPTER XX One in four Middle Eastern people were Christian at the beginning of the century. Today, however, 11 million people have remained in an area of 320 million Muslim believers. And these are the natives who initially greeted Muslims in a friendly manner. However, when Islam conquered the area and the Caliphs had already written the laws, Christian people became second-class citizens, they could be said to have made subjects, or humiliated to the ground. Today, jihadists make it clear about Christ believers. They say: either switch to Islam, or leave, or they must be destroyed. Dear fellow Members, I think that their sad example should be a warning sign for Europe. However, when we learn lessons, we cannot stop. As Christians, I feel it is my duty to speak openly for our brothers. We can't let them and can't let them kill our fellow humans because of their faith. With the adoption of the parliamentary decision, I believe that Hungary can make it clear that it will not turn a blind eye to the inhumanities committed. The general justification for the proposal includes international documents which explicitly prohibit religious discrimination. Perhaps we can put it as a question of why these principles do not prevail when it comes to Christians being persecuted. The Hungarian Fundamental Law goes further than these declarations. The exercise of freedom of expression should not be aimed at violating the dignity of the Hungarian nation, the national, ethnic, racial or religious communities. Persons belonging to such a community shall be entitled to enforce their claims in court against the expression of an opinion which violates the Community because of the violation of their human dignity. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear fellow Members, I think that such example is very right on the part of Hungary, and therefore let us not be more lenient even if various terrorist organisations in other countries deliberately slaughter people because of their faith. Finally, I would like to welcome the decision of the Government and the Ministry of Human Resources to establish a Deputy State Secretary to help the persecuted Christians and entrust the task to Tamás Török, an experienced diplomat. I trust that through him our voice will reach the world's leaders, leaders, and people. Of course, I wish you every success in your work, and I also ask God to help you work effectively. Finally, as has already been said, we are not talking about right-wing or left-wing views, but simply about people, Christian people, and that is why I ask my fellow Members with respect and affection to support this proposal for a resolution. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-09-130	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2016-11-09-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP acknowledges and follows the values and objectives contained in the human rights Charter. The Charter condemns any discrimination on grounds of race, origin, sex and, of course, religion, including, where appropriate, its violent forms. It is a matter of fact, which my fellow Members have said before me, that, in particular, in Iraq and Syria, there has been shocking aggression and genocide against Christian communities, and we can fully agree with this condemnation, and I think that all people of good conscience agree with this. The persecuted must be helped and protected, and the perpetrators of crimes against humanity must be captured and condemned. Therefore, by calling for this to be done by the drafters of the proposal and, more importantly, they would like to call on the government to promote these processes, and I would like to say once again that we can agree to the fullest extent. [[17 .30]] We are also pleased that, contrary to what has been said by the speakers before me, the proposal for a resolution also states that the Parliament expresses its sympathy for all the minorities in the world persecuted on a religious basis, that is to say, not only about Christians, as you have done, but also about people representing all the religions of the world, people who have been persecuted as minorities because of their religious beliefs. We also agree and welcome the fact that the proposal for a resolution condemns terrorism, terrorist acts in general, does not matter what ideology someone commits. I've been talking about what we deeply agree with, but let me have a few critical sentences. One of them relates to the submission of the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, these are typically the legislative proposals or proposals for decisions that should at least be attempted as a five-party proposal, because the condemnation and action against human rights violations is not a national matter but a supranational matter. It would not be necessary to have a formal discussion here, not a day before that of a press-public five-partisan, we are pretty much all aware of who is dealing with church or religious issues in the various factions, it would be worth inviting these people to consult, and so perhaps a text that corresponds in every respect to all five parties and that they can ensure their support as a joint proposal. Because there are parts of the text that we obviously don't like. Basically, once again, with the case for which this proposal for a resolution has been tabled, we would have agreed to the fullest, but it would have been nice to put it together so that every political party representing this noble cause would be able to vote with the best of heart. The other issue, which I would like to mention, is that... In one sentence only: honourable Members, this is precisely the time when we need the generousness of the governing parties to not like such a matter, but, if possible, to strive to have a consensus on the whole party as a five-party proposal. I miss that generousness of yours very much. My second question is what the government has done so far. Because I'm very happy, and I think it's important that we express our concern, but it's the actions that really qualify a country. So far, I've had no answer to that. I also raised this at the Justice Committee meeting, where, to my surprise and surprise, Imre Vas said about this that was not relevant. Why not? When we want to adopt a proposal for a resolution asking the government or obliging it to take action against such acts, why is it not relevant to ask and examine what the government has done in this case? I would be happy to have an answer here in plenary today, even because one of my fellow Members was in charge of this issue as a member of the government. The other thing I would like to mention as a criticism on this subject is, you know - how to put it? - I don't want to be provocative, I really don't, but when the refugees arrived in Hungary, you didn't see who of them was a Christian and who didn't treat them as a single mass, they refused all kinds of humanitarian assistance. Compared to this, it was opposition parties, and some NGOs that helped these refugees, regardless of their religion, Christians or Muslim believers. This is completely independent of how we approach migration as a phenomenon. It was not a matter of taking a stand whether we loved him or not, or whether we were happy that there was a war of migrants coming to this country, but that people had arrived here, and that the government had failed to create a minimum obligation to create humane conditions for them; if civil society organisations had not done this - and, by the way, some opposition parties, and I am proud that ours belonged - I do not know what would have happened. And I would also like to stress that, I say once again, they were Christian people, and you and your government treated them as a united migrant mass, not practically human. That's what's a little dissonant to me when we talk about such a proposal. Here's to showing solidarity and humanity and humanity in action. The other section of my speech is that I would have quite finished here, adding that I stress that what is in this proposal for a resolution can be most agreed, but I am truly sorry - and here I refer to the speech by my fellow Member Imre Vejkey and even more so by Mr Zoltán Demeter, because, by the way, the Secretary of State did not make such comments, I must add - that what the Member raised in his expo is fortunately not included in the proposal for a resolution. I respect, indeed, my fellow Member Vejkey's deep religious conviction is deeply respected, but in our view - and since he spoke about it during his expo, I would like to make this clear again - we are in favour of the total freedom of religion and the religious neutrality of the state, and we are also taking a stand, both now and later. I would also like to say that, in our view, the persecution of Christians in the world has nothing to do with whether, say, the European Union will bring Christianity into a constitution to be created, Christian faith or not, and that action must be taken against terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, these have nothing to do with what we are talking about here, because - and I will come to this for a little while, but allow only two thoughts in the context of terrorism - I do not know if anyone has done a survey or anything like that, I suppose, I do not know how many Christian people and how many Muslims have died because jihadists, members of the Islamic State, do not only spare Christians, but also do not spare Muslims. So to wash - as my fellow Member Demeter did, and I must most definitely reject this - Islam with jihad, with jihad today, with today, with today, and with the Islamic State, I think that it is more than a sin, because it is so, with a hearing, but against a religion, Congressman, that is all I can say. [[17.40]] Islam is not responsible for acts of terrorism, but for those who commit acts of terrorism and those who pour down their own ideology with a kind of religious glaze, and in this name they carry out acts of terrorism against Christians and, so to speak, their fellow believers. Honourable Congressman, Don't do this. If you really are a follower and a believer of Christian morality, you don't like that - you know? Ladies and gentlemen, The defence of one religion - and once again I respond to the speeches - must be established by taking action against another religion, as should religious wars. I would like to stress that this is not a politically correct approach, and I am not saying this because I want to be this way, but this is an opinion resulting from the principles that give the pillars of European culture. European culture must be protected, we agree, there is no debate between us in this, a European culture based partly on Christian roots. I do not want it either, ladies and gentlemen, if my daughter should live here, according to the saria. And I don't want you to have to play the role of a woman declared by Islam today. I don't want to. I would like to see a thousand years of European culture or more than a thousand years of European culture continue to live and flourish here in Europe. I just want to say - and I think there is the biggest contradiction in your argument - that we should not confuse religion with culture and morality. This is also our problem with the Fundamental Law or this provision of the Fundamental Law, we have said this many times. It is not Christianity as a religion - it is a fact, it is good, it is not good, but it is a fact - but it is the Hungarian culture on which Christianity basically pressed its stamp and shaped it. These two shouldn't be mixed up. Yes, the fundamental root of Hungarian European culture is Christianity and Christian culture. But now it's divorcing religion, and it's not worth washing these two together. I say this in a way that you know perfectly well, there have been numerous debates on this subject, that I, by the way, claim to be a Christian and Catholic person. But it has to be everyone's most sacred private affair. Once again, action against the persecution of Christianity is necessary primarily because of crimes against humanity, because everywhere in the world people are persecuted for whatever reason, because of their racial, religious beliefs, because of their origin, it must be fought at international level. My fellow Member, Mr Demeter, mentioned one such thing as the prohibition of religious discrimination in Hungarian law, and I would ask you not to do so in relation to other religions. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the debate itself has gone far beyond the framework that is included in this proposal. However, I felt it necessary to respond to the points, but at the end or at the end, I can only say that fortunately we should not vote on the speeches, but on the proposal for a decision before us. That is, for my part - there is no faction decision yet - I will propose to the faction the support of the resolution proposal, despite the speeches I have heard before mine. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-09-132	I now give the floor to László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-11-09-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The Christian Democratic People's Party welcomes the proposed parliamentary resolution. As many have said before me, it is a matter of fact, Christianity is the world's most persecuted religious group. The persecution of Christians began from the first century, and the 21st century began. For centuries, this kind of Christian persecution has been present in the world. Today, the number of Christians who have been persecuted has increased greatly, and are increasing, and some of them I will say, too, but I may repeat those who spoke before me. I would also refer to the data of the Dutch-inspired, but international organization Open Doors. In 2014, the number of Christians executed because of their faith was 4344, and in 2015 the number increased to 7100. The bombings against Christian churches, prayer houses, institutions, and arson increased more than twice in comparison to 1062 in 2014, to 2406. In the Middle East and Africa, cruelty against Christians is felt to the greatest extent. With the territorial expansion of the terrorist organization known as the Islamic State, the number of executed Christian believers and exploding Christian shrines and churches increased in harmony. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to repeat the many specific figures that have been given to me by the Members before me, in any case a little summation of them, and also the data indicated by the Secretary of State, so that in 80 countries some 200 million people live directly in danger of life, and this - by joining my fellow Member Barondy a little bit - not only,. not just Christian, Christian, Christian communities, let me say this as a little Protestant person, we sometimes mix this together and sometimes consciously do this, so it affects not only Christian communities, but also, of course, other religious communities as well. In summary and in general terms, in terms of the methods and methods in which Christian persecution manifests itself in practice, we can say that obviously open and hidden elements are also being implemented, in many states debauchery has become an official program, extermination or expulsion. In several Muslim countries, the conversion from Muslim to Christian religion is prohibited by law, and converts may even expect death penalty. Those who are accused of violating the Qur'an or the Prophet will be sentenced to death. So I'm not talking about Islam as a religion here, and I'm talking about it, of course, but I'd rather say that it's a practice of abuse of Islam. Christian women can be dishonored without punishment, forced to convert to Islam, to marry a Muslim man. Then it is also a practice to regularly attack Christian settlements, to kill, to drive away, to burn down their houses. The community of settlements, often the family, excommunicates Muslims converted to Christian faith, expels him from his residence, and kills him in the wrong case. So people in their own religion are also attacked, driven away or killed, murdered. In many lands, distribution and even possession of the Bible and other Christian publications are prohibited. Ladies and gentlemen, So with the resolution proposal, we express our sympathy for all the religiously persecuted minorities in the world, and especially in the present situation with the Christian communities in the Middle East and Africa and with other religious communities. We condemn in this resolution, in this proposal for a resolution, the slaughter of Christian, Jesuit and other religious groups living in Syria and Iraq, and condemn the terrorist crimes committed by the Islamic State and other terrorist organisations and militias, attacks against the civilian population, such as murders, unjust imprisonment, torture, the abduction of women, the exploitation and abuse of children, sexual violence, forced slavery, deportation, forced displacement of the population and forced marriage. [[17.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to discuss the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 4 February 2016, in a bit more detail, but let me quote here, in addition to the many concrete examples already given, two concrete examples of this European Parliament resolution. I quote: On the night of August 6, 2014, more than 150,000 Christians fled from the invasion of the so-called Islamic State of Mosul, Karakos, and other villages of the Nineveh Mountains, all their assets were abducted because they have since lived away from their homes, under uncertain conditions; all those who could not escape were captured by ISIS, non-Muslim women and children were forced into slavery, some were sold while others were brutally murdered and filmed by the perpetrators. Another, I also quote: In February 2015, the Islamic State invaded many farming communities on the southern bank of the Kabur river in the northeastern province of El-Hasake, and abducted more than 220 Assyrian Christians, of whom only a few have been released until today, while the fate of the others remains unknown. Dear Parliament, We Europeans must act together and help people living in the Middle East and Africa, people living in Christian and other religious communities. We need to get help where we need it, humanitarian or military. We must restore peace and order in these areas, and we Hungarians, Hungary, must take part in this. And, of course, I would like to reflect a little bit on my fellow Member, Mr Barándy, on the question he has just raised, or on the question of how the Hungarian Government has taken part or is taking part. In part, the Secretary of State Rétvári reflected on this and said some concrete government projects to help the Christian-Christian community out there, and on the other hand, the Hungarian government has participated in joint humanitarian assistance in many ways, and I think that it is the duty and responsibility of all European and Christian countries to play a greater role in these joint humanitarian actions. Let me also reflect on the fact that, if you allow me, Mr Barándy, in the process of illegal migration, the government has tried to separate the migrant process and help refugees and help those in need. In particular, there has been a lot of action there, including a very important measure that I think the government has consistently and predictablely supported with more than HUF 500 million, specifically with the aim of helping, supporting and surrounding these charities in the process of illegal migration. Moreover, the municipalities concerned were also assisted by the government and civil society organisations in order to make this provision real. I do not doubt what my fellow Member Bárándy said, that the MSZP also carried out this kind of activity; I was in my constituency in Barcson and Zakány many times, where more than 170 thousand people passed through, and I can say that in addition to the Hungarian state authorities, law enforcement agencies, charities and civil society organisations, as well as local governments and individuals, have actually done a great job. But the government did not oppose this, but helped and supported it, specifically through funding, financing and other means. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me now address, for some thought, the resolution adopted by the European Parliament in Strasbourg on 4 February 2016, given that I consider this to be of historical importance, in which the European Parliament has declared mass murders, crimes committed by the Islamic State to be genocidium, genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. I consider this to be a very important step, and I think this is a historic step, because perhaps for the first time in the European Union institutional system such strong wording and such a firm resolution has been made. The religious persecutions and murders committed by the Islamic State, says this resolution, constitute crimes against humanity and war crimes within the meaning of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, and stresses the need to take steps to ensure that these crimes are classified as genocide by the UN Security Council. The Islamic State deliberately targets Christian and other religious communities who disagree with their interpretation of Islam. The resolution condemns the destruction of religious and cultural sites and objects. The international community should provide protection and support, including military protection and assistance to people targeted by the so-called Islamic State and other terrorist groups in the Middle East, such as ethnic and religious minorities, and their participation in future lasting political solutions. The resolution, which is also a significant part of the resolution, calls on the Union to establish a permanent special representative for freedom of religion and belief - I think this could again be an important step forward - and calls to the attention of all Member States of the European Union that UN Security Council Resolution 2249 empowers Member States which are in a position to take all necessary measures to step up and coordinate their efforts in the areas of Syria and Iraq controlled by the so-called Islamic State, in accordance with international law, in particular the principles of the United Nations Charter and international human rights legislation, in accordance with asylum and humanitarian law. It's a pretty complicated, baroque sentence, but in that, I think there's really a lot in it. Ladies and gentlemen, The parliamentary resolution proposal we are discussing now fits into the international line that has already been born in the House of Representatives of the United States of America, we have heard it in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom and in the House of Representatives of Australia, on the other hand, the Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament's resolution cited above. Dear Parliament, Surely the thought of the Church Father Tertullian is true: the blood of the Christian is sowing seed - which has been confirmed for two thousand years. Perhaps the result is that there are still many of us who can raise their voice today for the Christian martyrs, and with them by all means possible - and now with a parliamentary resolution - we can take solidarity. Of course, KDNP supports this proposal, and we ask the other highly respected groups to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2016-11-09-134	Thank you. I now give the floor to Adam Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-09-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to start by saying briefly that I am deeply in agreement with my fellow Member, Gergely Bárándy, on two points, because when you bring such a question, a very important question and a proposal for a resolution, which I fully support, before the Parliament, and in every speech, before any important thought is said, you stress that it is independent of party politics that it is not a matter of internal politics to look at, but of a very important and serious matter, then you do this by not knowing on what basis, those who are present in the proposal for a resolution, but have not attempted to create the message that it is indeed a national matter. [[18.00]] As has already been the case this year, a proposal has been made when a really common, important, consensus-based proposal has come before the Parliament, and all five parliamentary parties with factions have been the group leader or party chair. It is a clear message to anyone and it is clear to anyone that this is not a political issue and that it has the support and clear position of all groups. This is so in this form, as some Fidesz-KDNP Members bring in one of these, and then, in almost the first sentence, they start by saying that this is not a party political issue, so it does not fit this subject, but I have to say that it is so petty and at least not elegant, very elegant. If that's the goal, and I'm not gonna be petty, and I don't think any other factions are gonna be petty, and I'm sure they're gonna support it, because the proposal is totally okay, but we're not paying attention to the details, that we're referring to Christian values, and we're really trying to make the most important moral groundwork common ground, but we're not paying attention to the most fundamental issue... I think it should be a learner's fee. Obviously, you will no longer withdraw it, you will not ask the opposition factions who would like to join it as a petitioner. It's okay, we're gonna support you anyway, I can advance that. But I would like to ask, and especially the Christian Democratic People's Party, that in such cases, when it comes to such matters, it would be so good to see at least the spark of humility, because let us be honest, the style of submission, its mediation in the press is anything but humble. It hurts me to say this on a subject like this, but it does. The other is that my fellow Member of Szászfalvi has indeed said it much more accurately and more carefully, but in the speeches that preceded it, Islam was not so subtlely, but quite directly set, I say, as a representative who lived his Catholic faith, that it is equal to terrorism, and that all immigrants are terrorists and everyone is jihadists, and here we must not allow them to be mosques. I mean, I don't want to, either, but for some other reason, I don't want to. I fully respect if someone is a Buddhist, if one is a Hindu, simply because I would like to draw attention to the fact that the second Vatican Council had quite serious encyclicals, and one of them is Nostra aetate, which lays the Christian attitude towards world religions. If I were to confront the content of this encyclical and the speeches made by its representatives, we would see that there is no thank-you attitude towards what was said here in the spirit of Christian conduct. So what I'm saying is, let's be careful. Mr Barándy is right in saying that, by the way, the lunatic terrorists of the Islamic State - because it is safe to call it that - are killing not only Christians indiscriminately, but practically every person who stands in their way and does not advertise or accept what they do. So I would be a little bit more sensitive to respect here, because if it were true or the suggestion that anyone who is Muslim or Islamic is prone to jihadist and terrorism, then in Hungary? slowly in the world - there wouldn't be any other people of religion, so many assassinations, so many murders and so much brutality. So I'd like to suggest a more cautious wording. As far as the content of the proposal for a decision is concerned, I fully agree. I would like to make an amendment at one point, obviously I will not submit a proposal to it, but I would certainly like to say this because of the awareness raising, and this is point 3, which says so, and it is only right that the Parliament welcomes the Government of Hungary's participation in humanitarian aid and any supporting steps to restore peace and order in the region. But I would ask you very nicely that in this case, if we are really serious about this, then, in the steps that we take, the pro-government representatives should also warn each other and their decision-makers when sending soldiers to crisis zones to orders from other countries, and not necessarily, let us say, on the basis of our obligations arising from our NATO membership or our membership of the EU. Because believe me, whatever military crisis zone there is anywhere in the world or war crisis zone, there is another II. To quote Pope John Paul, he said that no broken social system can be restored with weapons, at least not from a Christian point of view. If we accept this, then I believe that it is understandable why we say, among other things, - and this is what we say politically - that a Hungarian soldier should not be involved in war conflicts in foreign countries. I continue to believe that it is not certain that our 150, 1500, or 15,000 soldiers will solve this issue, and that our soldiers in a foreign country seem to be as repressive, armed, ready to kill or human as the terrorists on the ground. But, once again, I will not submit such an amendment to him, but I would just like to warn him that we were not, and we are not, always on the right side, and that we are part of an alliance, that if that alliance takes an aggressor's step against someone and endangers peace, then we have the duty to draw this attention in-house. This is very important and would otherwise be a very consistent attitude. And what I would do as an addition to the proposal for today's debate is that for me, or what I see and experience, obviously by my age, there is much less or more modest experience than yours, but what I see is that not only is the persecution of Christians where someone is actually being chased and hurt or murdered with weapons, physical or other brutal means, but I think that there are many forms of Christian persecution. In fact, in some respects, I consider those forms to be more dangerous on a social scale. I would like the government parties to submit such a proposal for a resolution, not to go this far, but to go to action. What am I thinking during a Christian persecution? Obviously, this may seem like a cornered thing, but what is happening today on a verbal level, whether in the press or in culture or in everyday television programmes or in radio programmes, and here, in particular, moral and Christian values - meaning anything - are being lyed out, so society is being lyed out of all fundamental values, which is also, to a certain extent, Christian persecution in my reading. When in theatres, cinemas, television, really neo-primitive shows that are allowed by some people, and, where appropriate, even by the Hungarian government, it is financed in a certain way, let us say, the television channel where these programmes take place, thus indirectly promoting, at least not preventing us from giving space to this. I am not referring to a censorship that would go beyond the freedom we call creative freedom or anything else, but I am thinking of a censorship, so that there should be a certain degree of freedom, and from what point of view this is an insult that should not be allowed not only to Christians, but to others. [[18.10]] I could bring it here when the same sex organizes big rounds, and there's nothing else about provocation but the reproach of Christian religious symbols, and the rest, and so forth. We know these examples, and I don't want to get lost in those details, but that's what they're all about. What Congressman Bárándy says about culture and Christianity, which is the determining factor, I would certainly argue in this, but he is right in that regard that Christianity does not slowly define everyday culture, at least in Hungarian reality, because society is already grounded from it. And from this point of view, we lawmakers have a responsibility in this regard, even if it is not the same level, and if it is not direct, it is indirect, but there is. The only way to enforce this is to be clear about the pillars of what is protected and what is not, how far freedom spreads, and where there is an insult. I am also arguing from the point of view - I fully understood that my fellow Member considers his faith to be a personal matter, which is basically the case, but I very much like the wording that religion is the most personal public matter, and I think that this is the case. It's a personal matter, but it's also a public matter. Especially in a country whose identity, development, and value system have been fundamentally influenced over the last thousand years by Christianity and Christian faith in all aspects. But not just in words, but in political documents, but also in action. Let us also stand up when we have to vote in the budget; abortion, euthanasia, where appropriate - how many very sensitive issues there are, but from a Christian point of view, if we think of ourselves as a Christian person, we need to take a pretty clear position, even if it does not bring in supporting votes. So, I miss that we live in this kind of parallel reality often in the sense that one is part of communication, or, if you like, the glaze, the other is the practical, the everyday act. I think that these are the points, and these are the issues where it would be necessary to sit down at a five-party settlement - even in a non-official form - regardless of the form - and see how far our responsibility extends from meth, how far our opportunity extends, where we can intervene, where we can intervene in the media's filth world, which provides a clear framework for the extent to which the value extends from meth and where it is worthless and where there is an insult. It doesn't belong closely here, but as Christian Democrats, what do you think of daily content in press products linked to your own party alliance? Which, by the way, does not spare MSZP, a better person, an LMP, or any personal sanctity. He does not spare any Christian values. Do you at least in-house raise your voice against them? That children, well, we maintain these press products, we supply them with government ads, we stuff them with billions of dollars, and what do they pour on Hungarian society? Let's not talk about what the reality of these things is, by the way. And on a daily basis, they abuse people, privacy, parties, children, wives, parents. Is that okay? Do you think that's okay? Really, if all I heard was that we didn't like it in the house, and we were trying to do something about it, I'd believe it. Especially if it's followed by a practical step. I am only saying this because I think this document is very important, it is a very good step, but I would very much like to try to practice it in action in the face of the political battle of everyday life. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-09-136	Thank you. I am signaling and it is clear that the LMP Group is not here, so they are not speaking to it. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I don't see a candidate who wants to comment on the resolution proposal. So I will ask Congressman Imre Vejkey if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] You have the floor as an author.
u2016-11-09-137	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to express my thanks for the express support that Bence Rétvári said on behalf of the Hungarian Government, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, by Zoltán Demeter, on behalf of KDNP, by László Szászfalvi and by Ádám Mirkóczki on behalf of Jobbik. But I also thank you for the basic support, if I understand correctly, that was represented by our fellow Member, Mr Gergely Bárándy, on behalf of the MSZP. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy nodds.]] And then I would like to take a few reactions to what has been said. Perhaps at first, what my fellow Member Gergely Bárándy raised: that Christian values are not in the European Fundamental Law, and my fellow Member did not see this as such a problem. I see it as a major problem, on the one hand, because if we think of the founding fathers, Schuman, Adenauer, but Gasperi, then they said that Europe would be either Christian or not. At the moment, we are not at European level saying that we can show Christian values in legislation, but that it is just a historical fact, that we want to show that Europe has Christian roots, and that this fact cannot be recorded. It's not just the values, it's the de facto fact that I think it's very difficult to argue with. Thus, with the words of the founding fathers, whether Europe will be a Christian or not, it seems that the latter turns out to be true. The second question is whether or not there is a religious war, or I would like to link it with the question that our fellow Member Adam Mirkóczki said; the second question is whether there is a religious war. He raised the Christian attitude toward world religions in connection with the interpretation of the Vatican Council. In this connection, I would like to quote the Islamic State's instructive message to Pope Francis that Pope Francis said that terrorists do not commit assassinations because of religion. The answer was that it was a war driven by Allah between Muslims and faithless nations. They also taught the pope that the Koran's credible reading does not oppose all forms of violence. So the command is clear; as Allah said, destroy idolaters wherever you can find them. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the above, in spite of our best will, it is not possible to interpret what happened, even though Pope Francis tried to interpret it as such that it was not a war of religion, even though Christians tried to interpret it that way, if they themselves deny it, and say that what is going on is the war of religion against Christians and other Abrahamic peoples who, in their view, refuse fundamental principles of faith, and that is why they must be destroyed. Ladies and Gentlemen, Sadly, the facts clearly show that the terrorists of the Islamic State are destroying our sacred Christian places one by one, chasing away or destroying our Christian brothers. Christians didn't hurt anyone, they lived in peace, but their goodness and love caught the eye of those who persecuted them, who didn't want to see a more complete life that wasn't aimed at gaining power, which didn't gather earthly treasures, didn't excite worldly pleasures, but placed Jesus'revelation at the center of life. [[18.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Moral command to take action against the genocidium committed against Christians, to help persecuted Christians, and to bring the international public's attention to the untenable situation of persecuted ones, and to organise humanitarian actions. Let us not allow hatred and exclusion to threaten the lives of millions of innocents. The KDNP stands up for the persecuted and calls on extremists to stop violence immediately and to stop the attacks and persecutions against Christians immediately. Thank you once again for the supportive attitude of all parliamentary groups involved in the debate and for the support of the government, and I would also ask the others to support the H/12700. A proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2016-11-09-138	Thank you. The general debate is closed. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. First, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar: it is time to translate the language of Fidesz into Hungarian. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-09-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! At the beginning of today's debate, there were two pieces of legislation that belonged to my theme responsibility within the Jobbik faction and in which there was an unexpected consensus among the parliamentary factions. The reason for this was that we have seen a strange, rare example of the introduction of legislation before this House with its normal course. The profession has been negotiated, the opposition groups have been consulted, and it may even have been possible that the House will accept amendments that will improve the legislation in question and that may have been signed by an opposition representative at the bottom of the paper. I am very sad that, in six years, I may be able to count on one hand one of the laws of my own territory which came before this House in this form. In addition, they all included technical changes rather than a large, comprehensive, systemic improvement and modification of the given system. I would like to encourage my fellow MPs, after the agenda, to consider in opposition submissions - whether it is a proposal for a resolution, a legislative amendment or a written question - which clearly do not play for political gain, it is not that anyone here wants to be bullied by the petitioners, but by purely professional proposals, it is considered with similar thoroughness, by example of us, bettermen, and constructively stand on the matter. I would just like to draw the government's attention to some of these proposals submitted this week. The Chinese wine pavilion case. The exhibition where Hungarian wine can be introduced will be opened in China tomorrow. It's a scandal, the way that pavilion looks, we got the photos of it, and the visitors who had the opportunity to get to know it in advance are also completely outraged. After a little research, messing with the story, it turns out what God gives, the neighbor of one of the ministers, has also arranged this project. But we could also talk about the case of Hortobágy National Park. Kehi's investigation proved that the land was stolen, stolen from the farmers living there, from shepherds. Although we have learned the results of the Kehi study - that is why we had to go to a separate minister to see the data at all - but there has been no meaningful step, the situation has been the same to this day, a valuable herd of sheep and cattle that is famous at European level, and genetic resources are on the verge of the end, not to mention that they have ruined the livelihoods of many families. But I could also mention the national rural strategy that I have also presented this week, which is not a document by Jobbik, but by the government side, who put it on our table in 2010, and still dare not to bring their own documents to the House to vote. I understand why we don't, we understand, right-handers, because they are doing exactly the opposite of what they promised, that is to say, instead of helping small and medium-sized family farmers living on the ground, we see in property policy that state lands, the big fat ones, were bought by the oligarchs associated with you, and in the aid policy we can see that last year, two thirds of the funds were won by a small 10 percent elite, the richest elite in agriculture, which is absurd in itself, because the very name of this is aid policy, so it should actually be about using public money for the benefit of the public as much as possible, to support small and medium-sized ones. Let's not talk about the legislation, because in recent years, legislation has been created that cements all of this, allows it, and instead of moving towards a normal Hungarian region based on a cooperative system, based on the network of family farms, we started to walk the South American road, where a large part of natural resources is concentrated in the hands of a narrow elite, and the profits are pumped out from exactly where it is most needed. Therefore, I have resubmitted the cooperative law this week to remedy this. I've been listening to this for six years, every six months, every question I ask is that it's coming soon, but it's not before us to this day. I could also mention the plant regulation law, which is not being brought before the House, because then the Hungarian Parliament could finally say that it is a plant of interest. And then it would not be possible for what is happening at the moment to happen that the size of the lord's estates were brought together here by certain oligarchs near the government. The line could go on for a long time. I ask you to stand in the same position as our proposals, as we do with yours, in other words constructively. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-09-140	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, May I indicate that Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian is not here, so he can't tell you about the, for how long? I will close this agenda as well. We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. We will resume the meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 6:27 p.m.]]
