u2022-05-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 5th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian notaries will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that the Judicial Committee is the 61st Parliamentary Act. In the proceedings pursuant to paragraph 7 of Section 2/2018-2022 on the illustration adopted in the previous cycle, it was discussed. of the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee No 1/2022-2026. IÜB is accepted with unchanged content. The general statement can be found on the website. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP representative, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my speech before today's agenda, I would like to talk to you about an ecological disaster that has taken place in the river Sajó. I think that you have all now heard what is happening, that besides the settlement of Alsajó, a former mining plant has been spilling the extremely polluting substance into the Sajó River for three months now. As a result, it is a sad consequence that during these three months the river has died for practically tens of kilometers, so life in it has ceased, and I can tell you yesterday that after three months, this pollution reaches the river with the same intensity and even more daily entry, according to some experts. So the Slovak authorities and the Slovak Government have actually done nothing to slow down the pollution. Therefore, yesterday I was in the Highlands in the Rozsnyo district, and I can tell you that there is no evidence of any work at the source of pollution, no professionals, no sign of any attempt to eliminate contamination in any way. What I see is that several times in recent weeks, in months, Hungarian politicians, activists, environmentalists and civilians in the highlands have brought to the attention of the Slovak authorities what ecological disaster is happening, but the Slovak Government, the Slovak authorities seem to be in a state of paralysis and incompetence. I think that we agree that Hungary has work to do here not only in a moral but also in a legal sense, because it is our responsibility to preserve the natural resources of the Carpathian Basin, and we cannot have any illusion that if a larger wave of floods comes, that pollution will also cross the Hungarian border. What exactly happened here? A huge mining plant, an ore mine, which had been closed for about 14 years, had been operating near the town of Alssajó. This is a 13-level deep, huge mining area, and more than a decade ago, the pumping of water stopped, so it was clear that sooner or later this mine containing extremely dangerous materials would fill up with water. According to my information, a Slovak government decision was taken in 2017 on the need to start work and that this situation should be avoided. Therefore, this information was specifically held by the Slovak authorities and nothing happened. In February this year, this extremely dangerous substance, iron oxide-containing mining water, which, according to experts, also contains nickel, cobalt, zinc, and arsenic, began to flow. There have been numerous attempts by activists to draw attention to the unpredictable consequences of this, unfortunately this ecological disaster has been achieved. Here, the Slovak Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment point to each other, while no meaningful action has been taken. Of course, the reports were made immediately, but the authorities could not really act. Yesterday at the site, I saw this material coming out of a huge concrete spill, and this has been found several times by experts getting 2.4 tons of this heavily contaminated mining water into the river every day. So the result of this environmental destruction is quite tragic and shocking. Practically all forms of life in the river have ceased on these ten - mile [10 km] stretches. You can see there that the members of the fishing association gathered crab carcasses on the beach, that the fish slowly drowned as their gills were caught in this rusty water. The river became red at first on several ten kilometres, and then quite vividly yellow because of the release of iron oxide. We can see that this contamination is released in the alkaline water on these few ten kilometres, but it is only a matter of time before it reaches Hungary as well. Obviously, we also need to act because of environmental destruction there or in order to prevent it. As far as I know, the Hungarian authorities drew the attention of the Slovak authorities already in March and asked for the start of the remediation process, and here in itself it is also scary that the Hungarian authorities had to be informed from the press, so environmental diplomacy does not really work. I wrote a letter to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on Saturday, and I asked that, as soon as possible, his first actions include expressing the Hungarian government's objection to Slovakia, and, if necessary, the government will also offer the participation of Hungarian professionals, or to mention, if necessary, if Slovak professionals cannot find a solution to this problem. At these weekly meetings of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I will raise this issue to contact the Slovak Co-Committee. The most important thing here is that we can eliminate this contamination as soon as possible, but the fact is that there is also a need to address the issue of the fact that on the Hungarian side, on the government side, we do not have the bodies that can enforce Hungary's rights on these issues. I believe that there must be agreement on this issue, and this is obviously also a matter of sovereignty. Under these global circumstances and circumstances, we must do everything we can to preserve our natural resources, and we can also say, and I think it is agreed that the Carpathian Basin is not just a historical [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But it is also a natural unit that we must be able to act together to protect. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-17-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, Deputy Minister, responds. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for bringing this important matter to the walls of this House. On 13 March 2022, the Northern Hungary Water Management Directorate ordered a second-degree water quality alert from 10 a.m. To this end, Sajó's monitoring service, monitoring the state of water quality, ensuring the necessary water sampling and testing and immediate notification of water users are ongoing. They all happened. Since then, the organisation called ÉMVIZIG has been monitoring the status of the river ever since the order of the alert. Three places are continuously sampled: Sajópüspöki, Miskolc and Muhi. In addition, there was no mortality in the Hungarian section. The measurements took place last Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and on Friday there was a joint international sampling with the Slovak party. The next sample will be taken today. During the last period of the investigation, there was no strong, extraordinary discoloration in the Hungarian section of Sajó, although during the minor price waves due to more rainy weather conditions, Sajópüspöki's volume of floats increased occasionally as a result of the increase in water yield, thus the slight brownish discoloration of the water was also observed temporarily. No odor effects or foaming have been observed in the Hungarian river section, and no fish mortality has been observed. [[9.10]] I'd also like to inform you about the state of drinking water, if you don't mind. The government office, acting in the role of public health, is constantly monitoring the quality of drinking water, given that the drinking water base may be involved in two places, the Bőcs-Sajoládi Waterworks and the Eastern Peak Waterworks in Gestely. Both the official and the operator's laboratory tests show satisfactory results in the relevant drinking water service plants. These tests continue to be regular. To the Slovak side, because, indeed, it is here that on the Slovak section of the Sajó River there is contaminated water from the sub-store of the iron ore mine in Alsajó, which enters the Sajó River undiluted and untreated, and has indeed caused a serious ecological disaster in the Slovak section of the river, so cooperation between the Hungarian authorities and the Slovak party is important and continuous. Like I said, we're also doing joint samplings. We have asked Slovakia for written information on the state of play of the measures and we have also contacted the Slovak party on the issue of measurement results in Slovakia. In addition, the head of the Slovak branch of the Tisza and the tributary subcommittee of the Hungarian-Slovak Border Committee also contacted ÉMVIZIG in April and May in order to increase Rima's water flow from the Slovak reservoirs by providing dilution water, which can remedy the situation temporarily. It can be seen from the analysis of these data that the heavily loaded, also mentioned by you, is tens of kilometers from the Hungarian border in Sajó, and of course the contaminated water flowing there is diluted by trifluxes and ad hoc water replacements. Such pollution can no longer be detected at the Hungarian stage, but minor lesions and physical phenomena can, of course, also be observed in the Hungarian section. The water quality of Sajó is continuously monitored by technical measurements with pH, specific electrical conductivity, dissolved oxygen content, oxygen saturation, all meeting the limit values for the type of water flow. We maintain the necessary controls, the necessary water quality alert. There is continuous cooperation between the Hungarian and Slovak authorities. If we may add this, we ask and expect the Slovaks to cooperate on this issue. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-17-4	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Prior to the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, Head of the Group, Dialogue Group on Current Affairs, came forward. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-05-17-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Today, there is a serious livelihood crisis in Hungary, but there has been a growing degree of uncertainty and a growing gap in social differences. Less and less people have the security of long-term employment contracts, less and less people can be sure that six months, two years, five years, ten years from now will still have jobs. More and more people are slipping down, while the fidesz upper tens of thousands are piling up wealth, public property, in their private treasury at an incomprehensible pace. Moreover, the rise in prices is far ahead of increases in wages, pensions and social benefits. Inflation eats the incomes, the devastating price increases the lives of millions of Hungarians, making their livelihoods difficult. Even the figures of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office due to its politically motivated magicianism speak of 10 percent inflation, from 16 percent of food on an annual basis, but the more realistic calculations of economic portals say that it did not increase by 16 percent in a year, but it increased by 20 percent in 5 months the cost of an average shopping. This is what Hungarians face, this is the decade-long inflation record that we are facing today, and in a livelihood crisis caused by such inflation, we see that the government is inactive, the government is helpless, leaving people in trouble. The price cap system is not a solution. We need a much wider, more complex, stronger solution to deal with the livelihood crisis of everyday life. The problem is so bad, inflation is so severe that all means must be used to alleviate it. There is also a need to intervene on the side of prices and on the side of income. On the side of prices, VAT cuts are needed, as the opposition has said many times in the campaign, and people have supported it, but the government has not moved the staff of its ears: the cheapest, lowest VAT rate should be applied to a wide range of basic foods. We know that Fidesz has raised VAT to world record level, 27 percent, Fidesz is the one that collects ten times more income from people's purchases, such as the taxation of large companies, which is quite amazing, a tax haven for giant companies and a tax hell for ordinary people. But not only do we need to intervene on the side of prices, but also on the side of income, because there is also a income crisis, and in the meantime people have a fundamental expectation that the community, the political community, the state will guarantee everyone their basic livelihood. Three quarters of Hungarians agree with this idea. And the Dialogue has a solution to guarantee the safety of life, the basic income. We have been suggesting this since 2015, but this is the logic shown by the family allowance, which Fidesz has not raised with great care for children, and this is the logic of the basic pension, which we have already been able to convince the other opposition parties. I think the vast majority of people also understand that basic security goes through old age, goes through childhood, and we say that in such a livelihood crisis, this logic must be extended to all members of society. There has been a basic income for crisis management in Hungary, it was introduced by dialogue mayor Márta V. Naszályi in Budavár, and one of their State Secretarys said terribly that, of course, they didn't need it. Well, I would say that there are people in a difficult situation in every settlement and every district of Hungary, who can be helped in the livelihood crisis by supplementing their income to a hundred thousand forints, so I would like to see a little more sensitivity. We need this everywhere. It is no coincidence that a European citizens' initiative is still running for basic income. I recommend that you search for your website and support it, as basic income is a key to life security, a sure foundation, a predictable life and a key to economic and social success. But the basic income is not only a crisis management tool, but also part of a vision, part of the vision of green Hungary, which we dialogueists oppose the practice of Hungary in Orbán. Orbán Hungary is a money- and power-driven, green-Hungary is a man-centred country, and therefore it creates security, security and dignity for everyone. That is why we are proposing it, which is why we are calling for it, and that is why we are petitioning for the introduction of basic income in Hungary and preferably everywhere in Europe, which is a guarantee of a successful future and a peaceful, predictable, decent life. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-05-17-6	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond.
u2022-05-17-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, I also think it is important to talk about economic prospects, and in this matter, it is not irrelevant that, despite all the difficulties, the Hungarian economy is on a growing path, despite its war and epidemic difficulties. Last year's economic growth was 7 percent, and according to the latest quarterly data, the rate of economic growth is more than 8 percent and 8.2 percent. This is also an important weapon, or an important weapon, with a return to record during employment levels, with an unemployment rate of 3.6 per cent. Perhaps, if nothing else, we can agree that the number of people working in this country has a positive impact on income relations. I understand that, but I'm not happy that you don't support the price-stopping facility. Don't do it. It's not the right way. They say it's not a solution. I hear they're calling for a tax cut again. I would like to ask you one thing that I did yesterday: if you are in favour of VAT cuts, then why not vote for those when you have to vote here in Parliament? There have been countless decisions here in this House, and you have not supported it. I don't know for what reason, but they didn't support it. Coming here with the government cutting down on the VAT is a little crooked. As regards the issue of basic income, I would like to ask you to bring here well-functioning practices, not petitions, but examples that show that this works well, i.e. increased income levels while maintaining a high level of employment. He cannot refer to the Finnish example, because there he was introduced, he was led out because he had not fulfilled his expectations. [[9.20]] And one more thing: when it comes to economic issues, the future room for manoeuvre is essentially defined by what the war prospects are and what the European Union is making in terms of sanctions. Our goal is to reduce economic damage. I cannot ignore the fact that the left is completely wrong on the issue of energy sanctions. I am bringing this up because there has already been a huge increase in energy prices in the EU market, and sanctions would only put a shovel on it. I see that there is almost complete agreement on the other side of the horseshoe that these energy sanctions should be introduced, which hurt us just as much as Russia, if not more. Let me just make a low note, Mr President, that Russia has already made the amount of energy in the energy market by April of this year, as it did last year. The sanctions don't hurt them, but they do hurt us very much, and Europe does. For example, in Germany, restrictions on public lighting are planned in certain cities. Energy prices in Europe increased by more than 30 percent over a year. The oil embargo would do that again, and that's not a good way to go, and you support it. For example, they argue that the government is taking the Hungarians hostage with the veto of the oil embargo. Well, on the contrary, it would take the Hungarian economy hostage if these embargoes, these sanctions, were introduced without taking into account the fundamental circumstances of the Hungarian economy. 64 percent of our oil imports come from Russia, and we cannot, however much we would like to do, be replaced overnight. For example, you suggested in an interview that we get Norwegian oil instead sounds nice. It's as simple as that. Look, please, if we were to import oil from Norway, how much would it cost, what would be the extra cost? And tell them, please, where should we raise this extra cost, because in the piggy bank of Gergely Christmas there is hardly enough to cover it. Their man in Brussels, Benedek Jávor, also argues that energy sanctions should be introduced, because we have to pay the learner's money. No, you don't! It is not the Hungarians who have to pay for learning money, they have already paid enough, but those left-wing representatives who refuse to take into account the serious risk of these planned sanctions. We have already supported five sanctions packages, but the sixth one would cause serious damage. We do not accept this because it would cause serious supply disruptions, it would bring fuel prices of 700-800 forints, and then I did not even talk about the conversion costs of the 100-halombatta refinery, which are also large. So what you're proposing is good for big oil companies, it may be good for some rich states, but it's not good for the Hungarians. We do not know whose request you have to take this position, but one thing we ask is that you not have the Hungarians pay the price of the war, learn from the results of 3 April. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-17-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Szabadi István, Mi Hazank Group, spoke with the title 'Secureness of Life'. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-17-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, First of all, allow me to express my gratitude and thanks for the fact that the Our Hungary Movement can be here, and I can be here myself in the most beautiful house in the country, in the Hungarian Parliament. I trust and hope that, in addition to the necessary and constructive debates, all my fellow Members in Parliament, including myself, are working towards a peaceful, better and happier future for Hungary and the Hungarian people. I believe that no nobler, simpler and more serious purpose could be set within these noble walls. One of the foundations and even one of the most important foundations of this is security. I've come to the safety of our lives and our livelihoods. I have arrived at the safety of families and children, the safety of home, the safety of jobs and businesses, but also the security of wealth and human values, and the security of human rights, but also the security of affairs and administration. So it could continue indefinitely. I'm sure if a tiny thing weakens or weakens our sense of security, it will weaken our present and our future. Just a few examples: The Hungarian Movement is the only party that has talked and talked about the changes and economic consequences of globalist world power interests, and we are obviously not only on the brink of this, but also in it. One of the tools for this is Covid, which is causing the pandemic, but it is also very regrettable that the war next to us can be listed here. I think these are the events that can shake or shake our sense of security. An ordinary example is the issue of law enforcement, which is also a matter of national security. We've been through a number of cases, events, events, and events that suggest that the police don't seem to be doing their job right. Of course, the government communicates differently about this, but the fact that more and more people are leaving this course, and there are more who would like to leave this course, but it is very difficult to get out of the way for the civilian life, because they stay on the field at the cost of blackmail and threats, because this is how they try to hold back people who want to leave. That's what we're experiencing. A survey of the BRFK also shows that fewer and fewer young people are applying to police in Hungary; obviously it is not difficult to figure out why. After all, the low wage and the fact that Fidesz has taken away the possibility of a service pension is anything but tempting. But gun money doesn't solve the police's problem in the long run, not even in the short term. If the police have a problem, the Hungarian people have a problem. And that's because if there's no cop, they can't protect them from lynching, for example. Not long ago in Debrecen, there was an incident that almost repeated the incident in Olaszliska. It's only because of the luck and the help that's coming in quickly that there hasn't been another tragedy. But I could also describe the daily problems of people living on wages and salaries. Some say that the minimum wage is a huge achievement, which has been set, but I am convinced that if the minimum wage were 500 thousand forints in Hungary, it would not be enough, and that would also be a driving force. Family mothers, family fathers who are forced to work for a minimum wage or a small amount of money above it must support their families in poor conditions. The representatives of the Hungarian Movement sent over 300,000 people to Parliament because they already know, despite censorship and boycott, that we don't know taboos, and we'd rather sweep the problems from under the carpet than sweep them in there. That's what we signed up for, and that's why we're here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-17-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-05-17-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me, first of all, to thank the staff of the Hungarian police for the service they carry out for the safety of the Hungarian people, and as a result, we can say that Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe and the world. This is largely due to the staff of the police, and also to the fact that the Government of Hungary provides the necessary resources for the effective operation of the police annually in the annual budget. This also contributes to order and security in Hungary, since order is the most important community value, which determines the safety of our everyday lives, our daily livelihood. Allow me to present some concrete results to you and to the Honourable Parliament. In the course of the 2018-22 cycle, I had the opportunity to inform about this before the National Assembly on several occasions. [[9.30]] We can therefore say that, compared to 2010, the number of crimes that have become known in Hungary has fallen by more than half, so there has been a significant improvement in internal security. And in 2010, we set the goal of being a police officer in every Hungarian settlement, and we were able to achieve this goal, and the police personnel in every settlement are doing everything they can, taking decisive action against every criminal for the safety of the Hungarian people. I would also like to point out that not only domestic security has improved over the last 12 years, but also efforts to combat the migration crisis that started in 2015 and to protect Hungary's borders, the security of Hungary, the southern border, have been made by the police, making effective efforts to recognise the safe conditions in Hungary throughout the world, that Hungary is a safe country and that the Hungarian police defend the southern border, that is what they have done or are doing in conjunction with the defence and using the laws adopted in Parliament. So Homeland Security has also improved, borders and southern borders are protected by the police, and police have played an important role in the fight against the coronal virus epidemic that started two years ago. I also think that these three successful tasks contribute to Hungary's security. I don't know if I've taken it out of your words, as if you're happy there aren't enough policemen. Honourable Member, I would also like to assure you and the Honourable Parliament that police personnel can carry out their duties and achieve better results. As a result of the government's decision, at the beginning of the year, the police received six months' arms money, then at the beginning of the year there was a 10 percent increase in salaries, and the government provided the necessary resources for the operation of the police in 2022 and 2023. Honourable Congressman, If you really care so much about the safety of the Hungarian people, providing the police with the right means, then I would ask that the government's proposals on the budget, which serve this, be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-17-12	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group, spoke on the topic of current issues. You're the word, Congresswoman.
u2022-05-17-13	Thank you very much. Dear House, With the restructuring of health care, the government finally recognises the problems of so far's management, but the lack of an independent Ministry of Health hinders development and the waiting lists remain long. For example, disease prevention and, in particular, screening will be the tasks that the least attention and resources will be given to internal health care, even though early detection of diseases can save lives and reduce the suffering of our sick fellow citizens. And this is especially true in the area of the detection of cancer. While the government continues to praise the effectiveness of anticancer action, Hungary has unfortunately been among the first deaths in the European Union due to cancers for years and, unfortunately, there is no significant improvement. The most significant cancers are lung and colon cancer, and breast cancer in women of non-specific disease types, and prostate cancer in men, which are not only the most common cancers, but also one of the leading deaths, while these cancers in women, together with cervical cancer, are types of diseases where early recognition radically increases the chance of healing from medical data. The cervical cancer screening tests introduced under the Socialist Government have reduced the resulting mortality by more than a quarter over ten years. So prevention works. The screening tests are working. However, during the coronal virus epidemic, a number of health interventions were missing, and many Hungarians did not have access to screening tests, including various cancer screenings and I am talking about the ordinary person, those who do not belong to the elite, which is enriched with hyperspeed. The average person is unable to pay for tests and screenings provided by expensive private health, for them only the free prevention programme provided by public health and free screening, if they do not get this, then there will soon be a mass outbreak of cancers that are difficult or impossible to cure due to late detection. We therefore ask that the government start a comprehensive health prevention immediately. I remember, of course, the filter buses that went through the country, which I think was a very good idea - the government, by the way, speed up existing screening programmes and increase their capacity to try to replace the tests that have not been carried out during the pandemic; the government, with which it is able to increase its willingness to carry out screening tests, is extremely important. And we continue to say, as experts who are independent of politics say, that the state of health in Hungary and the state of health of our fellow Hungarian citizens require the establishment of an independent Ministry of Health, where they really do care about people's health and only about it. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in his campaign and inauguration that the lives of Hungarian people are important to him. Let's hope... [[Bence Dömötör Csaba Rétvári will coordinate.]] Let us hope that this will also be seen in your actions, because the lack of a separate Ministry of Health... [[As regards Bencé Rétvári, who consulted Csaba Dömötör:]] It's a bad omen. I would like to point out that we owe only thanks to health workers, because their sacrifice is the reason why the sector is able to function at all. And please don't pretend, Mr. Secretary, that they're being criticized by anyone. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-05-17-14	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If I can start by reacting to your last sentence, you will no longer be sitting in your ranks, Lajos Korózs. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita:]] Lajos Korózs Kamuvideos, who, during the epidemic, dealt with the introduction of a man who was neither a hero nor a paramedic, who said that the Hungarian doctors and the Hungarian nurses sent people home from the hospital who needed hospital treatment, and that people died. If, at some point in an extremely critical time, during the period of the epidemic, people were able to destroy confidence in health care, for example, with such videos, and you in the party had no consequences, nothing, but stood up for Lajos Korózs. So when you talk about it, honourable Member, who has done what to appreciate health workers, it is worth looking back on, or perhaps, as their own health ministers have sometimes talked about doctors, nurses, hospitals. I believe that in the fight against the epidemic, Hungarian health workers, doctors and nurses have demonstrated that they have been able to defend themselves at least at the same level as the European average, and that if we look at the additional mortality indicators for last year, the year before last, we can see that Hungary was more successful than the EU average, because last year we had the same additional mortality indicators that reached the EU average for almost minutes, which were much more favourable in the previous year, so thank you all. And it is due to their work that, compared to other countries, such as England, screening tests themselves had to pause for much less time, in other countries for many, many months, in total for two months, in some cases for two weeks in order not to spread the coronal virus infection there, and therefore they can be imported faster than before. [[9.40]] But as far as screening is concerned, this is a matter of absolute importance beyond party policy, and I think we can all be proud of the results we have achieved. The most important innovation in this was screening for prevention of colon cancer for target groups aged between 50 and 70 years. Here, as I say, this is a whole new thing, we have just introduced over 1.2 million invitations in recent years, and 338 071 of the 1.2 million invited received the package in which the sample could be delivered. 295 539 persons, so 87 percent of the recipients have already sent the sample to the National Public Health Centre. 87.5 percent, 249 thousand with negative results, they got this. It was not a negative result for 27,427 people, 15,353 of whom had already had a colonoscopy, of which 8395 had cancer prevention status, and 5175 people, or more than 1534 people, because they found malignant lesions, so they started treatment there. So here, perhaps in time for thousands of people, you have actually mentioned one of the most common causes of death, rectal cancer, so that you may be able to preserve their lives and live for decades for the joy of their children and grandchildren. We hope that this study can be very successful in the future, and in many cases it can prevent a more advanced stage of cancer. It is also very important to consider vaccinations, that in 2014, HPV vaccinations were also made free, first for girls 12 years of age and then for boys, so there is a level of grafting in Hungary far above WHO's expectations. We continued to expand the vaccinations: from 2017 onwards we made the vaccination against Meningococcus C free, we offered the vaccination against Meningococcus C, and we are also among the leading countries in Europe; from 2019 we introduced vaccination against chickenpox as a compulsory vaccination; and in recent years we have made influenza vaccines free. This shows that what we have done in prevention over the last few years, from 2014 to today, is exemplary in Europe. We can list few European countries where so many free vaccines are available, and we can see few countries where they would be this advanced not only in the screening studies, but also in the case of previous breast screening, cervical screening, but also in the case of colon and rectal cancer screening. Our joint task, as I said, was to return 25 percent of the people invited here. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The higher the ratio, the higher the ratio, the longer the life expectancy in health is expected to be. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-17-16	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr Lajos Löcsei, Momentum Group, asked for the title of Roma integration. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, My mother told me to stay human under all circumstances. It's not easy, but it's a very necessary warning, and I'll be working accordingly for the next four years. I also congratulate all my fellow Members, regardless of political affiliation. I wish Hungary strength, health and humility for the construction of our common country. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to look at equal opportunities a little differently. To be able to talk about this topic in substance, imagine yourself in the skin of a disadvantaged teenage youth who doesn't have a nursery, who doesn't have water, gas, parents are uneducated, public workers, and they live in a segment in a falling settlement, and they're not tan in the burning sun, they're just as gypsy people as I am. What chance would they give you if they had to break out of such an environment, gain a profession, or even go to a university? Believe me, my fellow Members, it is a very difficult, sometimes hopeless road that leads there. I know because I started out in a similar environment. For me, my gypsyism has been a disadvantage and discrimination all my life. My whole life has been about how the majority society should meet, and my whole life has been about how I have to prove that I am as Hungarian as my fellow Members feel that they are Hungarian. That is why I say that without compassion we cannot talk about equal opportunities, and I say that this is not the way to run a country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, In the last 12 years, the social rise of disadvantaged young people has not been substantially supported. I'd like to give you some information about this. In Hungary, the proportion of disadvantaged people in higher education is only 1.4 percent, and the proportion of Roma is less than 0.8 percent. The rate of early school leavers in Nógrád county is 30 percent, in Borsod and Baranya county 20 percent. This means that this proportion of young people in these counties have not even graduated from high school. More and more Roma and non-Roma young people are falling out of the education system as functional illiterates, and if only the medium- and long-term goal of becoming Europe's assembly plant is to rethink education. In my opinion, many athletes, scientists, statesmen and professionals have been born and live to this day in the Gypsy settlements in Hungary, but because of the lack of interest in their country, they cannot become so, because the moral lack and social insensitivity of the Hungarian political elite has judged poor people to the margins of society for generations. That is why I would like the reduction programmes to be given much more emphasis in the coming period. That is why I was pleased to learn that the Corvinus University leadership thought that it was launching an equal opportunities programme. They thought very, very well, I am very pleased with the initiative. The Illyés Gyula programme provides scholarship and mentoring for disadvantaged graduates. At the same time, it makes me sad as if they want to put out fire with a fire extinguisher, trying to help only ten young people. I consider this to be an extremely narrow position of a university with such material and professional resources and its indifference to the success of Roma integration. Ladies and gentlemen, Corvinus University has a budget of nearly HUF 25 billion in 2022. The possession of such public wealth does make Corvinus University responsible for helping young people with disadvantaged chances. Therefore, in a letter, I asked Prof. Dr. Takáts, Rector of Corvinus University, to review the number of people announced, to start the program with at least two hundred young people and to make it as public as possible. I would also like to ask the rector to finally reply to my letter and to reply to my proposal. And I would like to call on the pro-government colleagues to include in the legislative framework in the future the establishment of an equal opportunities programme for universities that have received state assets in the framework of a model change. I hope I can count on your support through your conscience and your patriotism. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-05-17-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I was pleased to hear the first sentences of his comment, which showed his good intentions and his will to do. I trust that, in his work in Parliament, he actually supports the objectives he has set. Dear Parliament, The government adopted the document "The National Social Catch-up Strategy for Hungary 2030" which sets out strategic directions for the population living in poverty, especially for families with children and the well-being and social inclusion of the Roma population. The strategy also aims to strengthen labour market integration, access to employment, the employment authority, improve access to chance-creating education, health services, reduce territorial inequalities, improve environmental and housing conditions. In order to implement this, three-year action plans are being drawn up, where the main cooperation and partnership forums of the catch-up policy have been established at national level, in which the Roma and non-Roma are represented: Intergovernmental Committee on Social Catch-up and Gypsy Affairs, Roma Coordination Council. EU catch-up improvements for 2021-27 are based on the targets of the catch-up strategy 2030. [[9.50]] Many interventions are aimed at improving the well-being of children and households with children, the positive effects of which are already evident. It should be pointed out that the proportion of people living in poverty among the most vulnerable social groups, young people and children, under 17 years of age, shows a significant improvement. Since 2013, the proportion of children living in households without employment has fallen by just a third, with an increase in employment rates among the Roma population, twice as many Roma workers as before 2010. The employment of Roma women has tripled since before 2010, honourable Member. Roma women with the worst employment indicators in the Roma are supported by a training programme embedded in employment, which has so far provided employment for more than 1700 people. The percentage of those who are still employed exceeds 70 percent. At the earliest age, they help to develop the children's homes, 140 children's houses from domestic national sources, creating a chance for the development of 2500 people per day. Currently 183 schools operate with domestic budget funding, the schools help 5500 children every year on average. All children under the age of three can go to kindergarten and receive four free meals a day. The scholarship for the trip gives incentives to tens of thousands of disadvantaged students each year. The Travel to the Graduate grant gives more than 600 disadvantaged university students the opportunity to study at the university each year. In the 11 Roma schools set up by the government in 2011, 350 disadvantaged Roma young people live and learn each year and receive scholarships. More than 500 people have already obtained their degrees, and they work in prestigious professions. Honourable Congressman, I ask you that if you are serious about the goals you have set, and I trust that this is the case, then let us work together to bring these goals to fruition, to raise the Roma and to improve the living conditions of disadvantaged people. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-17-20	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Zoltán Sas, Jobbik Group, spoke with a title on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-17-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I recently had a weekly paper in my hand, and I saw two job ads on one side. One was the job ad of a multinational trading company, and the other was the recruiter of a law enforcement agency. I had to experience that a law enforcement officer could work for far less than a trader. Of course, the aim of my speech is not how much a seller or charger makes, because they are not overpaid, and I know that from the national economy's point of view the provision of society is a priority, so the sale of consumer goods and the carrying out of the related tasks are in the national economy's interest, so thanks to the workers. The aim of my speech is to draw attention to the fact that a beginner police patrol takes home roughly HUF 156 thousand net per month, which I believe is extremely small. At present, in terms of rental prices in the capital real estate market, a small apartment may have enough to rent a month. But what's even scarier is that the purchasing power of this salary is enough to buy 30 meters of 40 times 40 in total per month, which means that a policeman's daily salary is 1 meter of 4 cents of iron. I think there's a lot to build on, but there's no family, and the question I'm asking myself is that this is really what a police officer's job is worth. I don't think so. I think it's worth a lot more than that. The truth also includes the increase in the salary of those under 25 who are entitled to it, which is a significant help thanks for it. Of course, I do not wish to conceal the money of arms, nor its effects, because, on the one hand, due to the size of the amount, it is a significant help to the workers; on the other hand, it has also caused internal tensions, because not all personnel have benefited from it, but the Rias. staff have not received it, and on the other hand, the lack of differentiation has adversely affected the deputy staff. The situation of law enforcement is also made more difficult by the increasing shortage of staff, which is obviously also linked to the low level of salaries. A decommissioning wave may be significant in the event of an emergency. However, the current legislation delays this event. It would be fortunate to make use of this time to develop viable action plans that reduce the number of career leavings and significantly improve their commitment to the police profession among young people who are starting to take up their careers without delay. Dear fellow Members, I am not looking for a responsible, faulty, or scapegoat, but a solution; a solution to significantly and immediately improve the salary of police officers and, in particular, deputy officers in the public service. The law enforcement salary has been HUF 38 650 since 2008, i.e. for 14 years. I am convinced that an increase in this amount is a proposal that everyone can support, on my part as a central right national politician, in any case. I respectfully ask: are you planning to increase the law enforcement salary base in the near future, or are you planning to introduce additional measures that will partly make the profession more attractive, and partly reduce the number of leavers, such as improving housing issues? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2022-05-17-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, A short time ago, I had the opportunity to express my appreciation and appreciation for the successful and superhuman services of the Hungarian police personnel in order to protect domestic security, borders, southern borders and combat the Covid epidemic, or even to carry out police work in connection with the war in our neighbourhood. Thank you for the staff of the Hungarian police. I think that they are performing their task in a way that deserves recognition both in the country and in the world, and on which I say that Hungary is a safe country, and I think that it is recognised in the European Union and in the world, and we all perceive the positive effects of this. Allow me, Mr President, to point out that on 1 July 2015 a career model was launched, which was fully implemented until 2019, and that the Ministry of Interior and the police's leadership will continue to see clearly that this new challenge, or this performance, is worthy of recognition for police personnel, is seeking and seeking solutions to achieve this. I am referring not only to gun money, but also to the fact that at the end of 2019 the police received a HUF 500,000 allowance. You remember, perhaps you remember, Congressman, that this has happened. Now, at the beginning of the year, six months' arms money has been handed to the police personnel, and I think it was a good decision, and we can experience a good echo of it. I also mentioned the 10 percent salary increase that the police received at the beginning of the year. Allow me also to talk about benchmarking, which is happening regularly every year, and this is also a significant financial benefit for police personnel, which applies to previous periods and also to this year. I would also like to point out that it also provides housing support, nearly HUF 3 billion in support or resources for years, and that the annual budget has been very important and has improved its effectiveness, that the financing of the police has changed significantly over the past 12 years, that the situations that led to the debt have ceased, that the police budget support has been stable and that it is still stable. [[10.00]] The fleet of motor vehicles has been substantially replaced, and the police have a fleet of vehicles that is now essential for effective work. Of course, these must be continued, because it cannot be stopped, because otherwise criminals always try to walk one step ahead of us. I think that over the last 12 years we have shown that they have failed and that we have achieved significant results in order to improve internal security. I spoke about this in my previous comment. I trust that the wave of disarmament that you predicted or predicted will not come true. We know that it is important, whether for patrols or for other parts of the staff, to further increase the forms of financial recognition, the wage benefits that help to recognise the work of the staff. We are confident that we will find the resources for this in the next cycle. I ask you, if you consider this to be important, to support these in the vote on the budget and in the adoption of the laws that provide for it, with a button. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-17-24	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, Member of the KDNP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-17-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, You'd think that after getting to know the results of the 3 April elections, every political community would do their homework. From our point of view, we are analysing why we have been entrusted with such a great mandate by voters, and on the left, perhaps it would have been worth an analysis of what caused the loss. However, since yesterday, it seems that even this historic defeat was not enough for you to really look into yourselves and examine yourself. And what do we see instead? What we're seeing is that your Prime Minister candidate continues to blame the voters for the nasty defeat. In fact, yesterday their real leader Ferenc Gyurcsány comes in here, and he goes all the way to saying that the entire Hungarian democracy, the entire electoral system, is illegal. In itself, this idea is the idea that weakens Hungarian democracy, but it is very picant to hear it from Ferenc Gyurcsány. Ferenc Gyurcsány told us about this democracy criticism, who, in the last 32 years since the change of regime, has uniquely turned the Hungarian police against the Hungarian people. And all of this is quite spicy from Ferenc Gyurcsány, who, after winning an election, secretly confesses to his comrades that he has deceived the voters, he has won an election by cheating. And once that's out there, there's no consequence. And this man comes here today and talks about lawlessness and immorality; despite the fact that he was the one who encouraged the supporters and supporters of the left to go to every electoral district so that there would be no electoral abuse. More than 20,000 people went there, they said that the Hungarian election was democratic, but it doesn't seem to interfere with Ferenc Gyurcsány's clarity, he comes here and shows you direction. There is still no cooperation, no thinking for any country; it is only the total attack of the Fidesz-KDNP and the national thought that has been assigned to you. And they are also proud to work for their jobs, here in Parliament, as we can see now. In fact, they have a fellow Member who doesn't take the oath and tells us in an interview that when he takes the oath, he won't be able to come to his work. 32 years ago, his comrades would probably have called him a famous menace. And all of this is incredibly irresponsible, because Hungary is facing extraordinary challenges. Our neighbor is at war, there's an economic crisis knocking on the door, and the energy crisis is already raging in Western Europe. According to all experts, this will sooner or later turn into an economic crisis, and in this difficult situation, the most important experience of a thousand years of Hungarian history is that we must unite. In this case, all forces must be joined together in order to strengthen the nation, and this also gives you responsibility, honourable left-wing Members, despite the fact that you have not been entrusted by the voters with the possibility of governance. On the other hand, you're playing tricks, creating more factions with fewer representatives just to get more money and not come to work at your workplace. You should know that in such a difficult situation, stability, unity are virtue and gold. And yet they do nothing to promote the peace and security of the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian people. Therefore, my honourable left-wing colleagues who are in there, I ask you not to follow Ferenc Gyurcsány's guidelines yesterday after the fourth two-thirds of the time and participate in strengthening the Hungarian nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-17-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The Parliamentary Act, which was adopted in 2012 by the House, describes the rights and obligations of Members of Parliament under Rule 28 of the Act on the Rights and Obligations of Members of Parliament. In its section, the right and duty of the Member to take the initiative in the work of the Parliament should facilitate its effective functioning. It is his duty to attend the meetings of the Parliament and the meetings of the parliamentary committee of which he is a member. The Member shall be required to be present in the votes of the Parliament. It is no coincidence that the opposition did not adopt this law at that time. Perhaps they were already prepared to break the parliamentary law, to violate it. This, as we know, does not mean that laws do not apply to those who do not want to comply. So it is not simply a moral or political duty for Members of Parliament to participate in the work of Parliament, but it is required by both the Fundamental Law and the Parliamentary Act. The opposition representatives are wrong, I see, because they are trying to assess the number of Parliaments before the agenda, in fact, the agendas will only begin now, on which it is mandatory for Members of Parliament to participate. I hope they're gonna keep that up. Of course, the case of Parliament is not a matter of the government, the participation of Members of Parliament in votes is not a matter of the government. Members of the Parliament have all taken an oath and are all responsible to the electorate. However, I believe that what was said yesterday was a very serious sentence and a very serious statement, although it was not the first time that it was said that Ferenc Gyurcsány or the Gyurcsány Party considered the government illegal, and that the members of the Gyurcsány Party considered the government illegal. This attitude suggests that it is likely that they are preparing for lawlessness against the government. They believe that they are ideologically trying to establish this by viewing the government itself as illegal. We have seen this before, because in recent years, Gyurcsányist lawyers have explained to us that there is no need to take into account the provisions of the Fundamental Law, no need to take into account the two-thirds vote. Gyurcsányist lawyers tried to create ideology for how to violate laws. I think that's what's happening right now. I should not be right; I should not be right, but what is happening now is that they intend to prepare an expected illegal opposition attitude by treating the government as illegitimate. [[10.10]] However, the Hungarian voters decided on the Parliament and the members of the government. The attitude of opposition representatives to regard their own mandates as legitimate and, of course, the mandate of their opponents is not considered lawful is unacceptable. I do not think that this is even fair competition rules, let alone the relationship between the members of a parliamentary assembly elected in elections. When the Parliament decided to justify the mandate of the Members, it confirmed everyone's mandate, those elected by the people, no matter what we think of each other and what we think of opposing policies. Then, in addition to what the congressman said yesterday, "Look who's talking." From the mouth of Ferenc Gyurcsány how the accusation of lawlessness sounds, I believe that there is no other basis, there is no other explanation but that the Gyurcsány party is preparing for lawlessness with the government or even with the state. I would like to point out once again that I wish I was wrong, and I hope that time will not justify me. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-17-28	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, the Fidesz Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-17-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The war has been going on for over 80 days in Ukraine. This war wasn't supposed to happen. The attack on the neighbouring country must be condemned, and all humanitarian aid must be given to people who have left their country behind. Hungary is also performing outstandingly in this regard, since Hungary has, in terms of the number of refugees received in recent months, assumed the greatest burden in proportion to its population. I think that we can all be proud of this performance and thank everyone involved in this action. We almost didn't recover from the epidemic when the war broke out as another global threat. As a result, prices are rising across Europe and unfortunately there is a serious energy crisis. This is a serious test for European economies, including the Hungarian economy. The whole continent, and we can say the whole world, is hit by increasing inflation, which is driven by war and failed Brussels sanctions policy. As a result, the price level of fuels per litre reached around 900 HUF in Western Europe. The Hungarian families are protected from the effects of war by several measures taken by the government. Such is the reduction of the rent, the retail interest rate stop, the fuel price and the food price stop. As regards the fuel stop, it is important to note that Hungary does not support a Brussels sanction package with which it is not possible to guarantee the country's security of energy supply. The energy supply requires oil and gas sources, as well as the pipelines that deliver it here. The geographical location of the country, transport routes and the location and availability of oil and gas fields determine the security of Hungary's energy supply. The current proposal in Brussels, ladies and gentlemen, is the equivalent of a nuclear bomb dropped on the Hungarian economy. This atomic bomb would halt the outstanding growth that the Hungarian economy continued in the first quarter of 2022 with its 8 percent growth. This, like last year's level of economic growth, is of paramount importance in Europe. Brussels' proposal would destroy Hungary's stable energy supply, and if it were adopted, the purchase of oil necessary for the operation of the Hungarian economy would simply be impossible. Brussels sanctions plans for the energy sector are also problematic because there are currently no alternative transport routes, and we can only buy through Russia on existing pipelines, and technologically we can only process oil from there at the moment. The adoption of the Brussels package would bring a gas oil price of 700 forints and 800 forints in Hungary. It takes 4-5 years to replace Russian oil, while the war is now. In addition, a thousand billion dollars of investment would be needed, and despite the EU's spending on it, it is only on paper, because no agreement has yet been reached. At the end of the whole process, we could buy oil and produce fuel more expensively than the current price, which would significantly burden the Hungarian economy and Hungarian people alike. The government's decisions to protect families have been brought to order by the left. It would be worth choosing a new approach and finally taking the side of the Hungarian people. Of course, ensuring energy supply and maintaining the reduction of the overhead is still our priority. This is conditional on oil and natural gas, and Brussels does not adopt sanctions that will put the gate in front of imports. We will not vote for any measures that threaten domestic energy supply, this is not a political issue, but also a question of security of supply and even national security. The oil embargo is a red line for us. We cannot allow the price of war to be paid by the Hungarian people. As opposed to the press announcements on Friday, Brussels has confirmed that it will continue to support the oil embargo's plan. Until an acceptable proposal is made to resolve the Hungarian energy supply, we cannot give the green light to further sanctions. We also ask the left to stand on the side of Brussels, not on the side of Brussels, but on the side of the Hungarian people, to look at the interests of Hungary, because we have all sworn to do so to serve Hungary and the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-17-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Parliamentary Secretary Péter Sztáray wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-05-17-31	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He raised the most pressing questions, so I would like to answer briefly, first of all by stressing that Hungary is doing everything to ensure that the constantly expanding European sanctions against Russia do not jeopardise the energy supply of our country. In Hungary, energy supply is a security, sovereignty and economic issue, not a political one. At all relevant negotiations, we stress that this is not a political decision on our part, but an economic, technological, social necessity. Hungary cannot support the sixth EU sanction package, which targets the entire Russian oilman. In its current form, the sanction package undermines not only Hungary's energy security but also the unity of the European Union in response to the Ukrainian invasion. The sixth sanction package goes far beyond the EU consensus, and if the European Commission insists on adopting its proposal, it must also take full responsibility for the undermining of European unity and for the historic failure of European integration. Due to the proposed sanctions, Hungary would need a significant modernisation of the alternative supply infrastructure and a complete restructuring of our refinery capacities. This would take a long time and require investments that are unnecessary and will not be reimbursed and cannot therefore be financed on a market basis. In the framework of the sixth EU sanction package, the decoupling of Russian oil and the refinery transition alone would cost Hungary at least EUR 550 million for various investments. In addition, in Croatia the capacity of the Adria oil pipeline should be increased, which would cost an additional EUR 200 million, not to mention that this infrastructure investment is otherwise outside the Hungarian jurisdiction. After these investments were carried out, Hungarian fuel prices would increase by at least 55-60 percent, which would generate a wide and extraordinary price increase in all areas. The European Commission has caused a problem. This proposal, which is on the table, does not facilitate the solution. The Hungarian people, the Hungarian society, have the right to make a proposal for a solution to finance investments and to compensate or prevent price increases. To do this, the entire Hungarian energy mix would need to be redesigned, and this would require spending in the order of 15-18 billion euros. We have proposed that the European Union, if it wishes to introduce an oil embargo, grant an exemption for pipeline transport. This would also be the easiest solution to satisfy the interests of Brussels on the one hand and, on the other hand, not putting countries that receive oil by pipeline in an extremely difficult or unsuitable situation. [[10.20]] At yesterday's EU Foreign Minister meeting, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, held a special meeting with the Head of Foreign Affairs Council, Josep Borrell. At the same time, Minister, he said that Hungary can live with this package of proposals if there is an exception to pipeline transport. By the way, I stress that Hungary is not the only one with objections to the European Commission's oil embargo proposal, it is enough to think only of neighbouring countries, such as Slovakia. In addition, some countries in south-eastern Europe, such as Greece, Malta or Cyprus, also dispute the ban on external transport of Russian oil to third countries. Therefore, I would like to emphasise once again, from a Hungarian point of view, since the President of the European Commission has been to Budapest, we have not received a substantive proposal for a solution. And until the Commission has found a solution to the problem of Hungary and the countries of the region, I can reassure you that there will be no progress in the oil embargo case, and that is also made clear to our EU partners. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-17-32	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal to list the ministries of Hungary follows in an exceptional procedure. Presentation by Viktor Orbán, Fidesz, Zsolt Semjén, KDNP, Máté Kocsis, Fidesz, István Simicskó, KDNP, and Imre Vejkey, KDNP, Members T/47. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the Member that he has a total time frame of 25 minutes for the opening speech, for his further speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-05-17-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One of the first and perhaps one of the most important decisions of each parliamentary term is the Law on the List of Ministries. It's no different this time. The parliamentary elections took place on 3 April. This results in a clear mandate and a clear mandate for the governing party association that has received the absolute majority of the votes, and even more. This is also the result of the responsibility of government formation, and we intend to fulfil this task this time. It has already been said in this House that so many people have never voted for a party or party alliance since 1990, and this does not weaken the responsibility of the government and the governing parties, but only makes it harder, exacerbates or enlarges how they like it. It was also revealed on 3 April that the Hungarian people decided to promote civil governance; while maintaining peace and security, they decided to support families, reduce the rent and taxes, and to keep them, and to keep the rent cut. In our view, as the main themes of the campaign were mentioned above, this is why the new two-thirds mandate is also about this, and these must also be taken into account when designing the operational structure of the new government, as well as the challenges and tasks of the period ahead of Hungary. These must be taken as a basis, since, as Prime Minister said, the most important aspect of any government formation is to have a government that, over the next four years, manages the problems that can be detected today, putting the challenges and tasks of the period ahead on a good footing and providing good answers to them. It is also necessary to mention here what was also a key topic of the parliamentary election campaign. We live here in Hungary, we live here in Europe, and we live on the planet Earth, which is why we perceive the world around us, and it is not difficult to see that European people are waiting for years, a decade that presents many challenges that are not yet known. I would like to remind you that, in 2015, in July 2015, it was an unknown term for many Hungarians to think that it was illegal migration, and then, after a month, it set the whole of Europe on fire in both the strict and the figurative sense of the word. Then, at the beginning of 2020, there was a completely unknown term for pandemics or pandemics; we didn't really use it, and then overnight, he started taking his victims around the world. And after Hungary, Europe and the world met this challenge, then the war broke out. And the situation is different from that of us to the West, in that, I think, there is agreement that the Ukrainian-Russian or Russian-Ukrainian war will look different from Zahony, from Strasbourg or Brussels, which is why in Hungary this will also have to be given special attention. I would like to say to you here, for the most part, in order to avoid any debate, that the Fidesz and the Christian Democrats' Party Alliance condemn Russian aggression; we condemn military action, but we believe that participation in and interference with war is no solution. It is in our interest, we Hungarians here in Hungary, to stay out of the armed conflict; and it is our duty to participate in humanitarian tasks. In this situation, the security of the Hungarian people is the second most important task of helping people fleeing the first and the war, and I think that when we talk about the new governance structure, this too, as one of the most important pillars of the electoral will, should be at the centre of attention. The war has also marked the European economy, and energy prices have been unleashed in many places in a European country where they have tripled or quadrupled, inflation has increased significantly. From the effects of inflation, Hungarian people are primarily protected by the reduction of the rent, the fuel price and the food price stop, and we believe that in the 3 April elections the Hungarians also took the view that the government should either maintain or stand up for measures to protect against inflation, including European debates, in all circumstances. The new governance structure should be able to protect Hungary effectively against these known and unknown dangers and to ensure the safety of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. The structure of the government is proposed to change accordingly compared to the previous cycle, following these objectives and responding to global threats. On the basis of our proposal, the new government would be formed with the following ministries: Agricultural Ministry, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Construction and Investment, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Culture and Innovation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, Prime Minister's Office, Ministry of Finance and Technology and Industry. Perhaps it is worth explaining in some sentences the elements of the proposal. Throughout history, it has been proven that Hungary is not successful without successful agriculture. The sector has always played a strategic role in economic and social stability, but now this sector is facing unprecedented challenges and needs to be met by the actors in agriculture in circumstances that may not have been experienced before. [[10.30]] If you recall, the corona virus epidemic or the hardships resulting from the change of weather, the world market price rise, the increase in energy, and a long list, created a sharp situation, which, by the way, is aggravated by the Russian-Ukrainian war. In this situation, it is important to establish a government or an Agricultural Ministry that prioritises the provision of domestic food supply, the maintenance of agricultural competitiveness and, in addition, gives due attention and care to ensure quality. On 3 April, the Hungarian people took a stand for peace. As I have just said, in our firm and steadfast position, Hungary must stay out of the war, but it must participate in humanitarian action, so that one of the most important tasks of the new government will be to preserve this peace and security. To this end, the work organisation of both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence and the Prime Minister must be strengthened. This will also justify the proposals for restructuring between law enforcement organisations, which have already been discussed in the press. In our view, these changes will help Hungary to enforce the interests of peace and security that we have just said at all forums. The results of recent years have demonstrated that the decision to treat the foreign economy and foreign affairs as one unit or as one task is correct, so that Hungarian interests can be enforced most effectively here too, so the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade needs essentially the same form. The Ministry of Justice will continue to be responsible for the legislation and the tasks it has been responsible for. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] That was in your government, Mr Arató, when opposition representatives at the time [[Gergely Arató: When the Minister of Justice was taken away! The president's ringing the bell.]] For example, Lajos Kósa, the Speaker or today's Prime Minister on behalf of Ferenc Gyurcsány and György Szilvásy István Laborc have been observed. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes! That's right.]] So please hear me out, because it's going to be on the wall again. [[Dr. László György Lukács: In your time we were observed! Nacsa Lőrinc: How are you protecting him? Dr. László György Lukács: I'm not defending you, I just...]] The Ministry of Construction and Investment will be set up. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , Ministry of Culture and Innovation. Otherwise, in this wallet, questions about the future come together if you look one step further, and here will be the tasks of a XXI. They are also necessary for the implementation of social policy in the 20th century. Since this is also one of the interests of Hungary, we believe that it is necessary to carry out this task on its own; and so is the Ministry of Technology and Industry, which is perhaps comparable, changed or extended to the former ITM. Domestic industrial development contributes to ensuring Hungary's self-sufficiency and economic competitiveness. This government structure, according to our conviction, as I explained above, meets the electoral expectations set by the Hungarians on 3 April, meets the interests of the Hungarian nation, meets the interests of meeting the challenges facing Hungary, and meets the changes that take place in the world. Obviously, this is a structure, largely dependent on who and what tasks we can fill this structure with, but I think that we have not been able to propose a better governance structure, knowing the current political, social and European economic environment. Therefore, I ask you to accept this and with your support to ensure that the government is established. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-17-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform Mr Group Leader that there are 12 minutes for further speeches and 12 minutes for closing. Dear Parliament, I ask that on behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán wishes to speak now or later.
u2022-05-17-35	Later, thank you very much.
u2022-05-17-36	Mr Deputy Minister indicates that he wishes to speak later. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman David Héjj, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
u2022-05-17-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee held on 16 May 2022, T/47 on the list of the ministries of Hungary was discussed. Bill No. 1. The summary report was adopted by the Committee on the basis of an exceptional procedure, with 26 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear House, There is a war going on in our neighbourhood, with serious consequences for Europe as a whole. Unfortunately, the negative effects of the war have a direct impact on everyone's lives, affecting every single Hungarian's life; it is enough to think about ever-increasing global energy prices or economic recession. On 3 April, the Hungarian electorate made a clear and clear decision on the need for a leader and a government best suited to respond to the challenges facing the country. In view of all this, the future new government must take decisions to protect our country from negative external effects, to counter the economic recession, and at the same time to respond to the crisis issues that allow Hungary to preserve the results achieved in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, In line with the previous traditions of the civil side, it is now forming a government to conduct its composition and structure from the four years ahead. Article 17 (1) of the Fundamental Law states that the list of ministries is provided for by law. In compliance with this constitutional obligation under the Fundamental Law, the bill before us lists the ministries of Hungary. The bill submitted is 1. Article 2 of the Act proposes the setting up of eleven ministries. § 2 states that the Prime Minister's working organisation is the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, which is part of the Government Office of the Prime Minister as a government administration. I can only stress that in the period ahead, we must take decisions to protect Hungary from external negative effects and the negative effects of the economic recession. In view of this, the bill should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-17-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have a total time frame of 8 minutes. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Láng, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-17-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Máté Kocsis, the rapporteur, explained in detail a few minutes ago why and for what reasons, this proposal was presented by the authors, and this bill, which could indeed serve as the basis for our next four years together. Allow me not to repeat the detailed arguments made by Mr. Group Leader, but I should like to point out two things in the name of the Fidesz fraction. One is that today we can talk about political culture as an illusion, but I would still believe that political culture and political traditions are important to us. I think that there is a fundamental political tradition that is about the party, party alliance, the prime minister who wins the trust and can form a government of the majority of voters in the elections, that trust must be given and that opportunity must be given to take advantage of this mandate. Yesterday Prime Minister took the oath and gave a speech about the dangers he sees in his Heads of Government over the next four years, the situation he feels the country in, and what he and his government should be prepared for. [[10.40]] He also said that all government formations, as I believe this to be, are expected from a conservative, civil, Christian party alliance, given how he can serve government work most effectively over the next four years. This proposal was made on this basis, and I believe that on the opposition's part, even if the results of 3 April have disappointed them, but it is expected that they will give the Prime Minister and the Government elected by the people by a very large majority to do the work they have undertaken and to which they have sworn. I therefore ask my fellow Members to give me the opportunity to support this law so that the government can start working as more than three million people gave confidence to this government and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on 3 April. The other thing I would like to draw attention to is that it is obviously common to all of us, and we often say that there is an extraordinary situation, and we are facing very serious challenges in these four years. You can see that there is a war going on next door to us, in which one of the war parties is relatively rarely said, but a nuclear power. We also see that, as a result of the war, there is already a serious economic recession in Europe and throughout the world; it is clear that energy prices have been unleashed; and there is a shortage in certain areas, even in the food industry. And the Hungarian people feel every day that inflation affects everyone every day. Yesterday, the Prime Minister made it clear that the elements of his programme, on the basis of which the election was won by Fidesz-KDNP in this proportion, intend to carry out in these difficult circumstances. Maintaining the cost reduction, supporting families and keeping the country safe in everyday life, keeping ourselves, our loved ones safe in everyday life, is the government's main objective, and this is what the Prime Minister and his government want to achieve. According to the Prime Minister and the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association, this current bill, which contains the new ministerial structure, serves the government to do its best. So a word, like a hundred of my honourable fellow Members, the Fidesz faction supports the bill and asks the opposition, as well as the independent Members, to support this bill and give Viktor Orbán and his new government the opportunity to keep Hungary and all of us safe for the next four years, and to keep the economy in balance; to ensure that these four years provide us all with a perspective and to protect us from the effects that we now see in Europe and in the world. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-17-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-17-41	Thank you very much. Dear House, In general, we say that the definition of the governance structure, the definition of the ministerial system, falls within the power of the government to organise, should be entrusted to a government in what way and in what organizational system it intends to achieve its objectives. And that's the way it is. The opposition has to speak when there's a big problem. Now, there is a big problem, because either the goals or the assets assigned to it are fundamentally flawed, because the government structure is supposedly designed to respond to the growing dangers and to create an appropriate organisational framework for the tasks ahead of the government. If this is the case, the government does not believe that climate change, loss of biodiversity is a real threat; the food crisis is not a real threat; it is not a real threat to the decline of education, the shortage of teachers; it is not a real threat to the worsening state of health; it is not a real threat to increasing social exclusion, fragmentation, poverty; the government does not consider its task to protect the environment, improve education, health and reduce social gaps. Let's look at it one by one. It is no exaggeration to say that the Orbán government has put back 35 years of development in terms of environmental protection. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In 1987, the Ministry of the Environment was first in the Grós government. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's commie nostalgia!]] And until 2010, every government, either on the right or on the left, thought it important to have such a ministry. It is no coincidence that at the time of the establishment of the Parliament you certainly did not read it, because otherwise this bill would not have been tabled by 180 environmental and environmental organizations to the Parliament and Fidesz, and initiated the establishment of a ministry on environmental and climate issues of sufficient weight and power in the established government. It was written that, because of the protection of the lives of the present and future generations, it is considered essential that a strong, independent wallet be developed to protect the environment, bringing together areas of environmental and nature protection, water management and river basin management, the circular economy, climate protection and sustainable energy management. And let it be clear that when we are talking about environmental threats, the state of the environment or the climate crisis, we are not talking about some distant future threat, or we are not just talking about what is going to happen in the lives of our children and grandchildren, because of course we are talking about that, and this is also very important, but we are also talking about the fact that today, after Lake Venice, Lake Balaton is also threatened with dehydration; we are talking about how you treat the banks of our great lakes as a property of fief, are being built up and destroyed, whether it is Lake Venice or Lake Balaton or Lake Fertő. This is about major government investments destroying our cities, urban green areas. The issue is that agriculture is increasingly affected by the lack of precipitation and the changing weather, which already threatens the security of food supply. The point is that we miss the energy strategy that we're thinking about. Let me give you a small example: in terms of renewable energy, you consider the solar element to be something that can play a role in Hungarian energy management, compared to this, it was just this week that the construction of new solar power plants was stopped, because they do not receive an inclusive statement from Electricity Industries, they do not take over the electricity produced from them. Well, that's how much I miss the thought-out energy strategy. Obviously, the government is thinking, though, we can only guess here, because, in the spirit of transparency and predictability, what ministry will be responsible for, has not been published to this day, and we will be able to find out later from a government decree, while the press is guessing and guessing on the basis of previous practice, but it seems that you want to maintain the structure in the field of environmental protection and nature protection, where part of the task is in the agricultural purse, and the rest of it will go to or stay in the wallet, which is now called industrial. We have seen where this type of approach leads in terms of thoughtful environmental management, sustainable development and tackling the climate crisis: nowhere. It hasn't worked for 12 years, obviously it would have to be changed if, of course, you wanted to pursue a different, environmentally friendly policy, which will also monitor the interests of future generations. In terms of education, in order to please Congressman Nacsa, they break a much longer tradition, since the Ministry of Public Education and Religious Education was already in the first responsible government, the Batthyány government, and it was called that, led by József Eötvös [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Was that a commie, too, Lawrence?]] then, from 1867 to 2010, there was a continuous Ministry of Education or Education and Culture or Public Education for the Hungarian Government. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It's always been clear that every time we've been in government formation, the EMMI, the mammoth human purse you've created, is not fit to handle a portfolio that's so wide-ranging that it's been designed for, including education. This has been proven thickly, and it has become quite clear. If we understand correctly, in 12 years, you've understood quite slowly. And what conclusion did they draw? The EMMI has been abolished, but no Ministry of Education with meaningful responsibilities and responsibilities has been established. [[10.50]] What's the consequence? The fact that the educational area will continue to be inadequately managed professionally, because you will dissipate it if we understand it correctly, or if the press reports remain correct between several ministries, while the poor child who is in your education system from the moment he is born, but from the point of view of the education system: he will enter the kindergarten, to the point of completion of the university by a child, to the extent that his affairs will be dismembered in comparison, and they believe that the portfolio responsible for public education, public education and vocational training will be separate; if the press news is true, because we never know it, I will once again, because they have not told us what ministry of mystery fantasies will do. But it is very clear that if it does, and it seems that it will, and I would add that from the list of ministers, it is clear that there will certainly not be an educational minister for this government, so the consequence of this is that, ladies and gentlemen, education will not have professional management or proper representation. It follows that what has already happened will continue: there will be no funding for wage increases; there will be insufficient professional support for teachers; the migration of teachers and kindergarten teachers will continue, the shortage of teachers will increase; a significant proportion of students will continue to seek higher education abroad, and the work in education will continue to be devalued, the task which is crucial for the future of the country, as in the environment. If there is an area to move on to the next case, where it has been proven over the past four years that there is an urgent need for an independent, powerful ministry, it is the Ministry of Health. At the time of the outbreak, you have seen that the structure in which this worked is untenable, because the powers of health management have been packed here and there: there were those that the Prime Minister's Office dealt with, which the Ministry of the Interior did. It's obvious that you failed the kind of government structure that you operated it in. It is very typical that the minister and secretary of state responsible for health in the case of an epidemic has barely been seen, and we have hardly seen them take any action. We saw István György, Secretary of State, we saw Minister of Interior, we saw the national chief of staff, we saw everyone, they somehow didn't get involved in this, probably in luck for all of us, I have to add this. I have to say that from this approach, which considers health care to be such a side-by-side, technically-managed task, this has, for example, become such a serious misdemeanor as the medical service, where, apparently, the person who submitted this thought that the doctor was like the policeman and the nurse, and that the relations relating to him should be regulated. So the lesson is not from this, my fellow Members, that you have learned that there is no need for a Ministry of Health, because the Ministry of Interior is also very well arranged, as Mr Kocsis said, that we will prepare for foreign threats by strengthening the Ministry of Interior. One of the effective ways to prevent war threats is that education and health care are managed by the Ministry of the Interior, which is in fact a significant defence potential. It should therefore be clear that, in addition to acute cases, where there has been a clear lack in the last four years, a Ministry of Health with adequate competence and expertise in dealing with chronic health problems would also need an independent health wallet. This would be necessary in order to remedy the lack of doctors and nurses, long waiting lists, decayed buildings, and especially the fact that only a well-functioning Ministry of Health could help in the situation of tens of thousands of Hungarians dying every year in preventable or curable diseases. In the social field, this area is also treated in a step-by-step manner. If the press reports are true, because we don't know what they're really planning, then this area will also be divided into two areas, family and child protection and social affairs will be treated separately, and a good part of this area will land at BM again, continuing the consistent Fidesz policy that basically treats poverty as a police issue, not raising it, helping us, integrating our living fellow citizens in a difficult line, but keeping them in line and keeping them in order. In conclusion, we can therefore say that environmental protection and human areas are the major losers of this governance structure, precisely where change is needed most, where a new kind of government policy is most needed, and which, in our view, are the most important for people. Of course, there are winners of this steering structure. It's just that I can't go without saying, and it's going to be a lot this afternoon that the government organization, Antal Rogán, called the Propaganisterium, is going to have civilian secret services and supervision of them, which, to put it mildly, is worrying about the fact that for you, who have already, how should I say it? They treated citizens' data in a suspicious manner, in the case of a government that was deeply involved in the Pegasus scandal, in how they intend to use civil secret services in their external opponents, i.e. anyone who is not fidesz and their internal opponents, because, as we have seen in the Pegasus case, they are also welcome to observe each other, as they do in this kind of party states, to use fashion monitoring, and how they intend to use this information in government propaganda. I do not think it is comforting for the vast majority of Hungarian society that, from this point forward, during the national security control, Antal Rogán will decide who is a threat to Hungary and who is not. Overall, I can say that this governance structure is for the continuation of illegal and immoral governance so far, not for the interests of the country, not for the benefit of the citizens who choose you, so we will not be able to give it our support with a calm conscience, and we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-17-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The KDNP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, Mr President. You have the floor, please.
u2022-05-17-43	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is a list of the ministries of Hungary. There is no question that we are facing a decade of danger: war, epidemics, migration, energy crisis and the economic impact that they have created. Therefore, on 3 April 2022, voters made a clear and clear decision: they expect the country's leaders to protect them against these dangers, to give appropriate answers to the issues of the economic crisis that will unfold at European level, while preserving Hungary's peace and security and the results achieved. These are the main goals of the new governance structure, which includes significant structural changes compared to the previous one. Ladies and Gentlemen, With regard to the attitude of the opposition, I must point out that they went over another negative line yesterday when the vote did not support T/47 which is essential for the government transformation. This is an essential condition for this bill, the formation of a government, to be passed on to parliamentary meetings as soon as possible. On the basis of the above, as well as the keynote speech that Gergely Arató said today, it is clear that the opposition has also broken off with good parliamentary practice that it has considered matters relating to the structure of the government to be the task of the government, and has given support for the transformation, whether on procedural or substantive issues. Yesterday we did not receive this support on procedural issues, and today we are discussing content issues. All this at a time when there is a war going on in our neighbourhood, and Hungarians are interested in creating Hungary's new government, the fifth Orbán government, as soon as possible. Remember, the opposition does not support T/47 on the list of ministries in Hungary. In essence, it wants to prevent the people's will of the legislative election of 2022, that is, the people's will, which clearly stated that the fifth Orbán government would be established. [[11.00]] All this is done by the opposition, despite the fact that the citizens of Hungary have set the goals of governance. Moreover, the main objective of the national Christian government has not changed at all compared to the three cycles between 2010 and 2022. The government's main goal is to do everything possible to preserve our Christian-Christian culture in peace, and to achieve this goal, it is necessary that we can protect our country, we can continue to create full employment, support families with a family-based policy, give work instead of aid, and represent the Hungarian interest above all. Ladies and Gentlemen, With national governance, we have achieved in 12 years that Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe today, and we are trying to keep it that way. We are protecting our borders and working to make everyday security more secure. A strong government, political and legal stability is needed to achieve these goals. Therefore, according to the electorate's will, Hungary's new government, the fifth Orbán government, must be established as soon as possible. We need an effective and fast-acting government, because the world will be subject to changes that affect all of our lives in a matter of minutes. There are such challenges in the area of security and in economic life. Therefore, national security issues as well as economic development will have a key role to play in the governance structure. We will also have an extremely important international task in this term of representation of national Christian values, not only at home but also beyond the border. May the Lord grant that we may succeed in making the West recognize its Christian roots and Christian values. At present, these Christian values in the West seem to be forgotten. What I see is that in the West, people do not spend their time wisely, that is to say, they have separated from the Lord, and they live only on the basis of a measure they have invented, perceived, or real intelligence. What is today's level of smartness? In the denial of the created world and in the simultaneous denial of all true values. And the world's leaders are so smart that they don't want to fix their wrong lives, they want to force their own deviant world on us. They want to replace Christianity with a global world order by force, which is similar to the world's older communist experiments. This is a global revolution in which not only the value system of society, but also the complete structure of it, is being turned out of its normal routine. They do this in a deceptive and deceitful way, proclaiming the idea of a better world. Remember, the founding fathers of the European Union, Schuman, Adenauer, De Gasperi, told us a century and a half ago that Europe would be either a Christian or not. Unfortunately, the last turn of this sentence seems to be taking place. Europe is rushing towards its destiny, but we Hungarians are trying to stop it. We are doing everything we can to stop this open attack on indigenous European peoples and nations, as well as the Christian civilization that is the roots of Europe. With this stand, we protect sovereign Hungary and its inhabitants, as well as the federal Europe. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-17-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, another lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-17-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that if you ever want to refer to yourself as a Democrat in life, or if democracy is considered important, then this bill will be voted in favour, because this bill is an impression of the decision that the power within the framework of the password of the people was declared by the Hungarian electorate on 3 April. Because, yes, the power belongs to the people, and on 3 April the Hungarian electorate decided, and the impression of this decision that we are now seeing before us is that the structure of the government stands up. That's for you, if you're considered Democrats, you're bound to support me. If we look at this bill and read it, we can think of one word, or maybe two: tranquillity and stability. We can rest assured, because there is not a list of government names and ministerial lists here, which begins with the Prime Minister Péter Márki-Zay, Klára Dobrev, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Minister of Finance, Péter Jakab, Minister of Interior, and it does not continue with Timea Szabó, Minister of Justice, Gergely Arató, responsible for education, György Lukács leads the government program that takes doctors abroad, Zsolt Gréczy is not responsible for the policy of clean hands. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] András Fekete-Győr is not the nuclear commissioner. I think that we can be calm about the current bill because this is not the way Hungary's next government stands. We have told you that we are living in a time of danger, and the Prime Minister has also said that we need a government and a governance structure that can provide real, effective and rapid responses to the current challenges. We are living in a time of danger, because the energy crisis and the food crisis are starting migration again, we are living in an era of epidemics, dark clouds are gathering on the skies of the European economy, we are not even out of the epidemic, and we are at war next door. To these challenges, we must also measure the structure of the government and the people, and I think that we have succeeded in doing so, as can be seen from the speech we have just said. Gergely Arató talked about why when a child enters the school in kindergarten, and when he leaves the university or college, he should not be treated as a unit. Well, I'd like to ask him what happens when the child travels by train or goes on vacation, what happens when he gets an ID card, what happens when he doesn't give me a god, he goes under guardianship. My fellow Member, it is perfectly normal and logical that in the life of a child, but also in the life of an adult, different stages fall under different ministries. The point, my honourable fellow Member, is that these ministries should be able to cooperate, work together, and not lose sight of the national, civil and Christian democratic country building, as well as the well-being and well-being of Hungarian society, Hungarian people and families. Dear fellow Member, this is thank God, not the Gyurcsány era. You may remember, Congressman, because you were sitting at the government meetings when Ferenc Gyurcsány informed you that he had allowed the Russian secret service into the Hungarian services. And speaking of secret services, honourable Member, let us not forget that it was you who allowed secret servants and agents from another state to screen the Hungarian secret services, honourable Member. In addition, it was the Russian secret service that you allowed into the Hungarian services. And let us not forget that we were not the ones who targeted hundreds of thousands of citizens using the Bajna analytics who never gave you their phone number or their e-mail address. They contacted them in the campaign with meaningless, unmarked, meaningless texts to support you. Not only is it pointless to support you, but the sentences didn't make any sense either, honourable Member. The thing is, they still haven't been able to account for how and why the Bajna analytics was used in public. Let us hope that this will take place in time. You've talked about health care, honourable Member. He spoke of the medical service relationship as if you had not voted for it, as if the left had not voted in favour of the medical service and the historic wage increase, which resulted in an unprecedented increase in wages for doctors, and which reorganized health care and led out the gratuity money that you all said was impossible for years. They said that the parasolvency cannot be eliminated, but the previous health government has succeeded, honourable Member. So speak with a smaller voice about the previous health government, because we have achieved historical results together, I would add, even you voted in favour of this law, which, I think, will determine the situation of Hungarian health not only for the coming years, but also for the coming decades. You have to give a repeat because you were so elegant that you didn't come to the Prime Minister's speech yesterday, and together with your fascist class, you spent time somewhere else. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's for our country! Dr. István Apáti: No, no, be careful!]] The fact is, honourable Member, that the Prime Minister made it clear yesterday that we will retain the result of full employment. Ferenc Gyurcsány spoke yesterday about the fact that we destroyed the country, compared to which unemployment was 3.2 percent in March, which is the fourth best figure in the European Union, and today's data show that there was a 8.2 percent increase in GDP in the first quarter, my fellow Members. [[11.10]] This is the time that Péter Márki-Zay and you have been saying throughout the campaign that the Hungarian economy has been ruined. During the period when they said that the entire Hungarian economy had stopped and collapsed, there was an increase in GDP of 8.2 percent during that period, honourable Members. So a little reality is sometimes taken into account, and I know that the facts don't interfere with your speeches, and they don't interfere with your world vision, but I would ask you that when reality comes to light, sometimes you should think about what the world really looks like, and not just in the small inner-Pest intellectual circle where you like to move and don't like to get out of it, you should listen to what you have to say. The Prime Minister said that we will maintain full employment, he said that we will not only preserve family support but also expand it according to our plans. It is a very important element of our policy to create financial security and prosperity for Hungarian families, so that children can be born not only spiritually, but not only because of the spirituality, not only because of the survival of the nation, and not only because of the idea of living in the family, but also in order to make it worthwhile financially. The Prime Minister also said that we will preserve the value of pensions [[Intervention on the opposition side: Did you manage?!]] Remember, you've reduced the value of pensions by 10 percent in real terms. During your administration, not only did they take a month's pension from pensioners, but they even reduced it by 10 percent in real terms. And the last thing he said was that he was going to keep the reduction, because Gergely Arató was sure to be there at the meeting when Ildikó Lendvai said that there would be no gas price increase, and then he managed to break his promise only fifteen times by the Gyurcsányist government, 15 times by raising the prices of electricity and gas, and we introduced the reduction of the overhead, which means that the Hungarian families receive electricity and gas cheapest, the cheapest energy in March, the cheapest energy paid by the families in Budapest and Hungary throughout the European Union, my fellow Member. These are again the results that you can deny, just like on April 3rd, when the train called reality came to face, this will be the case in the future, so I ask you once again if you consider yourself Democrats and accept the outcome of the election, vote for this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-17-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-17-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Acknowledging the government's current right to define the structure and structure of the government practically freely, we are discussing this debate today, as well as this bill and the forthcoming bill, but allow us, on behalf of the Jobbik Group, to make critical comments that must be made. The structure of the government's operation and its adaptation to the needs have long been its own right for the government that has won the elections and who has been asked to form a government, however, it is important to remove the key elements that, we believe, are not in line with what was said yesterday, what the Prime Minister understands about the past period and the next period, and how he intends to set up the government itself. On yesterday, Viktor Orbán talked about a lot of things, especially the lack of peace, the period we are facing or what we are looking at; the war, the lack of peace, resources and the future of our country. In this way, it is worth considering that the current bill actually meets the challenges of the government structure that we are presenting... in the way that we are now seeing the governance structure and which should meet the challenge. It should be simply and briefly said no, and the justification for this is as follows. The Prime Minister said that it was a time of war, compared with the Ministry of Defence, that there would appear to be a major exchange, whether personal exchange, and this could also result in a change in direction or style, as the Ministry of Defence has often been a leader who himself came from the Ministry of Defence and represented his career and professionalism in defence, even though he has had a lot of criticism, often his tone, his style may not have reflected the political public participation that he was supposed to be, but with a countryman, a general, man has a lot to afford, we have seen his work trying to do his best. Compared to this, you seem to be entrusting a businessman with the task of taking the matter of defence, and if we are talking about war, it is indeed a matter of very important defence. He will be the minister when, when he swears as a minister, he can essentially be with his own ministry to carry his own machines and aircraft through a Czech company, which is linked to him by rumours and information, and is owned by him, and obviously in far more complex economic circumstances, you manage ownership [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] But the point is that a direct link can be shown by the future minister [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] and between the wallet led by the Minister and the customer, so that the customer and the handler will be essentially the same person here, even if the Secretary of State, which orders it, is led by Gáspár Maróth, who was also famous not for providing military performance in military chambers, but for doing business in business. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Business!]] The second is that you said that you needed educated heads of people, compared to this, the Ministry of Education once again did not have an independent wallet. If there is a complete unity in public opinion polls in Hungary between pro-government and opposition voters, the key areas for which people want to set up an independent ministry are education, such as health and the environment, the environment surprisingly calls for an independent ministry covering a fully social consensus. In recent times, there has not been a public opinion poll in which there would not have been the largest consensus, exceeding 80 per cent of the vast majority of society, across party policy. This critical remark is also important to be made. In recent times, the epidemic has also shown that public health and health care in Hungary are vulnerable, and we need to speak clearly. It is in Hungary's interest to be able to operate a robust, state-funded health care system, for which the most important thing is to have a separate wallet in which there is a direct link between decision-makers and those working in the sector. It's not just Jobbik's idea, it's not just a right-wing, conservative view, it's a posture; it's basically a requirement of the profession. Each professional organisation, whether it is the Chamber of Doctors, whether it be the Chamber of Pharmacies or even the Chamber of Professionals, has stated and has constantly asked for a separate ministry, in which sectoral management is as effective as possible to address the situation of healthcare, otherwise in a very difficult situation in recent years. And I'm asking you, when you have to think about a separate Ministry of Health, don't start with the example of Miklós Kásler. Minister, otherwise highly respected in medicine [[György Balla intervenes.]] as a minister, he did not do a good job in the field of health, but that does not mean that the Ministry of Health could not be properly furnished by other persons and could not be given a place in the profession where, when it comes to professional matters, let us say that the answer should not be "brissing." [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We've never answered with a brisket!]] When it comes to women in charge, do not respond with the political credo in Brussels or with the political communication you produce, but try to make a meaningful solution. This should be the guiding principle of a centre-right thought. And what is left in place of these ministries is clear: a communication government. Communication governance is governed by your heart, by the heart of the government, through the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, and essentially means that there is no independent thought for the ministers who will take a ministerial oath, no need to hold the line you say, assigning the war area, assigning the enemy and assigning this victory strategy, and adapting it to everything, and the professional questions will be sacrificed on this altar. I would like to remind you that, from the current structure, you are preparing once again for a very large administration. However, in 2010, Viktor Orbán stated that the big state was not right, and that the right-wing conservative politician could be supported by the need to create as small a state as possible, and that this applies to the ministries, the government commissioners and everyone else. You have also become record players in this, not only have you made a smaller state, but you have made a bigger state, overall, you have assigned 308 different positions among yourselves, which have argued with the rank of State Secretary, and you have already had government commissioners, a lot of State Secretarys and Assistant State Secretarys. We managed to increase the central administration, in essence, even with a small number of ministries, in such a way that it contradicted the principle of the smaller state you have formulated. And it is also clear that if we are talking about communication governance and if we are dealing with the current governance structure and the future governance structure in terms of communication governance, then we also see that you are preparing for another emergency. [[11.20]] It was not a coincidence that the first bill of this Parliament, which was negotiated, was an amendment to the basic law, which was essentially embedded in this. You have said that you are planning to introduce a new extraordinary legal order, designed for the economic crisis and, moreover, for the war situation, which has led everything to a normal and comfortable emergency government in recent times. In emergency governance, we do not need strong, independent ministries and self-thinking ministers, but rather a centrally disciplined government propaganda, which is essentially reflected in the whole government organisation. Which, on the other hand, can be seen [[Nacsa Lárinc: That's not the Jobbik! Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] The kind of political and jurisdictional concentration that develops around the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office is a cause for concern and concern. We have had a lot of discussions over the last few days, and there will be a lot of debate, and I wish that it was not so, that professional organisations should not be badly affected, but it seems that in Hungary, apart from those on the government side, no one is happy that the concentration of secret services, civilian or other military secret services is thus resolved. And it's not about which ministry you're with, it's about who you're connected to. Because, overall, it is permissible for civil secret services to be in one place within the framework of a ministry, but to be linked to a person who is accountable for the settlement bonds, who is accountable for the Pegasus scandal, who is accountable for a great deal of everyone's growth, is not permissible. We all know that the government machine you control will attack anyone in no time, and it is quite clear that future problems and people facing you can be literally hunted from one place from now on. Hungary, if we are talking about a Democratic position with these steps, is not taking another step towards democracy, which we all want to take in that direction, but in the opposite direction. It doesn't mean we should go west, it shouldn't look like we have to go east, but we can clearly see that you want to go back to that Russian setup pattern again. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Keep going on the puppy road!]] Which was already known to the Russians, and we saw where it led. We can also see during the war what it has led to, that most of the Russian population does not see that their own country is committing aggression, because propaganda and the leading of the people there hide it from them. You want an arrangement that is very far from European values, from right-wing, conservative values and is completely foreign to it, centralizes to the extremes, and therefore loses its professionalism. Professionalism continues to decline, accountability and transparency are completely lost by this system, in particular by allowing for the introduction of a type of governance which, bypassing Parliament or substantially underage parliamentary powers, will lead to regulation governance. Everything seems to go in the direction that has been practiced in the past period, that everything is business and that nothing is the exercise of fair public affairs; the independent ministry of government structure, education, health, environment or social affairs, the lack of these ministries points in this direction. Basically, you're preparing for a communication warfare, the war goals, and the people you're going to war with, you've set them up. In its current form, this bill or the afternoon bill, which contains in detail the legislative amendments and adaptations relating to the new ministries, cannot be accepted. A right-wing, conservative party, but I don't think any party that means the fair construction of democracy can vote for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and Momentum.]]
u2022-05-17-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Fekete-Győr, lead speaker of the Momentum Group. [[György Balla: Let's hear it! Let's hear it.]] Here you go. [[György Balla: Let's hear the speaker!]]
u2022-05-17-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Before I begin to debate the substance of the legislation before us, Congressman Nacsa said a few smiling thoughts in the previous ones. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I'm glad I could help.]] A representative of a party alliance will take on the words "democracy" and "democracy" which will flood the various institutions of Hungarian democracy, the Hungarian rule of law, with authoritarian means, with their own party soldiers, from the main prosecutor's office to the curatorium of public media. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Parliament elected him!]] So from you, thank you very much, but we do not accept any lecture on democracy. There's only one Democratic alliance in this Parliament sitting across from you. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. György Balla: Ferenc Gyurcsány! Bravo!]] As far as the government itself is concerned, the new government of Viktor Orbán is not fit to solve the challenges facing Hungary and to address the challenges facing our country. This is partly because of the confusing structure, the lack of functions [[György Balla: This is already confusing! The speaker!]] This is partly because in the coming years our country will have to face challenges that we have never had to face in the last 32 years, that is, since the change of regime. The Momentum will therefore support any proposal that protects Hungary, which builds our country, which makes this country better, but we will oppose any wrong solution. However, this government is a continuation of a bad policy, so we do not support this government and we are asking for its correction. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Ask for a correction of the election! Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] It must also be said that a significant part of Hungary's problems are not the fault of Viktor Orbán or Fidesz. For others, however, it is the sole responsibility of the entire power for 12 years to prevent the dangers and to react to the problems that arise. Fidesz is not responsible for problems in global supply chains, which cause a significant proportion of inflation, but is responsible for the fact that in Hungary there is a more serious deterioration of money than in the neighbouring countries of Europe. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] But inflation [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] not only the ten million or ten billion savings [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Economists!]] Although you could tell us more about the latter, inflation is a huge deterioration of the standard of living for a beginner teacher or nurse who earns HUF 150,000. Of course, it's a shame that our fellow countrymen who practice these professions make so much money today. It's the shame of steering at least 12 years, at least. Then Fidesz can't help the war in Ukraine, but Momentum and those Hungarian voters who are aware of XX. From the beginning, we criticize and criticize the Putin-friendly policy of the Orbán governments. There is little, very little, that open Russian friendship has been tame with the outbreak of war. It also makes us smile that we heard the first really clear sentence about the war from Katalin Novak's mouth last Saturday. Why does Prime Minister Viktor Orbán not dare to ask you why your Prime Minister does not dare to say that we are not neutral and that we condemn the genocide of the Russian army in Ukraine [[Lőrinc Nacsa: We filed the resolution!]] , a genocide in a country in which our fellow Hungarians live? He is also responsible for the isolation of Hungary, Hungary, on an international level, because of the opposition to the war aggressor and the policy against Europe that has been going on for 12 years. In addition to the wealth of money in Brussels and the soaring European economy, European leaders have unfortunately allowed you to overlook the fact that you and your oligarchs, your moneymen, have built luxury objects, castles and hunting houses instead of turning these resources into hospitals, schools and jobs. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Katalin Czech company!]] The European representatives of the Momentum went to Brussels three years ago with the mandate to change that, to bring EU money home, because now they're not here because of you. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: They're at Katalin Cseh's company! Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] to bring EU funds home and to use them for the prosperity and development of Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses, and we will also be working on this in the coming years. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You calmed me down!]] When we vote on the new government, we also need to decide that this team is able to bring these EU funds home to the last cent. Let us understand the gesture of EU leaders convincing Viktor Orbán. The Hungarian citizens are the hostages, and the European leaders are the negotiators who are trying to get the threatening Hungarian Prime Minister, your Prime Minister, to better understand. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] He is also responsible for the fact that there is a crisis just like us, a so-called future crisis in Hungary. [[11.30]] The area of failure over the past 12 years may even be agreed by you, but it is certain that all voters living in Hungary are education and health. The Hungarian public education system is held together only by school workers and teachers who are committed to it despite their underpaidness. Hungarian specialty, almost hungaricum became a substitute teacher for all the majors and a teacher who lied on paper to babysitting and the teacher's career model where it becomes a real dilemma for someone to target a master teacher's qualification or a cleaning job in addition to teaching if they want more money. Then the last 12 years are also responsible for the fact that, according to the 2013 report of the so-called State Centre for Public Health, the Fidesz government's own body, a medium city of Hungarians, about 32 thousand Hungarians have died or died continuously because of the poor quality of healthcare, for which you have been responsible for 12 years. So once again, I'm not saying this, but the Orbán government is saying this about itself, and you're saying it about yourself. Since then, these figures have probably not improved, although I would add that no more such reports have been produced, it is not difficult to figure out why. Believe me, we are not against international gigasport events, but it is difficult for me to see how you are able to throw public money at the water vb and Giro d, while so many Hungarian compatriots die year after year because of your irresponsibleness and ruin the future of so many winners and take away the possibility of underfunding education. I don't know, but I'm guessing that's one of the reasons why they didn't even want a separate person responsible, a special minister for these tasks. I don't mind insulting you. [[György Balla: You can't insult us.]] I will also say that you will not justify one government, but dozens of personal secretaries to Viktor Orbán. This government and this structure cannot find a solution to the problems of education and health, runaway inflation, war in our neighbours and sovereign debt. We can't find the Ministry of Education and Health in this structure in the first place. Of course, I know that no independent ministry is always a guarantee of success, but I ask you, pro-government colleagues, that it is certainly a good idea to leave a former police chief with zero health experience to manage the area that has been facing the biggest crisis in Hungary for two decades. What is the reason why two separate ministries are involved in public education and higher education, as if today's primary school were not the basis for the future of high school students and university students? And it is frightening to see that the social area, so the eradication of poverty, is under Sándor Pintér. I'm asking you, what kind of social mobility can be achieved with batons. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Smoke grenade, perhaps?]] Or will the Ministry of the Interior send a text on behalf of the Minister of the Interior asking you to transfer to another social class? [[Defiance in the ranks of Momentum.]] It would be very good if the Orbán government could finally stop chasing the poor instead of poverty. I can't believe anyone who doesn't have anything is worth that much. Attila József or János Irinyi, who invented matches, or Tivadar Csontváry Kosztka, never had anything, but their heritage is enormous, and among other things, we can be proud of them in this nation. Dear Parliament, After a pandemic, in the vicinity of a prolonged war, nearly half of the new government, six wallets deal with economic policy. It's like you haven't learned anything from the last two years. What should happen, I ask you, although the Prime Minister should be able to trust at least his own people? Is it really more important that no fidesz politician can rise above the Prime Minister? How's this government gonna work? So if, for example, a minister wants to reduce the burden on small businesses, I note that we would support this, by the way, how would he carry it through the other five economic purses? Such a structure cannot be supported by the Momentum fraction. There are some bad personal decisions that need to be discussed. I think that even Minister Pintér agrees with me that it is not a good idea to entrust the operation of civil secret services and the control of corruption to the person who brought the settlement bond business under control. We are talking about Antal Rogán, and the program that allowed international criminals, including the Syrian President, who bombed his own people with chemical weapons, and other potential foreign spies, to gain Hungarian citizenship in Hungary, to settle here and live here. It's a shame! And it's amazing that you can appoint a defense minister who has indirect interests in the military industry. On this basis, Momentum cannot support or support this government. If the members of the new government submit proposals on increasing the salary of health workers or educators, on language education programmes, on the reduction of taxes on small businesses, on digitalisation, on the protection of the environment, we will support them. If such a proposal comes, we will vote together, my dear fellow Member of the Flame, but not until this is done. We cannot approve this government, so it is unsuitable to perform the most important tasks and to eliminate the greatest dangers. It is also an incredible achievement to put together a government that can't even be pleased that at least Miklós Kásler failed. [[György Balla intervenes. A statement from the ruling parties: Sit down, Number One.]] I am not an enemy of party politics, I myself have formed a party, I have built a party, and I am the leader of the political group of a party here in Parliament, but I am primarily a politician of Hungary, I serve the Hungarians and Hungary, and I am only the politician of the Momentum. It seems to you that this works in reverse, because it is clear in the composition of this government that the Fidesz concentration of power and the fidesz division of power were the main organizing principle of the design, not the primary interest of Hungary. And the Momentum faction will vote no for that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-05-17-50	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hiller, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-17-51	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Every four years, it is a specific debate that we are having. At the beginning of the cycle, the legislation on the listing of ministries, but according to the knowledge that we all have, the Hungarian constitutional arrangement requires that the Prime Minister has a government, not the government, but that the Prime Minister has a government, and therefore what the elected Prime Minister presents to Parliament is likely to reflect his will, the kind of idea that he leads the country in this way. It is not too bold to assume that the majority groups behind it will support this, then what is this debate for, even though we talk about it every four years. I do not think that this debate is about changing the position that the Prime Minister has been working on over the last few weeks on the news as a result of either the majority factions, but especially the Prime Minister's arguments or ideas. In Hungarian: now we oppositionists... I certainly do not say my opinion, because I believe that my right will change the presentation, but because I represent voters, we represent hundreds of thousands, yes, millions of Hungarians, who are worth knowing how we think, our attitude towards government, structure, in this sense, the Prime Minister's speech made yesterday, how we think, how I think about the future of our country, its near future, and the system of relations in which we live. [[11.40]] I think it is right to think that a government should be used for a given period in the light of the decisive waves affecting it, the defining circumstances. In this sense, it is not right to be rigidly conservative for a conservative person, and it is not right to talk about innovation only when renewal and renewal are needed in many areas. There are some things that are silly to disagree with. We are after a period, and we have not yet completed a period that has undoubtedly put all of us, not only political parties, parliamentary representatives, but all people in Hungary, on our continent, are sure and in the vast majority of the world, and it is foolish not to take this into account. It is foolish to talk, to think as if we were living in a closed environment, and not to be exposed to influences while representing people, Hungarians, and, in this respect, to think together with fellow Members who are not in this Parliament, but they and their people are also suffering what we are going through. And that must be taken into account in political decisions. For centuries, the world has not seen an epidemic that I hope we will live in its final phase. An economic crisis is unfolding, and a war is raging together, and it is not simply a political burden. I'm not saying it's not a big challenge for the politician, but it's silly to think it's the politician's best burden. This is much better for the ordinary man, the head of the family, the wife, the grandparent, and perhaps the child, whose psyche and soul are influenced by everything we live in. This is, therefore, undoubtedly an impact group that should be taken into account in the formation and structure of the government. It's okay. There is another, in political terms, in the military sense, we are members of two major international organizations. I am proud that my country is a member of the European Union, and I am a proud Hungarian and proud European. I like to be Hungarian, and I like to be European, and my thinking, everything I know about the past, and what I hope for in the future, connects my country with Europe. I think that the best thing for our country and this nation was that politics was able to create this kind of community. And we're members of NATO, which gives us a sense of security. I'm not saying it's a huge happiness to live in a time when a man's basic sense of security must be given by a military organization, but if that's the case, let's at least see what's an advantage. However, there is something I have to argue with, both with yesterday's Prime Minister's speech and with those reflected in your approach. Is this Europe really such a bad place, honourable Members? Do you really believe that this is at the bottom of Western Europe in terms of its organizational, social structure, their everyday lives and morality, especially its morality? Do you really believe that Florence or Lyon, Manchester or Granada, Düsseldorf or Graz are in deep crisis? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Politics!]] I ask you very much that... Of course, we can have a political debate on the ground floor, but if there are so many of us in the room, then let's try to raise the bar a little bit, and let's really talk about how this is a political self-defination for a starting point, a basis for argument, a basis for reasoning about the structure of this government, and not what Western European reality is, but I am putting it in a position to build and explain everything that we are discussing here. I strongly advise against the fact that if you are willing to accept this wording, you are underestimating the European capacity to innovate. Don't bury him. Keep reading Spengler, and then you'll see what he's right about and what he's wrong about. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: The spirit of Faust...]] But it is undoubtedly very bold to outline arches at an age, so in this debate I dare only make arguments as to what is the Western Hungary that I or we believe in. Our country was never Île-de-France, not even Ruhrgebiet. It is not the idea of Western Hungary to make the Carpathian Basin like the neighbourhood of Paris or even Lombardy. This is a huge mistake. The image of Western Hungary in the philosophy of society and in my belief in the right policy is to set the limits of our opportunities and opportunities, in which we can live with total freedom, but where the ability and talent of this nation will be given maximum opportunity. And I do not see that in the history of the last thousand years and in the present, it can be achieved under any other circumstances, only if our country and this nation belong to the Western European part in terms of organization and mentality. The reason why I don't say an organisation name is because they have different names at different times we now call them the European Union. It can be a very serious mistake, a very serious mistake, that if this Western Europe, or this one, is misjudged, they think that they will tie this country's chariot elsewhere. I suggest we argue about that. Not because there's no alternative, but I'm saying worse because there is, because there is a choice. If you think that, in the economic sense of the moralally very low, organised crisis, that they are choosing a different orientation instead of Western Europe with most problems, it is a tragedy for this nation, I will never accept one of its details, and I will reject it most definitely. I'm political in order for this country to be a Western Hungary, not because it couldn't be any other country. When violence has been used, we can say many of these things to each other, obviously not just XX. In the century, then a different orientation was created, be it east or south. When we were allowed at least to live with our minimum freedom, the ambition was to create this Western Hungary. I suggest that you do not deviate from the path that this kind of tradition, I think the most noble Hungarian tradition, which was able to combine the idea of home and progress, has designated you for a modern Hungarian policy. It is pointless to say that modern Hungarian politics is today. It is modern Hungarian politics that, at its own age, is able to recognize the interests of this country, region and nation. It is in the interests of Western Hungary. Compared to this, I know, although the subject matter of this law is a secondary question of what kind of ministry is organized. The question is that you recognise the interests, and the Prime Minister makes the right decision compared to that, not that my speech amends this, but you need to know how I think in representing people. There are certainly some good things, and I'm not in the mood for jokes, so don't get it. It's a good thing they're shutting down the EMMI. The truth is, you guys figured it out a long time ago. I've been a conceptual opponent since 2010, all this time I've thought that this construction is the problem itself, and it can't be a solution to the problem. In this respect, thirdly, who was driving it, because the structure itself was wrong, compared to which ministers could perform better or weaker. To judge through these glasses is a mistake, a false image. I think they found out in 2018 that they couldn't do it, but they didn't admit it; they didn't give me any other names, but they set up an army of land. [[11.50]] What kind of Ministry of Human Resources doesn't include higher education, tell me already? ! But it's the right thing to do here, at least now, to admit it. I think it is right that the government structure has several ministerial positions with no wallets. I think it's right because it gives me more flexibility. Those who had the means to serve this country, by controlling an apparatus, know that there is a difficulty, there are areas where the Minister without a wallet can move faster and easier. While I do not want the entire government to be made up of ministers without a wallet, I admit that it is the right decision to entrust some areas to him. It has been said and there is no need to waste any more time and talk about it, that they will have a lot of economic ministries. Work it out. I think they're a problem for you, but there's no one else who can solve it. I'm thinking about how they're going to coordinate the operation between the different economic wallets. Coordination between ministers is never the most difficult, and it is the duty of a prime minister to solve it. Then, when the apparatus and areas clash, there will be a harder task, and because they really divide the economy into many parts, there I see a problem in coordination. Please allow me not to explain in detail now, because I value more and I need more time to present the area of education within the governance structure. The point is that there is, by the way, a professional idea that the issue of education should go to a wallet, while I can give many examples in Europe and not in Europe, where that is not the case. I think that you cannot solve the problems of public education; in this respect, it is almost uninteresting which wallet it is with. I think they didn't put it on a wallet, they put it at Minister Pintér's, because they want what they've decided to make sure it's done, and they didn't put it in the Home Office, but the Minister of Interior, who is Sándor Pintér. In my later speech, I will talk about the innovative issues of the governance structure and the issue of culture, the issue of human resources, and I would like to say this in my speech on the basis of the faction framework. The point is that in the government structure, the Prime Minister's right to form whatever government he wants is not disputed, and what I said, and I will tell you later, with the need for correction and the intention of seeking a better governance structure. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-05-17-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the group of our countries. Here you go.
u2022-05-17-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Family, education, health care, youth, children, sport I have mentioned words that are not included in the proposals on behalf of the ministries or on this. You will set up a governance structure in the next vote in a few hours, in which the family will not even be involved at the level of mention. So far, he has been Hungary's Minister of Family Affairs, because you, when Katalin Novák was appointed for this position, argued that it was necessary for a minister to represent the families in the government. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: President of the Republic now.]] Even on behalf of a ministry, family affairs are no longer mentioned, but if there is any challenge for Hungary at all, just now, when the first decline in fertility data has been revealed in the course of Viktor Orbán's governance since 2010, it would be particularly challenging to focus much more on the family than ever before. Because technology, innovation and investment are in the name of ministries, and they will also deal with it in 5-6 wallets, but they will not do this with family, youth, children, health and education. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Fertility has not fallen in Hungary in ten years. And do you know when this happened? Just this January, and a researcher from the Economics Society pointed out that the increase in the number of coronal virus vaccinations resulted in a drastic decrease in birth rates with a 9-month shift. We could say that after the Covid outbreak, fertility decreased. There was indeed a temporary halt in Hungary in the growth of fertility, but the epidemic itself did not cause a decrease in fertility, and nine months after the bulk of vaccinations there has been an unprecedented decline in birth rates in the last 20 years. This January's figures are 20 percent! They are lagging behind a year ago, and the fertility rate dropped from 1.57 to 1.55. And in such a situation, you are presenting a ministerial structure in which you say that there is no longer a need for a Minister of Family Affairs. What is the reason for this? Why do you think that there is no longer a need to represent families at ministerial level? And another very important mentality issue with regard to family policy proposals and measures. I know that if you will respond to my speech, you will list the positive changes that have taken place in the area of family policy over the last 12 years, and I will not dispute that. At the same time, it is not our task for you, for us, for each Hungarian Member of Parliament, to take measures, but our task is to make them effective and, if they are not effective enough, to review them and to take further measures, because if we are talking about a challenge under Article XXI, we will review them. In the 18th century, in Hungary and Europe, the demographic disaster, which has been happening in Hungary since 1980, is a challenge, a much more important challenge than technology and innovation. And it is therefore a very serious problem that you do not think so, and it is a serious problem that the Prime Minister of Hungary does not think so. We also need to ask you a few questions regarding further transformations. I would like to know who of the authors who came up with the idea of public education about Sándor Pintér, or who was thinking of Antal Rogán in the fight against corruption. Because the whole departmental structure, the new one, we can say, is one of the biggest losers of state workers. You've been extremely cruel to state workers for the past 12 years. Almost all public sectors are characterised by a shortage of staff and underpaid persons. Let's take a look. Teachers in education are on strike because of their salaries, working conditions and humiliating treatment. At the beginning of the election campaign, a letter from a beginner educator showed, through his own example, the conditions under which these people who spend 8-10 hours a day with our children should work. Yes, and this educator wrote that at the end of the month, he often eats empty rice for lunch, because he has no money for anything else, but he also took the toilet paper home from school to at least have it at home. And after that, these people, who stand before our children every day, you say that there will still not be a ministry of education, there will not be a minister of education who can enforce their interests in the government, but who will be placed under their own political power games and cut up the education sector, dividing the powers in this regard to different ministries. But we can move on to the situation of the nurses. There's an amazing shortage of staff in health care. In a year, nearly 20,000 people left health care, so much less workers. In the social sphere, they work for money even lower than the health wage level, with the work of those working in this sphere performing an extremely stressful task. [[12.00]] The cultural sector, the law enforcement sector, is also understaffed, and the defence sector and the public administration have the same characteristics. In a situation like this, what do you do? They do not give these sectors a representation worthy of them, a government structure worthy of them, but practically all of it, everyone is swept under the hands of Sándor Pintér, he will be able to manage these sectors with a power word. But there really is only one more serious question, and this is the person of Antal Rogán, and the fact that all the civil secret services will be added to him. It's not just the settlement bond business that makes you concerned. The Prime Minister may think that a robber will be the best pandur, but we do not have such good prospects if we think that Antal Rogán will be the full-fledged master of the secret services here. Because what exactly is happening? What are you proposing? For example, the National Defense Service did some digging into Schadl's case. In the Schadl case, in which an indictment of your former Secretary of State was conducted and the involvement of Antal Rogán's chief of staff was also made public. So what are you doing? The service that Antal Rogán's chief of staff is concerned with, was found to be involved in the criminal organization involved in the executor-mafia, and this service is placed under Antal Rogán. You've got to be kidding me. That's pretty amazing. This shows that there is no professionalism, no commitment here, that all civil services will be under political control, and it is not important for you to do their job well, but that the Prime Minister is able to maintain the position of power that will bring balance, for example, between the six economic ministers and the person of Antal Rogán and Sándor Pintér. So it is not what happens when you look at what the challenges are see demography, see health care, see education that should be answered by XXI. In the century, they look at the strength of the people in Fidesz, the strength of the people in the government, and with the button with which the coat is assigned these functions. And what they don't have, what they don't have, they don't have a professional, practically the entire public sphere, education, health care, social workers, and that's what Sándor Pintér gets as Minister of the Interior. It's quite an amazing logic, quite an amazing expression of values. Therefore, the Hungarian Movement cannot support a government that demotes the family to this extent at a time when it is most necessary to put fertility on a growing path again, and even not to set it on a growing path, but to multiply the number of children per mother, if we would like to talk about Hungarian Hungary at all later. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]] (In the notary seat, Dániel Z. Carpathian Replaced by Bakos Bernadett.)
u2022-05-17-54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. We'll get back to work. We now have the floor from the Group of Dialogue. I have been told that two Members will say what the Group of Dialogue has to say. I now give the floor to Team Leader Bence of Tordai. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You first.
u2022-05-17-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, We, along with the citizens, are watching this fidesz power wiener from the bottom. The Dialogue considers that Hungary is not to govern Hungary, but to govern Hungary. In order to control these people, a NER business government is created, and in the least they want to serve the people, but rather to serve their own power aspects and the greed of the fidesz oligarchs. What we're seeing is that people have been fooled. They started this election without any plans. They asked for permission not to say what they were asking for, and, on the one hand, they slapped the two million people in the face, who, on the other hand, voted and rejected your world according to a clearly defined vision, and also slapped the three million people who were forced to sign an empty check, which is apparently being abused. We expected that at least yesterday, a month and a half after the election, Viktor Orbán might tell us what his plans were for Hungary, but the thing is that again he failed to do so. Orbán said that Viktor Orbán was the future of Europe. However, the wisdom of the European people will obviously protect the continent from this terrible condition. But more importantly, how many great things this great man said about himself and his government, what he didn't say. He did not mention yesterday what plans he has for Hungary's future for the next four years and even for the next eight years. He spoke very little about how he wants to serve Hungarian people, and the bill that we are discussing is much more revealing. Hungary's ministries are listed in this bill. Hungary has 11 ministries in the next cycle. Six of the 11 ministries handle economic affairs, and 5 handle power matters, and no other area, no other subject, has an independent ministry in the fifth Orbán government. It's more of a self-discovery than you're interested in power and money, and you can't figure it out, which is why I said that we, the dialogueists, and the citizens, see this as a power pot that we look at from a distance, a distance and a bottom. Our best chance is to tell you in Parliament what it is you're about to do, to expose the next four, eight, who knows how many years you've planned for yourself. But in fact we know, we understand, at least we know what is going on here: the further construction of Hungary in Orbán, which we have already seen, is the construction of a power- and money-driven regime that has been going on for the last 12 years instead of building the future of a green Hungary, as we propose in the Dialogue. A just, green country, where everyone is safe, and where we focus on the most important decisions to serve people's everyday lives, where human well-being, not wealth, power, and similar aspects that drive you, determines what the government has to do and what Parliament has to do with. In your vision of Orbán, there is no real vision. People have no future. What future can a government provide, where there is no Green Ministry for Environment and Climate Affairs, where there is no Ministry of Social Affairs, where there is no Ministry of Education where there is no Ministry of Health? So you won't have such ministries. You have swept these tasks under some thought-to-be-reliable ordermaker, and you are not prepared to make any progress in these areas. You do not want to pursue green policy in a country where air pollution is so harsh that it is responsible for the deaths of 14,000 Hungarians every year. The European Union has launched infringement proceedings against Hungary for air pollution, because they protect the interests of the Hungarian people, and you are not, and you are not able to set up a ministry for this. We live in a country where our lakes dry up, where 37 of our watercourses have dried up periodically, where we are increasingly feeling the devastating reality of climate change every day, and it is not worth a single ministry to you. There will be no Ministry of Social Affairs in a country where there is a crisis of livelihoods, where inflation is on record for decades, where hundreds of thousands of people live less than 100,000 forints a month, and where there is no future for hundreds of thousands of children, because they grow up under conditions from which there is virtually no opportunity to prepare for a full, valuable life. [[12.10]] There is no future in Hungary if there is no Ministry of Education, in a country where, for example, 30 percent of young people in Nógrád county leave the school bench with a maximum primary education. A third of the children come out of school as functional illiterates in this county, and you don't want to deal with it. Nor are they concerned that the number of candidates for higher education has decreased by 40 percent over the last 12 years. Or, for example, 0.8 percent of Roma young people go to college or university, and you do not want a Ministry of Education in such a country. And they don't want to set up a health department in a country where 900,000 people don't have their own doctors. How are you going to fix this without doctors? Is it really a police officer who is entrusted with the development, restoration, repair of health care, or just the establishment of order and the prevention of another tens of thousands of people from health care? Because that's what's going to happen, and that's why they're doing the emergency themselves, so they can legally prevent underpaid and exploited health workers from quitting. So, there is no future in such a Hungary, but the fact is that you do not provide any solution to the problems of the present. In my speech before the agenda, I said that the livelihood crisis should be dealt with by reducing VAT and basic income in crisis management mode. There are issues of popular vote before the Parliament, these issues should also be dealt with immediately, raising the unprecedentedly low time of unemployment benefit from 3 to 9 months. This is the most fundamental expectation of the Hungarian people seeking work, and finally to stop serving foreign or eastern dictatorships and building campuses out of hundreds of billions, instead of providing housing for talented young Hungarians in rural areas. You have no solution to the housing crisis or the livelihood crisis, and this government does not seem to want to deal with the Hungarian future. This is the position of the Dialogue and, of course, we will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-17-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The floor of the Group of Dialogue will be continued by Mr Tamás Mellar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The most disturbing thing for me is what was said yesterday in Parliament, and also on the basis of today's debate, that we can expect nothing more from the new government but that it will become more and more anti-Western, and this anti-Westernism is, in my view, life-threatening for Hungary. I would like to connect here with my fellow Member, István Hiller, who also spoke about this, about the dangers of this. [[György Balla: Only he makes sense.]] History is a great teacher, and history teaches us that when Hungary and Hungarian society stood against and opposed Western military alliances, it always became a loser, and the result was a national tragedy and a great failure. I'm really afraid we're back on the wrong side, and we're on the wrong side. My fellow Members from KDNP, Mr Vejkey and Congressman Nacsa, have described the terrible religious and moral situation in the West, and that we should stay away from them. Well, let's take a look at ourselves. What percentage of the population in Hungary is truly religious? So not only does he claim to be so in the referendum, but he regularly goes to church and pays church taxes. I'll tell you, six percent. In Western countries, this is all much higher. [[Peter Cherry shakes his head.]] About morals... [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] These are facts, please, in the relationship of morality. In terms of corruption, are we, in fact, in a favourable position compared to the Scandinavian countries that we can turn them down? Well, obviously not. The third and perhaps the most important thing: on the issue of development, development and innovation, where do we stand, where is the Russian economy, to which Viktor Orbán wants to be so strongly linked? List me the high-tech products of the Russian economy. Not even in the military economy, and in military management, they couldn't keep high-tech properly, so you can see it from this war. And you can also see very well how we are actually doing with this thing, what innovation the NER companies have been able to show over the past 12 years, what high-tech products we have that we can take to the world market. Well, obviously nothing. We would only be able to obtain them properly if we really used Western relations intelligently. A government is now being formed in Hungary, the ministers of which are not politicians, but not experts, but excellent power technicians. People who will certainly be good at their job, who will be good at representing the interests of the government, who will be able to communicate well, there will be no talking, there will be no embarrassing issues, they are really professional people, and they will indeed be. Prime Minister Orbán's goal was this, because he knows exactly what years will come here. Because it is undoubtedly true that there is a global economic crisis, it is undoubtedly true that there is a war on our side, but it is also true that Hungary has established an economic system for the past 12 years, which, although loyal to Viktor Orbán, depends on him, but which is not productive or competitive. This economy, this Hungarian economy, cannot survive without external resources. The question is that it will be sufficient external resources as it has been for the past 12 years. EU funds are probably not very available, we are not going to be able to get additional funds from the Russians, and borrowing will not really be possible because the debt-to-GDP ratio is already above 80 per cent. In other words, this new government will have only one task, to try to deal with the crisis in some way. And I do not even say that it cannot succeed, because the Orbán government can get away with this crisis if it can agree with NER entrepreneurs in some way, so that they can agree that they have fewer and fewer resources, that they can agree with Hungarian society, that they can accept that they are getting weaker and that their living conditions are getting worse. But there is one thing they will not be able to do: there will be no restructuring in Hungary and there will be no catching up. You have always referred to the high economic growth rate in Hungary in recent years and how low unemployment is. If you look at the performance of Socialist Hungary, you will see that between 1960 and 89 there was an average of 3.5 percent economic growth and zero percent unemployment. And was it an efficient, productive economy? It was not effective and it was not productive, it could only live from outside sources, so we were indebted. The same is the case now, we are building the same economy, which is inoperable in itself. Well, I don't want to contribute to that, and I'm not giving you my name. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2022-05-17-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Lóránt László Keresztes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with those speakers who have argued that this is an important debate, because we also need to talk about the challenges we are seeing now, the problems that we are experiencing, whether in recent years, in recent decades, the problems ahead of us, and the vision. I have also discovered, in this debate, not only the great speech by István Hiller, the ambition to talk about the vision, but I will also briefly respond to and respond to them. Although I was not here yesterday in the Parliament, I was in the Highlands about the terrible pollution affecting Sajó, but I listened to the Prime Minister's inauguration speech, and I also thought there were some specifics that I thought it was necessary to respond to here. This is also related to the list of ministries. [[12.20]] I think that there is no debate and there has been no debate today that, of course, after an election victory, a Prime Minister has the right to propose a government structure; obviously, no one has contested this, but I think that they must accept that we have to give our opinion on this, because this is not only an opportunity; we have the right to do it, but we also have an obligation to do it. Obviously, a detailed and meaningful debate on this could be held if you had made it public about the portfolio of individual ministerial names in particular. So it is essential, in some cases, that we can say which ministries and which ministers are under the control of the porpholios dealing with issues of national strategic importance are not exactly known. So obviously I will have a lot of questions, too, and I will look at you, and I will try to see who might already know the Prime Minister's decision, and you know what certain ministries will be responsible for. I think, by the way, that a good governance structure should be one of the basic elements and, let us say, we do not agree with your proposal to reveal from the ministries' names and from the Ministry's proposals exactly what areas they will deal with and where the responsibility of one ministry ends and where it belongs to the other. Obviously, this, as István Hiller pointed out, will clearly cause problems for a large number of ministries with similar portfolios. We also agree with the fundamental need to change the structure of the previous government, because in very different circumstances, the government must work in response to other challenges, but obviously we, on the opposition side, have had other problems with the structure of the previous government. We obviously disagree with the fact that they were able to find solutions to all these problems, or that the opportunity, the intention or the willingness to respond to the visible and global challenges that have been achieved in the previous cycle has been revealed. I would like to take some practical examples now, and I very much hope that either Mr Secretary of State or any of my fellow members of the Government will come to my aid to understand the Prime Minister's proposal. I ask whether one of the present State Secretarys of State or pro-government representatives can tell us which ministry will be responsible for dealing comprehensively with one of the strategic issues of water. So we see precisely these challenges that we are facing. We have talked about the state of our lakes, the lack of water, we have talked about desertification, we have talked about environmental harms, the environmental state of our rivers, our standing waters, but we can talk about water base protection, problems affecting the water utilities sector. Vane is a representative, a pro-government representative who knows which ministry, which minister will be in charge of water matters. I would ask you to indicate that, if there is such a character among you, such a pro-government politician, who has any idea who I should at least turn to, if I want to ask a question about this in a little more detail. I think you do not dispute it either, as Prime Minister did not dispute that these are strategic challenges, for example, to deal with the situation in the water utilities sector, because one of the most important things is on the brink of collapse, if not the provision of the most important public service. We are talking about a shortage of thousands of billions of funds in the next 15 years, and this problem will hardly be dealt with if we do not see a clear power, we do not see a government player who will be responsible for this very important and strategic area that will determine Hungary's future. I do not really see that any pro-government representative has an idea of who will be involved in water management and water issues. I'd like to give you another example. It has already been mentioned at this meeting today that climate change, environmental destruction is the most serious challenge of our time, and we also know that the municipalities and cities are at the frontline of the fight against this and the effects of climate change. And here's a strategic issue: transport, the state of public transport, who's going to deal with the development of this. So who will deal with the development of a system of urban public transport, the organisation of a common concept of public transport, the implementation of the many years-long and backward transport reform? In this context, who will be responsible for the availability of resources to be used for this transport for the operation of local authorities, and who will be responsible for enforcing the rural policy aspects of transport policy and public transport? I am thinking here, basically, of peripheral, fragmented settlements in crisis situations. Are you going to be responsible for this area, unlike the previous cycle? Will you be Minister of this strategic sector? I don't see anyone on the government side giving me a meaningful answer, or at least a signal to me to see what you might see, Prime Minister, but I'm a little concerned about the fact that you weren't responsible for this area in the previous term. Several people have raised the issue of environmental protection, environmental destruction. I think that there may be no discussion about what a huge challenge this is. Yesterday, Prime Minister, I listened to him in his speech, and he referred to the importance of battery production as a strategic sector in the government's plans. We have also seen here in the previous cycle that the legal institution of the special economic zones has been created, which virtually removes the involvement of local communities from the management of local authorities, making it impossible for certain investments and greenfield investments. And we know what an amazing emergency has developed in the area of one of these factories, Göd. We know that the research commissioned by civilians, NGOs, has revealed that chemicals used in battery production have appeared in groundwater. I think that this is an indication of serious problems. On the one hand, you have destroyed the institutional system of environmental protection and you have not been able to demonstrate this pollution by the environmental system, and on the other hand, you have had to ensure that the investigation takes place; the Gödért Association has ordered this research. At the same time, they are now confronted with government actors in a fight where they want to act in the interests of the people. The water authority is now part of disaster management, and here, in the Göd area, disaster management, which carries out water authority tasks, has refused to publish and publish the results of the water inspections of the various monitoring wells. So who's going to be responsible for this when you want everything under the economy? The legal institution of the special economic zones has been established and the environmental protection issue in the current governance structure cannot be implemented in any way. These aspects are practically subordinated to economic interests. I would like to mention one more concrete example, which you and other LMP representatives have had a lot of discussions about in the last cycle and in the previous cycles. Paks II. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also mentioned this yesterday how important this is for the energy supply, according to the government side's statement and position, the expansion of Paks and the construction of the new Paks blocks. In the last cycle, I dealt directly with the Prime Minister on two occasions with the numerous problems of a thousand Paks enlargements bleeding from a thousand wounds, and both times he avoided the answer, Prime Minister, and he indicated that, according to his government approach, he should bring into the government a specialist who could handle such a gigantic investment from a professional side, and that was Minister János Süli in the previous government cycle. Well, now we can see that this government concept has failed, and this argument system, which Prime Minister said has failed, is not a list of the Paks enlargement, because in the absence of time, I cannot do it to list the many problems, but we can see that Minister Péter Szijjártó is likely to be under the control of the Paks II project. It has been visible so far, since it has been heard, let's say, that the plate ringing from your ranks, from the government, that Minister Szijjártó has often gone to Moscow to negotiate instead of Minister Süli. But we also saw that there were conflicts with Minister Palkovic when it came to the issue of nuclear safety, the process of authorisation. They've practically tied John Süli's hand. But what's the solution now? So the issue of nuclear safety, the issue of security of energy supply and, above all, the issue of the security of Hungarian people and the security of the environment now falls under a kind of wealth or foreign policy priority? So now professionalism is no longer important for Project Paks II? Will the continuation of this gigantic project be the victim of this type of government involvement? This is not coherent with what we have heard from you during the previous government cycle. Well, we can say that it is obvious that environmental protection will be subject to economic interests, profit interests, in this government. Obviously, we can't agree with that in any way. We can say that this government is practically in this respect, so if we look at environmental issues and economic aspects, it can be put forward as a committee implementing a four-year investment plan, much more than in the governance structure, which interprets social, economic and environmental issues as a comprehensive system, as it should be, in line with the challenges of our time. And I think that, if you have not already done so, you will not agree with us on the question of environmental sustainability, but I would like to quote you here, a report from the National Sustainable Development Council led by the Speaker. [[12.30]] This is the way it is:, Our country is still in a sustainability crisis. None of our four national resources are in good shape, and the majority of the indicators that are characteristic of them are not only lower than the EU average, but also worse than the countries of Visegrád in a similar historical and economic situation. Today's poor sustainability performance means tomorrow's weaker social and economic well-being. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is how the report goes forward:. The two key areas of the proposed sustainability change are the curbing of the excessive use of natural resources, a stronger display of environmental and natural resource constraints and a greater increase in human resources, with a more timely and lasting impact, the first step of which is to make substantial changes in education. So this is the establishment of the National Sustainable Development Council, and, yes, this body is headed by the Speaker of the House. I think that the ideas expressed here, with which we should all agree, do not go back to the planned governance structure, which we can assume is not transparent, because you have not published what some ministries will be dealing with. I still have time for a very short return. [[It's constant noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Congressman Nacsa pointed out that there can be no other interpretation of the concept of democracy than the opposition voting in favour of the proposed governance structure of the winning side. I would like to point out to Congressman Nacsa that I would argue with this, just as you did when you were in opposition last time and did not support the government structure of the then government. Therefore, I think that it is not a basis for us to do so, especially if we do not agree, so obviously we will not do it. I would also like to respond briefly to Mr Vejkey's speech. He spoke of the emergence of a global world order, confronting the interests of the nation state. I think there's a very powerful incoherence here, a foreign word, a contradiction in how you've acted and what you're saying. We have seen, not only in the last cycle, but in recent cycles, that you have been fond of reaching a strategic agreement with global multi-businesses, you have always been ready to serve the profits of multi-company companies, whether they are against the interests of workers or the protection of our environmental and natural resources. You have not taken one step to make the activities of thousands of lobbyists around the European Commission more transparent and restricted in Brussels, so that the functioning of the European Union is truly more democratic. You have always been prepared to accept, without any restrictions, the ratification of free trade agreements in the interests of global large companies. This reduces the possibility of protecting natural resources, but even more is the problem of reducing the possibility of protecting workers' rights. You are talking about Christian Europe. They like to be friends with European dictators who are not friends of Christian Europe, I can think of President Erdoğan, who is using the Turkish minority in Europe as a political weapon for example [[Lőrinc Nacsa: NATO Member State!]] and calls on them not to be integrated. I think, however, that we can agree that we do not need more Europe, but a better Europe, a European Union that gives us the opportunity to ensure prosperity in all regions of Europe, and that we can ensure that the rural regions that are failing are caught up; we need a Europe where we can really fight for the protection of natural resources; we can think of the environmental disaster affecting Sajó; we need a Europe that truly respects and supports the protection of the rights of indigenous national minorities. So I think it is possible to agree with a lot of things, Mr Vejkey, with what you are saying at the level of passwords and words, but I think it is time to finally govern and act accordingly, because you have not done so in the previous cycle or in the previous cycles. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-05-17-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am now asking my fellow members of the Government to take their seats and allow some speeches to be made, because some are still to come. I will wait for my fellow Members to take their seats. [[It's a short break.]] Thank you very much. Now it's time for Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Bence Rétvári to Dr. Balázs Orbán: Close, close?]]
u2022-05-17-61	No, no. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the present case, the author is quite rightly not the government, and I have done so by listening to the keynote speeches and then responding to questions which, however, concern the governance cycle of the last four years, and can also be guiding indicators for the next period. It is not the first time in this House, but it is very important to say from the government side that, according to the fundamental principle of Hungarian constitutional thinking, the government does not have a prime minister, but the Prime Minister has a government. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán believes that government formation is not about personal issues, the composition of the government is not about meeting personal ambitions, but our most important task is perhaps the best word, and I have thought about it a lot to make our government future-proof. So the government must be set up in such a way that its members can respond adequately to the challenges of the future. It was mentioned in the debate where Hungary was located. I think Vice-President Hiller has spoken about this for the longest time, and I also think that yesterday's Prime Minister's speech, in fact, was quite clear. Our place is in Europe, and as a member of the NATO federal system, we imagine Hungary's future because it provides the most peaceful framework with the greatest room for manoeuvre for achieving the Hungarian national goals. However, if we start talking about this, what is our problem with Europe and why we are critical in the context of the processes in individual European capitals, in order to avoid misunderstandings: we are not crying about Europe's history. Of course, Europe's history is full of war and suffering, but it is fundamentally glorious, and it is about how this continent has been able to extend its cultural, political and economic influence over the past centuries to other continents. So in this sense, we celebrate the history of Europe. The problem begins when we see that Europe's future may not be something to celebrate. Identity issues have been discussed. I think that no one on the Hungarian right has an identity problem, and we think that Hungary has always been part of Europe. I can't imagine a situation where something, a freighter, would come here and tow us somewhere else. So when over a thousand years ago our ancestors decided to move here and form a state here, this question was decided. So we propose not to create an identity problem, but to stick to the ideas of Árpád and St. Stephen. What is causing the problem, and what you have referred to, Mr President, is that, at the moment, there is a problem of identity between liberal and left. Because what you described as Western thinking is in fact not in the context of what I have said so far, but in terms of what is the engine of Hungary's renewal, the idea of home and progress. According to this vision system, it is the engine of the idea of home and progress, says the Westerners, that in Western Europe there is a way of life, a way of life, an economic, social, cultural system, and we can be successful if we copy it as accurately and accurately as possible and bring it to Hungary. For hundreds of years intellectually, this type of thinking is the basis for this kind of copying, the idea of transferring political, economic and cultural systems. The problem is there, and that is why the liberal side is in crisis, because in the Western world they too feel the problems that we all feel, and pattern tracking does not seem sensible. There are two kinds of answers to that. If you turn to the right, you'll see that you still need to follow a pattern. The ideas of the Momentum and the other parties are quite clear: ignore this problem, ignore that the model is not necessarily good, learn from their mistakes, we have a dog's duty to continue copying, because if we do not copy, we are not good Europeans and we are not good Hungarians. [[12.40]] And then it is possible to apply a different system of ideas. Let's try to talk about what the Hungarian interest is, who we are, where we come from, where we go, where we want to go. It also has traditions on the left and on the opposition side. I think, if we are allowed to go into this political science discussion, that the disastrous result of the April 2022 elections from the point of view of the left is due to the disappearance of this type of left-wing thinking from the list, which has disappeared from this political system. The vast majority of Hungarian people live their lives and do not deal with political analyses, but they somehow sense this. And when they think that they are trying to sell canned products, ideological products, which are already expired in Western Europe, they instinctively say no, they instinctively join in unity, and this is why this site was able to earn the trust of so many voters in April. I am open and this side is open to discussions about the future of Europe and the definition of Hungary's location on these issues. I just want to say that we don't have an identity problem. We're not insecure. I think that we are in the right place, and we would like to see Hungary on our own axis, if the Member has already quoted Széchenyi. I have listened to the criticisms about the structure of the government and its priorities. I'd like to put an end to a misunderstanding. There's no area that's behind us. There are no areas you've talked about as if you're in the background. That's just not true. What is and cannot be found in the name and seal of a ministry does not yet indicate which areas are the most important for the government and which areas are less important. If you look at the results of the last 12 years, you will see that most of the results are linked to an area that has not been mentioned, only partially or even in the name of the ministries. I also understand that in the election campaign, you campaigned to restore the Ministry of Education and Health and offered your own wallets to voters. Well, from before 2010, we have very bad memories of these ideas, because when the left was talking about separate wallets, it usually meant two things. One was that ministers were in some way overgrown, and in some way any important potentate had to be given a position. If we want to increase the number of ministries in this sense, we cannot contribute to this kind of bureaucracy. The other: it meant two things during left-wing government that it was an independent wallet. One was that this was the sure sign that nothing would happen in that area for four years. Let's have a separate wallet, sit there with the minister, whose job it is to consolidate the sector and, as far as possible, do nothing in that area. If you wanted to have a separate Ministry of Health and Education in that sense, we would not have been able to support this. I would also like to say to Mr Arató that in 2006, 2010 there was a separate Ministry of Health and Education under left-wing governments. And what did these ministries give the country? A tuition and a visit fee. This does not require an independent Ministry of Health and Education. So I would like to suggest to you that, with a little more restraint, and at least those Members who have been involved in the government's operation earlier, pay a little more attention to these areas. If we look at all the areas that you have challenged or criticised, we will be able to report progress over the last 12 years. For example, there is the issue of higher education. Of course, the figures on higher education will only be produced now, and the first data will probably be available at the European level at the beginning of next year, but it can be said that Hungary will be among the most poetic European countries in higher education thanks to the conversions and model changes that have been carried out in the last cycle in spite of the coronal virus epidemic. The second significant result was in the field of health, without an independent Ministry of Health and with a coronal virus epidemic. We spend more than 1700 billion forints on health care than in 2010, and in this period we have seen an unprecedented increase in wages and the withdrawal of gratuity money. Both have been expected by every Hungarian voter since the change of regime, which I believe can be welcomed regardless of political affiliation. In the case of environmental protection, I also suggest that we not talk, but act. In the previous cycle, we announced a government program, a climate protection action plan, in which there were commitments not soaked with onion ideology, but concrete steps: this is how many trees we plant, so we clean Hungary from illegal landfills, we ban single-use plastics in this way and with such timing. So there are concrete commitments in which to cooperate, I think, once again, beyond party policy. This is the kind of openness and attitude that has been missing from the left. The other question: I understand that greening is important for left-wing politicians in energy matters, but let me also bring the issue of energy security here. All of Europe is talking about how energy will be produced in the coming years, and if there is energy, how much it will cost and how we will get it, and what geopolitical blackmail we are exposed to by various actors from the West and the East, and how we can resist these blackmails in terms of strengthening national sovereignty in the country. I understand that there are ideas that we naturally support, because in some way they contribute to energy security, that the share of renewable energy sources needs to be increased. For example, we would like to increase the share of solar panels to multiples in electricity supply. But until we can come to a common understanding on certain strategic issues, such as the construction of the Paks nuclear power plant block, there is nothing to talk about, because that means that the position of the opposition is to stand up now, sing the Anthem and shoot ourselves in the leg. This is the position that can simply not be supported as a responsible government policy. And if I may, I would like to make one last political comment. Respect for the exception, there was opposition, but I saw that on the left they forgot to change the disk after 3 April. We've been hearing in the last several hours' debate that this minister has failed, this government has failed, this area has failed. No! Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, on 3 April, the left failed and the conclusions should be drawn from this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-17-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, No one came forward for a two-minute speech. There will be regular speeches. I give the floor first from the LMP Group to Mrs Bernadett Bakos, notary of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-63	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps there is no debate between the government and the opposition now that we are debating the structure of a government that will have to endure parallel crises. However, it is clear from the list of ministries that agreement is exactly as far as we are concerned. What we can read from the proposal that we are discussing here is that the problems that we perceive as the most burning are being denied rather than solved by the next government. Unfortunately, in our view, an economic crisis is coming, which will create serious additional burdens for Hungarian people. Tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people could be in an impossible situation without their own faults, and existentials and livelihoods would be at risk. In the wake of the economic crisis, there is always the social crisis that the government has to respond to. We need to help people and, as much as possible, to those who really can't manage without the help of the state. [[12.50]] This is perhaps the most burning and important task of the current government, to be able to detect signs of the social crisis, and to be able to provide solutions and help quickly, so that at least in such a crisis, it is not for the government to support those who manage themselves, and it is for those who really need help; if we were to be there after 12 years, the most important goal of the government is not to listen to the most serious social problems, but to solve them. Yet, if we suddenly look at the structure of the next government, we cannot really say which ministry will be responsible for this. As the problem is, if we do not see the forest from the tree, it is also a problem if we forget that investment, development and the economy in general are not for themselves, but the ultimate goal is for people to thrive, and this structure simply shows that this government has more importance than people. We do not believe that, as profit cannot overtake a person, we cannot make this mistake in the pursuit of continuous growth for itself, and this government structure tells us that they do not see it yet. In parallel with the economic crisis, not only is it approaching, but there is already an increasingly serious energy crisis, the price of fossil fuels has gone away, and this is particularly serious for Hungary because in the last 12 years Fidesz has banned and has hit renewable energy development with a special tax instead of supporting it. The solution to energy dependence is not veto and not American shale gas, but energy independence, and Hungary has only one way to do this, developing renewable capacity and energy efficiency projects. Here I would refer to Balázs Orbán's earlier words: that we should not be blackmailed from the West or the East. Unfortunately, to put it mildly, it does not appear on the structure of the current government that Fidesz would have recognized all of this. Hungary's energy strategy should be completely redesigned, and this should also be reflected in the governance structure, but this is not the case at the moment. Naivan, we would think that the end of the Paks Ministry means that this unnecessary and expensive, risky project is a thing of the past, but unfortunately, we all suspect that in reality it is only that it is so embarrassing that it is better to hide it as much as possible in a more transparent government structure from cycle to cycle. Last but not least, as a Green Party, we need to talk about the saddest, but least surprising, deficiency. Our view is that the climate crisis is the most serious problem in the period ahead. We think it is time to accept the responsibility that we are the last generation to do anything about climate change, that every decision we make will affect the fate of our children and grandchildren. Although Fidesz's position on green issues has changed very dynamically in recent years, we can no longer be sure whether there is agreement between us on the existence of climate change. But ultimately, it doesn't matter whether the problem exists as a courtesy, because it's clear, looking at the structure that they don't want to do it for the solution. If it is referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Member State concerned shall notify the Commission of the reasons for its decision. In the first century, there is no Green Ministry, the provocation, the So let us be clear. If we can define green policy, we also know that the counterpoint of it is called Fidesz. In some ways, this structure is honest, because it shows that they do not want to maintain even the appearance of sustainability playing a role in their decisions in any way. From their own point of view, it is understandable that they do not want to appoint a Green Minister, so that he has to explain himself here in front of Parliament from week to week because the government's policy is not green. But what we're trying to say is, on our part, they're definitely not getting away with it. Green vision is a comprehensive global vision that must play a role in every decision, from budget planning to innovation to investment and foreign affairs. Therefore, from the perspective of Hungary's Green Party, the new structure only means that we will have tough and serious discussions in principle with all ministers in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, LMP, Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-05-17-64	Thank you very much, notary. We will continue the debate. István Hiller, Member of the MSZP Group, former vice-president, will speak again. Here you go. [[György Balla intervenes.]]
u2022-05-17-65	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Not to abuse their patience, I would like to bring back two thoughts. One is the reflection of Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Deputy Minister, on what he calls an identity dispute. First, the question must be raised that it is possible and worth continuing an identity dispute in the Hungarian Parliament, or it is only worth arguing about a current law, a passage or some other person's opinion. What I'm saying is, not only is it worth it, but why else are we here if we're not talking about the future, fate, direction of our country? In the fact that, by the way, there are different opinions and there may be, it is the job of the Parliament to conflict with this, but that the Hungarian Parliament should only allow for who has said what in the last three minutes, and otherwise what I think about and what I do not think of him, I find this ridiculous. By the way, about what orientation it must be or should be the future of our country and this nation, I will argue about it especially now and in the future, and I will stand by what I have said. At the same time, I consider it one-sided, so I ask you to correct your thoughts, whether we're just adapting or just forming. If it had been or wasn't at all, then, please, it could not have happened that the first Baroque church in Hungary, in the territory of then Hungary, was built in the city of Nagyszombat, so that the model of Il Gesù in Rome, because it is a sample takeover; otherwise, if we just adapted, this nation would not have survived. Therefore, I consider the unity of the strength and capacity of adaptation and formation to be the essence of Hungarian policy within the European Union. We need to be able to achieve what is in our interest, and, of course, to accept what is good, and not to contradict everything, because it doesn't lead to anything. Ugocsa non coronat, nice thing to ask the rest of the county. Because it's a country like this. Undoubtedly, Ugocsa said it was non coronat, and the rest was coronant. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] That's just the way it is, and that's the unity that we need to be able to express. At the same time, I do not want the debate to remain truncated, because the issue of Hungarian culture has not yet been discussed. As I have criticised and criticised the position or position of a number of areas within the governance structure, I must say that I see a fantasy in linking culture and innovation throughout the governance structure. Here's the thing: I see the fantasy, I don't see the guarantee yet, so I have to tell you my reservations in time. While you just said that the operation of independent ministries was typical of left-wing governments, yes and no, that the independent cultural wallet happened to be the first to be created after the change of regime, I had the opportunity to lead this country on my own cultural portfolio. I must say to you, and this, please consider, is permanent. In the event of stable economic growth, if economic growth reaches at least 3 per cent, but mainly exceeds 3 per cent in this country, it is worth maintaining a separate cultural wallet for Hungary, because we have a way of doing so when culture can be a priority for an isolated country providing great performance and opportunity in the field of culture. Since gastronomy is part of culture, I'm trying to describe how everyone understands what I'm talking about when I don't see the guarantee yet. So when culture and innovation are linked, I say once again, I see the fantasy in it, there are two recipes: one for the Viennese slice and the other for the goulash soup. In the case of the Viennese slice, let's face it, it's possible to serve the Viennese slice with rice, potatoes and traditional recipes, but I haven't seen a living person before who would have preferred onion potato salad than the Viennese slice. What I want to say in English is that if they connect innovation and culture, there is a danger that innovation will suppress culture because of its influence and economic potential. That's the danger. The ability of culture to assert its interests is different from that of an economic area, although a great director and a talented actress will never be able to win the debate in the TV studio. However, there is another recipe, this is worth it! Think about it. The Hungarian goulash soup consists of several ingredients. It's stupid to eat onions separately, potatoes and meat raw. The recipe for goulash soup is that all flavors put it in, all ingredients put their taste in it, and together give you your own, the unique one that we call goulash soup. [[13.00]] To make sure there's no misunderstanding, I'm not talking about anything funny. If innovation and culture can cooperate well in Hungary and, let's say, culture is not whipped cream on the cake, then the good time of Hungarian culture can come. Therefore, let them not subjugate, but put the issue of culture and innovation together in this ministry. I see it in the steering structure, the exercise will show for the next four years. I'll be there. If it's good, I'll say it's good, if you don't like it, I'll criticize it. Take this from me. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-17-66	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr György Balla, Group Director. Here you go.
u2022-05-17-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I have listened with great interest to the debate in which the opposition has taken part in a subject which, thanks to God, they have had nothing to do with for a long time, because the list of ministries is clearly the responsibility of the governing parties and the government. I have been less pleased, in fact, that it is irrelevant whether I was happy or not, what was said in the debate, because it seems that you have not learned much. The thing is, on April 3rd, there was an election where you suffered your greatest defeat, and we won our greatest victory. The result of the greatest defeat was that each party leader remained in place. I believe that you have concluded that you have no responsibility in defeat. But for some reason, people voted the way they voted. Could it be a little in your mind that we haven't done anything wrong in the last 12 years? It doesn't seem to have come up in this debate, because all they did was say the same thing as they did for the past 12 years. I am telling you now, fellow Members of the opposition, this will not be enough. A couple of specifics. I am not surprised that the main emphasis will be on the independent Ministry of Education and Health, respect for the exception. The independent ministry is very good if not independent, very bad. That was the whole point of what you said. I'd like to warn you, say, Congressman Harvesto. There was an independent Ministry of Education and Culture during, say, Bálint Magyar. There is no teacher in Hungary who would not say for those four years that it was the worst period for Hungarian teachers. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true! Grumbles and interrogations in the benches of the governing parties, among them: Yes! Exactly!]] It's just like it was. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] independent education and culture... [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] There was also an independent Ministry of Education and Culture when the second was the Gyurcsány government. You were talking about educated heads of men in education. Have you ever looked in the mirror? Have you ever looked in the mirror? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You were a secretary of state for culture! You think that was better than this? Can you put that in my eyes like that? ! [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Gergely Harvesto: I can because it's true!]] I don't think you should say it here, but look at the mirror first, and then talk. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] But it's okay to talk about health care. Do you remember the independent Ministry of Health with Lajos Molnár and Ágnes Horváth? Do you remember him? [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Remember!]] Mr. Tordai, do you remember? [[László Szászfalvi: Turdai was a baby!]] He wasn't that young. What, by the way, did the independent Ministry of Health give you for health care? [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] A safe, a visitation fee and a hospital allowance. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Congratulations! But let's go a little earlier. That December 5, 2004, does that mean anything to you? I'm sure it's nothing to the Momentum, because it's gonna remind you of another referendum that they're probably gonna vote on right now. Shame! But in that referendum, there was another referendum against hospital privatisation, and it was necessary because your independent Ministry of Health assisted the socialist government at that time to privatise all Hungarian hospitals and to prevent them by means of a referendum. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] The point is, and it would be good for them to understand it, it is unlikely that we will succeed, we have said it many times, but perhaps it is not the success of a sector that depends on it being managed by an independent ministry or operating in another form. It depends on how a government works or doesn't work. In this connection, I would like to say that you were replaced by two thirds in 2010, and we have been elected four times by two thirds, ever since. That doesn't mean that they shouldn't be critical, it's just the style, the attitude, the revelations, you don't know, and that's how you do it. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Demagogy!]] The demagogy, you'd have to take it back a little bit... [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Brenner Koloman from Nacha Lawrence's mouth!]] You'd have to take it a little bit back in order to have a normal dialogue. It would not be a problem if they were somewhat more prepared for Parliament's meeting. Mr András Fekete-Győr's first big comment. [[András Fekete-Győr: Not the first!]] The Member said that your MEPs went to Brussels to bring EU funds back to Hungary. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: To Katalin Czech!]] That's great, but what you didn't know was that they wanted to give it directly to Katalin the Czech Republic. [[András Fekete-Győr: For hospitals, schools, jobs!]] The other thing is, I'm... I'm serious, I've been trying to listen very carefully. But how is it that you've asked us at least twice to make it clear that we're not neutral about the war? What? ! I don't know if you were in or out yesterday because I can't keep track of this. But if they were in there by chance, they would have heard from the Hungarian Prime Minister at least five times that we are members of NATO, we are members of a military federal system. How can we be neutral? How can we be neutral? If you hadn't known before, you could have at least learned it yesterday. I beg you, a little more preparation. A little, at least more competently, if you want to address it in the Hungarian Parliament! [[László Szászfalvi: Read the newspaper! It's constant noise. Bence of Turdai interrupts. The president's gonna ring the bell. Bence of Turdai: We're listening! We're cheering!]] Congressman Hiller and the West. I understand the underlying motive. I understand the intention of trying to make it look like there are westerns and anti-westerns. But you know that's not true. You asked me if the West was such a bad place. I don't think so, not at all. But if we ask ourselves that today's Paris is the better place or the better place 20 years ago, I think there would be no debate again. Where we're going, I don't think it's good, and I'm sure you don't think it's good. By the way, we do not have a problem with the West, but we have a problem with the Western, Brussels policy. If you ask me that Budapest is a good place, then I will say that yes, a very good place. But by the way, I think the leadership of the capital is a disaster, and it's taking the capital in a very bad direction. [[Bence Tordai: According to Budapesters, the previous one was a disaster!]] If you ask me that every decision is wrong in Brussels, then I say no. But decisions that determine the fate of Europe as a whole, including Hungary, such as the energy embargo, do you support it? I don't think so. Would you break down the fence and let migrants into Hungary? I don't think so. Do you agree with genderideology, Congressman? We haven't talked about it yet, but I don't think so. The fact that we are giving this voice makes our position clear, in a club, in an organization where we are members, we say our opinion, and we want someone else to listen to it, I don't think it's a problem. Sneaky way to serve alien interests, because I dare not raise my word or anything else, let's not talk about that. Now, that's the problem. But it's not a matter of whether or not I'm from the West. Everyone in Hungary is western, only there are those who are fighting for their own country, some who are not, for various reasons. That's the difference. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-17-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Director. Lóránt László Keresztes has applied for a repeated speech from the LMP group. There you go. You have the floor. [[13.10]]
u2022-05-17-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, And I, too, would like to ask the patience of the Honourable Parliament, very briefly to try to respond to what has been said. First of all, Congressman Balla, allow me, I think that we can all do so in order to preserve the dignity of the Parliament if we do not take personal action out of political debates. [[Intruder from the benches of the ruling parties.]] I think that we are all here and we are ready to engage in political and political debates. He is ready, let us say, Mr Arato, to prove this in recent cycles, but I think that this would certainly be forward-looking if both sides were to ignore it for both sides. You are absolutely right, Mr Balla, that the opposition's attitude is obviously not correct, so we have the role here in Parliament, and it is not right to react to everything by denying it because of the political position and by denying it. But I think that there is a tendency here since 2010 that it is very difficult to carry out constructive opposition work in the Hungarian Parliament, because this was typical of the LMP faction, that we have been this way in Parliament many times, and sometimes, not only with unfounded justification, but without justification, have rejected the proposals that were really about fundamental issues of national strategic importance, and which, by the way, have been submitted with the best intentions and with the right expertise. And I think that when we got to the point in a pandemic that you also doubted that the opposition parties were on the side of the Hungarian people or the virus, I also think that it was also the crossing of the red line. However, we can say that the LMP fraction will continue to be constructive, and that we will approach all such issues in this way, but I would ask that you, too, do a little revival of your own views and always look at the proposals that come from the opposition side in substance. And here I would like to respond to Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. The importance of the ability to assert interest raised by Congressman Hiller, seeing the structure of the government, is what we are discussing, after all. Well, we have had a great deal of concern about the relationship between environmental protection and nature protection's ability to assert interest in your planned governance structure with the power and intention to enforce economic interests. And when we see cases like this, we've heard that you're a high-profile strategic sector in battery production, and you have to sue your government to make sure that chemical substances released from the battery factory are at least able to see the weight of the problem when it comes to contamination of the drinking water base, then I think that this concern is well founded on our part. And you must also acknowledge that economic interests, or, if we are to say, such a case, the ability of short-term economic interests to assert interest in a government that is national can never prevent the interests of the common defence of our natural resources. Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Balázs Orbán Deputy Minister, You have listed certain results here. I believe that where there are results, it must be recognised, but you have also indicated, for example, that you have succeeded in achieving results in setting up illegal landfills. We are not having a debate here with Minister Süli. The most critical example of this issue was revealed last year when, at some point in the beginning of the year, several thousand tons of plastic grains were delivered from Italy, with no concrete chance of being processed as planned. I had to report twice in order for the authorities to move, and, following our announcement, the authorities found that this huge thousands of tons of plastic mountains in a small town were a serious fire hazard, and they then carried the waste from Italy for 130 days. I very much hope, Minister, that you see these problems, you perceive them, and, to say the least, in addition to the communication of success, some self-criticism is included in your work. Here, referring a little bit back to our debate or speech before the agenda and the response you have given to it, I think that the case of the natural disaster affecting Sajó is also a matter where perhaps a slightly different position should be taken. In fact, the answer I received from the Water Management was very correct, which concerned the various measurement parameters of water samples taken from the river on the border, on this side of the border, but I think we should agree that we should be responsible for what is happening in the Highlands, in order to protect our natural resources, our common natural resources here in the Carpathian Basin, together with, I don't think you feel that if such an ecological disaster occurs and the wildlife dies in a river for tens of kilometers, that we can be freed from it. But even so, I very much hope that, even if this has not been mentioned in your comments, you will act very firmly and hard against the Slovak Government, the Slovak Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Slovak Ministry of the Environment, or against them, in order to finally take action to finally stop this brutal pollution. That's what we talked about before the agenda. I was there yesterday, and there was this terrible incident, or there's this terrible case now that there's been a spill in Sajó for three months, and no one has done anything, not even a trace of any kind of work being done there or of any professional presence. At the same time, 2.5 tons of extremely serious, dangerous mining water is poured into Sajó on a daily basis, which virtually destroyed life in Sajó's Slovak section. So I, too, very much trust, Minister of State and honourable members of the Government, that you have made a bad record in this debate, and you can actually see where you need to correct your operation and devote more space to the protection of the environment, to the protection of natural resources, because without it you cannot guarantee the future of the Hungarian nation. What I can say is that the Group of the Green Party of Hungary will be supportive of all issues that can be covered, and in all decisions that are in the interest of the Hungarian people, both socially and economically and environmentally, the Hungarian nation, we will be supportive, but we will play a harsh opposition role in the event that you idly watch such environmental destruction, or that your current economic interests are put ahead of the protection of our natural resources. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-05-17-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Bence Tordai, Head of Group, from the Dialogue Group, has also applied for a repeated speech. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. [[It's grumpy.]]
u2022-05-17-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Although I feel as though the president wants to put pressure on repeated speeches, and I also feel that fidesz and KDNP citizens are impatient to come in and do their work for which they are paid by citizens. [[Morai, interrogations and clearness from the benches of the governing parties: Ouch!]] It's very embarrassing. I get it. I know they just like to vote. [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Hadházy... applause from the benches of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I am pleased to applaud you when I tell you what your job is, but yes, it is also your job to participate in these debates, so you will now be forced to listen to some opposition speeches about the debate on what Hungary's government structure looks like for the next four years. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Without you!]] Congressman Balla had a rather low-quality comment in which [[Bence Rétvári: How arrogant you are! Is that openness?]] He took it down. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] With an unexpected turn of events, they won an election, so they did everything right. I tell you, the election was won because of a massive lie from stolen billions of public money; and the fact that more people are voting for you does not mean that your professional performance in the areas that the opposition is criticizing would have been of too high quality. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] On the contrary! First of all, the problem with your past 12 years' work and your next four years' government work is not that there is no independent ministry of the areas, health, education, social affairs or the environment that we refer to, no! The problem is that objectively very poor performance has been achieved in these areas. [[Bence Rétvári: How good was the Gyurcsány, huh?]] They did not serve the interests of the Hungarian people, because Viktor Orbán is personally and politically convinced that these areas are not important for the future of the country. We have the opposite belief that this is what we believe will determine Hungary's future, not that you can build up as much power and money as possible for yourself and your oligarchs. So let's look at some areas; they'll be forced to listen, my time is running out, there's 13.5 minutes left. [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Get a loan from the neighbor!]] But I'm not going to take advantage of it, calm down, just one or two objective indicators of what our problem is with your work, for example, in the field of education. Our problem is, let's say, how much a teacher earns: a teacher earns 14 years of professional experience and a college degree that a skilled worker receives as a beginner, 260 thousand grosses. You think that's okay? The problem with your education policy is: [[He's pointing his hands from the top down.]] This is how the students' performance in international comparisons goes down. [[Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] And that's why it's not the kids, it's not the teachers. [[Bence Rétvári: Lies!]] Fidesz-KDNP's education policy is at fault. [[Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] Our problem with your education policy is that while 140,000 people applied to higher education in 2010, 101,000 people are now. [[Bence Rétvári: Ask Miklós Dawn...]] According to you, it is not worth getting modern knowledge, it is not worth getting higher education for young Hungarians. You want to organize this country according to a completely different economic and political model, but we, and the Hungarian parents in general, disagree. That's the problem with your education policy, not that he doesn't have a dedicated ministry. [[13.20]] Or let's go to health care. The problem with it is that they are spending less and less on it in proportion to GDP, 2 percentage points/GDP is missing from Hungarian health, which is practically a thousand billion a year. We know what wages there are, we see continuous emigration, we see escape from health care, and we see that the emergency, the medical service relationship and, by the way, the new emergency and the ordering under the Minister of the Interior were all about avoiding the escape of health professionals. Yes, there was a wage increase for doctors, but there was no wage increase for the majority of healthcare workers, while there was a 20-30 percent inflation on food. That's our problem. Our problem is that 854,000 people don't have their own doctor. [[Bence Rétvári: Everyone has one!]] Our problem is that the life expectancy of Hungarians is five years lower as a result of such events. [[Bence Rétvári: The difference is reduced!]] as in EU Member States with similar levels of development. This is our problem, and it is not that there is no independent Ministry of Health. If a Secretary of State or an Assistant Secretary of State were responsible for this area, but they would have produced brilliant results over the last 12 years, we would applaud you, but that is not what is happening in the least. Our problem is not, going further in the social field, that it has no independent ministry, but that, let's say, the family allowance is HUF 12 200, exactly as it was in 2010. The 12 years of inflation took half of its value, but you didn't raise a bit, not even by chance, on the most important element of family support, reaching everyone, poor families and poor children. In the same way, they did not raise the minimum retirement pension: 28 500 forints since 2010, tens of thousands of old people get that kind of money for a life spent at work; half a million people get less than 100,000 pensions. That is why we have said that we need a basic pension, and that is why we have said that we need to raise the minimum retirement pension; you have never supported it. The geisha is as much as 28,000 forints as it used to be. This is the problem, and it is not that there is no independent Ministry of Social Affairs. Once again, the primary problem is not that you have completely destroyed the institutional system of environmental protection, in the first place with the Ministry of Environment, but the problem is that 14,000 people die today in Hungary every year because of high air pollution. The problem is that the country has been increasing its greenhouse gas emissions since 2013. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Lots of traffic!]] The problem is that there's a lot of traffic because you don't happen to support public transport, because you take resources away from, for example, Budapest and all the municipalities. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection from the same place: No!]] , which could be used to improve and support public transport, but otherwise, cycling is not supported in the nose and mouth, since our fellow Member Nacsa is already trying to be witty here. That's the problem, yes. [[Bence Rétvári: That's why you didn't win, for you say such things!]] that you are contributing to the climate crisis, not dampening it, slowing down this climate crisis [[Dr. János Fónagy: We set a thousand buses a year!]] And they won't do anything for climate change. This is our problem with your environmental policy, your green policy, and not primarily that there is no independent ministry. We'd love to have one, but that wouldn't solve the problems. The problem is that you do not care about people's everyday well-being, and you really only care about serving their own power and economic aspects, and therefore Hungary will not have a future. [[Bence Rétvári: Then how did we win four elections? Dr. János Fónagy: You will have no future!]] That is what the opposition has been trying to say in this debate, which they are now obliged to hear in a short form. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2022-05-17-72	Thank you very much. Dear Chief of Staff, It is the duty of the managing president to indicate if a person applies for a repeated speech because, according to the house rules, he is the only one who can give the opportunity to do so. The second is that the leading president can be criticized at any time, but the conditions for criticism are strictly within the framework of the house rules. It is therefore not possible to do so in a proper speech, and even if it is done in a proper speech, it is the President's duty to exclude him from the debate. Of course, I am not taking this opportunity now, because I am giving the Member, Mr Group leader, the opportunity to read the house rule. Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting. A statement from the ruling parties: Bence Tordai!]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Imre Vejkey, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the remaining timeframe. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-73	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Given that Parliamentary Secretary Balázs Orbán has already explained his professional response to what has been said before us, and that Mr György Balla has already explained the political answers that I wanted to give, I would only respond very briefly to opposition speeches. All opposition speeches concerned rejection of the bill. The opposition speeches were meaningless, pregnant with demagoguery and self-righteous. [[Gergely Harvestó: Is this how Rogán wrote it?]] I would just like to give you three examples of this. One example, for example, was Gergely Arató, the DK lead speaker, who praised Károly Grósz himself and his government, the Károly Grósz, who declared our 1956 freedom fight counter-revolution. [[Gergely Harvesto: I said you're worse than that!]] An excellent example of this demagoguery, of saying nothing and self-righteousness is the Momentum's speech by András Fekete-Győr, who said literally that there is a single Democratic alliance here in Parliament, and that is what the Gyurcsány Alliance has said here, ladies and gentlemen. The third thing I would like to bring to you is that the morality of the West has been glorified by MSZP and Dialogue, István Hiller and Tamás Mellar. They praised the morality that seeks to replace Christianity with a global world order by force. The moralism was praised for wanting not only the value system of society, but also its complete structure, out of the ordinary, and for the morality that is deceptive and deceitful with the false advertising of the ideal of a better world. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-17-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our sitting today. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. [[It's happening.]] Following is the T/47 on the list of the ministries of Hungary. Final vote of bill No 1. I would remind you that, according to our decision on Monday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/47. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 124 votes in favour, 39 votes against and no abstentions. It is now up to the election of the notary of the Parliament. On the initiative of the leader of the Dialogue Group, Mr Speaker S/49. Mr Berki proposed that the Parliament elect Sándor Berki as notary of the Parliament. A proposal for amendment to the motion cannot be tabled; Parliament shall decide on the official by open vote and without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament, therefore, to elect Sándor Berki as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Sándor Berki to the notary of the Parliament with 163 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. On behalf of all of us, I congratulate you on the election of the new official of the Parliament, and I wish you every success in your work. It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. S/43. The decision to make a proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Regulation. The proposal put forward by the President initiates the election of the Parliament to the Legislative Committee by Sándor Berki, Dialogue, instead of Jámbor András Imre, Dialogue, as a member of the Committee. The proposal is available on our website. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/43. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal with 161 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[13.30]] It is now 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of Parliament. S/50. The decision to make a proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Regulation. The proposal put forward by the President was made available on the website. I now ask Mr István Tiba to explain the content of the personal proposal. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-75	11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament Parliamentary resolution hereinafter referred to as "OGY Decision 1' shall be amended as follows: Parliament shall elect to the Judicial Committee Dr. László György Lukács, Jobbik, instead of Hajnalka Szabó, Jobbik; Z. Kárpát Dániel, Jobbik, instead of Hajnalka Szabó, Jobbik, member of the Committee. Point 2 of the OGY resolution is amended as follows: Parliament elects Dr. László György Lukács, Jobbik, instead of Noémi Végh, Jobbik, member of the Committee. Point 4 of the OGY resolution is amended as follows: Parliament elects Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik, instead of Hajnalka Szabó, Jobbik, Vice-President of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2022-05-17-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! First, on the basis of points 1, 2 and 4 of the proposal, we decide on the election of the members of the committee, and then, according to point 3 of the proposal, we decide on the Commission official from among the members of the committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament that it is S/50. The Committee shall elect the members of the Committees by adopting points 1, 2 and 4. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected the members of the committees with 164 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament that it is S/50. According to point 3 of the Committee's proposal No.3, Hajnalka Szabó will be elected Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets from among the members of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Hajnalka Szabó to the Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets with 163 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, We've reached the end of the decisions. But I would like to ask the attention of my fellow Members for a moment, and I would like to draw the heads of the factions' attention to the fact that the meeting of the House Committee will begin in 15 minutes at the Parliament's Pázmándy Hall. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 13.33 13.36 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. István Tiba and Bernadett Bakos)
u2022-05-17-77	Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of individual laws to the Act on the Listing of the Ministries of Hungary will follow until closure. The government referral is T/48. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. I now give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. (In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba Replaced by Attila Gelencsér.)
u2022-05-17-78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The administration is not the power of some people over others, but the effort to meet the common goals of the organization of the nation, to satisfy its common needs, said Zoltán Magyary, a former distinguished lawyer. In this spirit, the top administration, the current government, must also function. The status of the government is laid down in the Fundamental Law and its function is twofold: on the one hand, as the main body of public administration, it is at the head of the top administration organisation and on the other hand, as a general body of executive power, it carries out government activities on the basis of the principles of the distribution and balance of powers. The government receives its mandate from the Parliament, which has been elected directly by the people, and its task is to establish and implement a policy that complies with this mandate. The general election of the Members of Parliament took place on 3 April, after which the new Parliament was established on 2 May, and the mandate of the fourth Orbán government ceased. Following the election of the Prime Minister, the new government is formed with the appointment of ministers, in order to present to Parliament a bill on the list of ministries, which, together with the bill before us, is intended to establish an organisational framework for the establishment of the new government. At the elections on 3 April, citizens expressed their will more clearly than ever before, giving a strong mandate to the civilian side to continue the work started over a decade ago. In view of all this, the Fidesz-KDNP coalition, which was once again authorised in accordance with previous traditions, is now forming a government on the basis of the Prime Minister's guidelines in such a way that two aspects must be taken into account when determining its organisational, structural and personal composition. One is that we must be able to preserve the results that have already been achieved: we continue to support families raising children, protect jobs, the purchasing value of salaries and pensions, protect our Christian culture and the country against foreign interests and ideologies. That's one of them. [[13.40]] Secondly, the new governance structure must also be able to meet the challenges facing the country. We have decades of danger ahead of us, we have a war next door, there are serious consequences for Europe as a whole, and the Hungarian people have made a clear decision during the elections: they expect the leaders of the country to protect them and Hungary against these dangers. Therefore, the most important task of the new government is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to provide effective and effective answers to the issues of the economic crisis in Europe that has emerged as a result of the war. This effort is reflected in the structure of the new Cabinet and the division of labour between ministries. The new structure can thus not only carry on the good practices that have already been developed, but can help Hungary to continue to go forward. The bill listing the ministries of Hungary proposes the operation of 11 ministries. Based on these names and functions, the Ministry of Technology and Industry, the Ministry of Culture and Innovation, the Ministry of Construction and Investment, which will be replaced partly by the Ministry of Human Resources and partly by the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, and will be created by exodus from the Prime Minister's Office. The creation of a new governance structure in the light of all of this, but beyond that, requires a number of amendments to the law as follows. The bill standardises the provisions on ministers, so under the new legislation, ministers who do not run an independent ministry will be ministers of the same legal status as those who are at the head of a portfolio. The Parliament will continue to decide which ministries operate, which the government has supplemented with ministers who receive their own specialty, but who will be assisted not by their own, but by another ministry or by the Prime Minister's Government Office. The bill also ensures the separation of functions managed together so far at the legislative level. It also does so in the separation of ministerial responsibility for social and pension policy and in the self-representation of responsibility for public education and higher education instead of responsibility for education. In the latter case, it should be noted that the existing legal system already treats public education and higher education as two separate sub-schemes within education. A further innovation in the bill is that responsibility for macroeconomic regulation of economic policy and responsibility for economic policy, which have so far been found separately in the legal system, are consolidated and named as responsibility for the macroeconomic basis of the budget. In addition, the bill creates responsibility for cultural diplomacy and foreign Hungarian cultural institutions as an independent responsibility, which has so far been part of the foreign policy field. This is linked to the fact that foreign Hungarian cultural institutions currently operating as part of foreign representations, such as trade representations, will become independent foreign representations and the rights associated with the management of independent cultural institutions will be exercised by the Minister responsible for cultural diplomacy and foreign Hungarian cultural institutions. Finally, it is worth pointing out that, in the context of government personnel management, the bill designates the body responsible for some of its tasks as the central function of government personnel management, instead of the Minister responsible for the development of the public service career or the associated human resources centre. This includes, for example, tasks related to the selection process, recruitment, benchmarking. In addition, the fact that the bill transfers the enforcement of the public administration's staff policy from the previously responsible minister to the central body of government personnel management constitutes an additional extension of the responsibilities of the body which performs the central tasks of government personnel management. There are further changes to the bill, but I think that we will be able to talk exhaustively about these details in the debate ahead. I think that in the new structure, there are all the conditions for us to be able to do government work to meet the challenges facing our country in the way that voters expect us to do. In addition to economic and infrastructure development, innovation and the protection of families, we will continue to modernise health care, and we will work from public education to higher education and we will also want to keep in mind the sustainability requirements. In view of all this, I would like to ask you to support the bill submitted to Parliament. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-17-79	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Elias Boglarka. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-05-17-80	Mr President, Dear House, In everyday life, I believe that it is essential, but in public life, in the pursuit of political activity, it is perhaps particularly essential to have an accurate situational recognition capability, as this will enable problems to be properly identified and answered. In the 50 days preceding 3 April, and in the previous period, I was less aware of the opposition's attitude to the situation of washing electric scooter with water, or, in the spirit of democracy, the elderly would have been deprived of the vote, or that without a degree, an economist or university student could engage in political activity. But after 3 April, after having won an unprecedented victory not only in Hungary but also in Europe, more than 3 million people gave their trust and authority to lead the Government of Hungary for the next four years, we will then experience the same thing as before, the same attitude, the same voices. I am pleased that the Hungarian people, the voters, have recognised that the government led by Fidesz-KDNP can not only create the peace and security of Hungary, but also protect it in the future. After all, even before the outbreak of the war, when you think about the crises that have hit Hungary, when you think about illegal migration and the dangers associated with it, when you think about the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic and the coronal virus, especially with regard to the economic sector, and if you think about the energy crisis that we are experiencing in Europe after the outbreak of the war, and thanks to the reduction of the overhead, it is Hungary that is even less aware of this daily risk, then it is clear and clear to us that not only in the present, but also in the future, it is necessary to develop a governance structure that can respond adequately to these or even the crisis that is arising as a result. This overwhelming mandate is what the government has received, and with which I believe that the government has not only the opportunity, but also the duty and responsibility to live, because, as I said, the period of danger is not only behind us, but also for a decade of danger. Although we have already made our own arguments in detail in the previous debate, and you have been able to draw up the political arguments that I think are less professional, but rather for the past period, along which you are imagining the future, but I think it is very important and justified that the T/47 before us is very important and justified. I would like to draw your attention to one thing in particular. After all, the purpose of this bill is clearly to allow the new governance structure to be modified, and the government can start work on this as soon as possible by amending the necessary legislation and having the framework created by it. I wish to emphasise and stress that they guarantee and ensure that Hungary and all Hungarians are protected from external influences, risks and we solve the problems, the negative effects of the potential economic recession that can affect us. [[13.50]] It has always been important for us, and the most important thing was to keep national interests in mind, and this is one of the most important objectives and the most important task of this structure. Therefore, I can clearly state on behalf of the Fidesz Group that the bill before us has been debated and fully supported. I ask you, too, all the political groups and all the Members who are present and those who are now less able to participate in this debate, to support you, to prove to the opposition that you do not wish to pursue the policy of the coming years that you have created so far, I can even say that it is you, or even a political web that has been formed around you, and that you do not have any prisoners of this political web, but try to break out of it and try to hold this debate on the bill in the national interest, and then to make your decision. I am asking you to try to deal with this as soon as possible and to help us make decisions in this House, regardless of party standing, in the interests of national interest. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-05-17-81	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the DK Group was Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-05-17-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Congresswoman Boglárka Illés, the lead speaker of Fidesz, has asked us to step out of the bubble in which the opposition has lived for a long time and, therefore, to support this T/48 law. On the other hand, let me ask the Fidesz Group, the KDNP Group, who have remained here, because if I look at it well, I think we are more opposition representatives than the members of the Fidesz-KDNP Group to consider and not support this bill. In a few minutes, I would like to say why I think that this bill, which is a so-called salad law, which we are, of course, accustomed to from the previous Orbán governments, because this structure, this structure, this governance structure, does not help the goals that you have set for yourself. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Thank you for your concern.]] The illegal Orbán government, which has been ruining our country for 12 years, has come up with a very unexpected structure of government, since there is not a single word in it in the 21st century. In the second half of the century, very important areas. In the context of the Act on Ministries, leaders and speakers of the opposition have already said so, but I can only confirm that, and I would like to tell you as much as possible that what we are saying to you here will finally come to an understanding conclusion. So it's the 21st. In the second half of the century, neither health nor education nor environmental protection have an independent ministry, and I am going further, and it is not clear that these few very important areas will fall within the responsibility of the prime minister or secondary minister in the governmental structure presented by the Deputy Minister of State, Minister of State. However, there are six economic wallets, which will be run by businessmen linked to NER, from which you can continue to fatten the EU's resources from Brussels, which you hate orally. If the character of the government becomes what is apparent from this bill, i.e. internal control, mistrust, continuous collection and control of data, they want to know everything about everyone, although if this is the future in Hungary, then we are not far from a world in Orwell, where observation will become total and complete. It is interesting, however, that, while the functioning of the state is becoming increasingly opaque, a significant part of the public interest data is encrypted or very difficult to sue, data collection on citizens and monitoring of citizens, if this bill is adopted by you, will become total. The government's ambition is clear: they are systematically working on a total control similar to China, so it is not surprising that I would still like to see the Fudan University in Budapest, which would install the Chinese Communist Party's spy center in my beloved city. Another interesting thing is that, for example, air travel passenger data must be transmitted, while you are doing everything you can to conceal the travels of NER private aircraft and the data of those passengers. It is no coincidence that the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament today is the only party, let us be promissory, party alliance, which hinders the disclosure of agent files. A strong man of the government can be the Minister of Propaganda Antal Rogán, who will now be the strongest man after the Prime Minister, following the adoption of the new proposal. It retains propaganda and communication, which plays a key role in the government of Orbán, and will also be supervised by all civil national security services, namely the Information Office, the Constitutional Protection Office, the National Security Service and the National Information Centre. We know that many people remember the word corruption about Antal Rogán, and that his mandate is equal to a declaration of war and a slap in the face of honest Hungarians. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Who wrote this?]] If this were the desired goal, the peace and security of Hungary, then this pledge, my fellow Members, is not worth replacing, because we do not leave cabbage to the goat. There is strong suspicion that the transfer of secret services to the chief of propaganda is the lifting of the conflict between the Minister of the Interior and Antal Rogán. The press, which is not dependent on Fidesz, mentioned that this conflict could be part of the Völner scandal involving the Minister of Justice of Judit Varga. So the Orbán government works by finding in the files of the Pegasus scandal, the wiretap scandal, the chief of staff of Antal Rogán, who, surprisingly enough, even bought an office building from the Executive Faculty. Observation, corruption, I very much hope that will continue to be the name of the Orbán government. The proposal, as I have already mentioned, also shows that the government remains committed to Fudan University and Paks II. under construction. We strongly object to this. We don't want it from the Chinese Communist Party's spy center, and we don't even think about it. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: People's referendum!]] that Paks II must be built from the untrustworthy Russian technology. Dear fellow Members, Take the example of the Finns. They've already stopped the construction of a power plant based on such unreliable technology. And let me talk about another area that is very important to me, and this is Budapest and its agglomeration. About three million people live in this area, and according to press reports, this area would go to John Lazarus. To the János Lázár, who was touring the campaign with it, I quote: "Now the countryside is coming." While he explains, I also quote Mr Lázár: the countryside should be developed at the expense of Budapest's country. At the same time, we know from your boss, and I quote again, "Don't look at what I'm saying, but what I'm doing." No, poor Budapest and the agglomeration, if it is also responsible for the future Budapest, also the Minister responsible for the agglomeration does not want the further development of Budapest and agglomeration in words! At the same time, the chaos within the government shows that the development and question of rust zones, on the other hand, would belong to the Ministry of Palkovics, and most of them are the most valuable and rusty areas in Budapest, so this will lead to another government chaos in this area as well. I would like to say that there are many billionaires indebted to the NER oligarchs at the top of the economic wallets that overlap each other's activities. We have to make sure that all the people we hold out together get out of all the money we have in common. That's why the stromans were sent to the box of honor for the godfather's speech. [[14.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, This is not a government of peace and security. Stealing will continue undisturbedly, but because of the increasingly cold economic conditions, people will have to be watched. What other reason could there be for doctors and teachers threatening to strike to go under the Minister of the Interior? Will the police be behind the backs of all disgruntled teachers, doctors and nurses? The Orbán government is preparing for increasing dissatisfaction and military discipline within the Fidesz world, which has destroyed our country. DK cannot support this illegitimate government, and poor voters must not know what you are up to before 3 April. The voters did not know that there would be no separate health, education or environmental wallet, that they did not know that Antal Rogán would be entrusted with the secret services, that it was not said yesterday, as Viktor Orbán said, about the war decade. As you have said here, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, there are dangerous decades coming. I very much hope that this is not what is coming to Hungary. You told people in the election campaign, everything's great, everything's great, we just have to vote for you. Now the livelihood crisis, the record deficit, the record government debt, and the Prime Minister's speech weakened the forint by 5 forints compared to the euro. The Democratic Coalition does not assist in this illegal and devastating government's rampage, and therefore DK's representatives do not support T/48. Bill No. 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-05-17-83	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-05-17-84	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Let me start by saying that the left-wing congressmen are gonna come clean on the salad bill. It's a standard case-law tool. She was a Member of the Council between 2002 and 2010, and there were salad laws, of course. There are legislative instruments that can only be arranged in this way. There are 133 pages in front of us here, I suppose you don't say, Congresswoman, that because of a letter or a changed word, or because of a list, all come here to Parliament in a separate law, because they are all grouped around one subject. The new government is about to be established, the list of ministries was adopted by Parliament half an hour ago, so you can see exactly how the related legislative proposals are here, how the government structure is transformed, where it goes, what powers will be, and how it should be passed through the legislation. I understand that this must always be written in the various speeches of DK's writers, but here it is not justified, I think, to look at them in advance at other times. I understand that Ferenc Gyurcsány has now published to you that the government must be called an illegal government, but the election was pure, democratic and fair, and in this election, there were never so many people who voted in one direction. The wisest have decided on the fate of the new government, the electorate, the electorate, the electorate, questioning the electorate's decision, my concern is that it is outdated, DK should stop blaming voters for the election result. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Madam Congresswoman has called on the guardian of legality here in the law to have strict internal control systems, and there has been a strict internal control system for both EU funds and domestic resources and investments, and it may be even stricter after that. I think that this is appropriate, that legality must always be preserved, and abuses must always be discovered and eliminated. The fact that this Congresswoman doesn't like it is not my fault. Obviously, the congresswoman is used to something else in Budapest, there was a free robbery, we heard a lot about sharks who were swimming around the Town Hall, but this is nothing new. I would like to ask the congresswoman, perhaps when she has the opportunity to answer who said the sentence: "I would like to inform Parliament that the Government intends to ask the Parliament to decide, in the first half of this year, to double the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant by means of a comprehensive development. You know, Congresswoman, who said this sentence that this development should be launched, that the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant should be doubled? Ferenc Gyurcsány said that sentence, honourable Member. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks. Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Examine!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Examine. Do you know what that means?]] Ferenc Gyurcsány said that... [[The president's ringing the bell. Noise in DK's ranks.]] It must not be examined, it must be doubled with a comprehensive development. It is interesting that DK is already debating not only reality, but also the Parliamentary Protocol. It is not necessary to examine it, but to carry out a comprehensive development on this issue. You were also supporting the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and you voted in favour of the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. It's interesting how quickly the world changes. You were sitting here as a representative and voted to become a Paks II block, to have a new block, and thus to secure the energy production of Hungary for many decades. We're sorry he's somewhere else now, and he doesn't support it. After a long time you were returned to the Parliament, and as a female representative, I would have been delighted to hear your ally in his first speech on the charge of rape and call them up, as we have heard similar actions from you before, but now women's representatives over there are very silent and do not talk about the scandals of their allies and how this affects, for example, the ability of women to pursue their interests, the protection of women. Other times they speak so loudly in these matters, for some reason we are not hearing this, my honourable fellow Member. He's been talking about secret services, and there's a number of secret services involved in the bill. As a Member of Parliament, I have two expectations for the secret services: one is that the law should work in every way, and the other is that they should protect Hungary's sovereignty, security and the interests of Hungary from both external and internal attacks. For me, this is my purchase price, honourable Member. We may even be able to agree on this by raising these expectations as Members of Parliament to the Secret Service. We remember that, in your time, the secret services did not comply with the law, that they had the Russian secret service screened the Hungarian secret service and allowed Russian agents into the Hungarian services, and there was the fact that then opposition politicians, including the current prime minister, were illegally observed. That is the question, my honourable fellow Member. Lajos Kósa, László Kövér, Viktor Orbán were illegally observed by you. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Is there such a judgment?]] That's an interesting way to get these cases out of your memory, and they don't come up with it. Since 2010, Hungarian secret services have been operating legally. [[Kálmán Olga laughs.]] And they respect what we expect them to operate legally and protect Hungary's security interests, and to counter attacks against sovereignty. I think that it is worth continuing to set these expectations for the secret services, as this is their most important task. It doesn't matter what kind of work organisation they work in anyway. But I would add that in the Western world, it is not uncommon for the Prime Minister to have surveillance of the secret services in his work organisation, the one closest to the Prime Minister. This did not bother you in other Western European or North American countries, obviously there was no criticism of this only at home or elsewhere. You also mentioned the case of Budapest, which, I think, is a priority case, and it is very important to talk about it. It is also important because it is sad for us Budapesters to see how our beloved capital has been depraved in the last two and a half years, that garbage cans are removed without any reason, that while complaining about a shortage of money, hundreds of millions of HUF are being paid to consultants at City Hall. They have increased the number of advisors, the number of advisors in the capital, which, I think, cannot be justified in any way, only by using the capital as a money-paying place until now and beyond. We have heard about sharks, we have heard about the town hall case, we have heard about the measures that are absolutely not in the interests of the people in Budapest, the car chase, the various measures when a quay is finished, but not opened to road users, we see it swimming in dirt and garbage. You used the word "Chaos" in Budapest. We can finally agree on this, although you have used it in a different context, but what now characterizes Budapest's leadership is really chaos, incompetence and the inability to live in Budapest. I think it is important to take action together in this matter, so that this can no longer continue, so that the city hall management can finally take a course where it represents the interests of the people of Budapest rather than, say, the interests of Ferenc Gyurcsány and other interests. It is important that the people of Budapest feel that this municipality is also working for them, because we have not seen this once in the last two and a half years. We have seen the Gordons of Bajna, Ferencs Gyurcsány around the Town Hall, unfortunately we have not seen any interest in Budapest and any decision that I think would have been good for the people of Budapest. I was talking about the secret services, why it is important that they go to the Prime Minister's work organisation, but I would like to say, Madam honourable Member, that after a clear decision of 3 April, the Hungarian people gave us the authority to continue working in their interest, on the basis of Hungarian national interest, in the defence of Hungary's sovereignty and in the cultural circle that we have seen in the past, to strengthen family policy, to further develop the economy. [[14.10]] After all, we can see the last quarter's figures are a 8.2 percent economic growth, a record-level increase, given how low unemployment is, how high employment is, how average wages have increased over the past period, how sectoral wage increases have been made, how consumers have been protected from, for example, the release of energy prices by the institution of the reduction of overhead, how successful it has been in the fight against inflation, whether the petrol stop or the interest stop or the food price stop. Yes, the voters asked us to keep these measures so that we could continue working in the interests of Hungarian businesses and Hungarian families. The voters also said that they would not ask for the policy that you represent, because it is always a austerity, always a tax lifter, always a policy that takes family support. From this we have more experience than illusions, we know exactly your ideas in this direction. Now, the campaign has found out more than once what kind of tax increases they'd be planning, what cuts they'd be planning if they went to government. Thank God, this did not happen, so the path of development can continue even in a difficult time. We have talked about this several times today and last week about what a difficult period awaits the European Union and the world as a whole, the world economy in the current situation: the age of migration, the age of epidemics, the age of economic difficulties, and even a war in our neighbourhood, so there is also a need to prepare for crisis management. You have dealt with the crisis with austerity, and we have always handled the crises well, and I hope that this will remain so next. This law, although it contains a lot of technical amendments, contributes to this, as there is a ministerial structure that we have already debated before the votes, which is suitable to protect Hungary from the negative effects of the crisis, which is able to help Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. That is our goal, and I hope that even you can support us in some of our decisions. The first condition of this is that the facts are not denied. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-17-85	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Mr László Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2022-05-17-86	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I do not wish to repeat what we said in the debate this morning, which was related to the ministerial structure. With the current bill and the last meeting of the House Committee, we have not come any closer to what it will look like and how it will develop, not only the structure of the ministries, but also its organisation and tasks and powers. To a large extent, it was also very difficult to see why the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office could not be heard, for example, in the Judicial Committee, although the new agency established for the supervision of regulated public activities was established under his organisational and powers and has an important task, so the Judicial Committee could listen to him after all. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we have made very little progress with this bill, despite the 113 pages on which it puts the changes. In order to see what its real structure is, and what is the real decision-making and direction of the new governance structure, one thing must be sure to repeat, that it is not possible to read from this law all the lines that Viktor Orbán said on Monday, the war and the challenges ahead and the government response to it and the ministry answers reflected in the ministerial structure. It remains incomprehensible and very difficult to justify where health will be, where education will be, where environmental protection will be. I find it odd to agree with my fellow Member Nacsa that a good part of the electorate has told me what policy he does not agree with. But I think a lot of the voters also said that there are a number of polls that would be more relaxed, and I would ask if they could at all request this government, but we know that communication is usually a one-way street for four years, and that only elections are feedback, so they also told us through polls that, yes, they think about important areas of life such as education, health and the environment in a separate ministry. Let me call you: in terms of environmental protection, there is almost 100 percent agreement between the people who participated in the surveys that there is a need for an independent ministry. It should also be said that what was said here, I believe, in the previous debate, and believe me, I do not want to provoke my fellow Member, but something like that you said that commie nostalgia was the independent Ministry of the Environment or something like that. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Károly Grósz!]] Then I probably got it wrong. The Ministry of the Environment and the fact that we are able to deal with environmental issues as a priority, and I think that it embodies and shows that if there is an independent ministry, or perhaps in the context of agriculture, we are dealing with it in some way, so that people, perhaps, have authorized Viktor Orbán to form a government, a lot of people have given permission not to form a government, but a large majority of people want it and expect the legislative and future government as executive power to create an organizational structure in which he clearly has an owner, and that is to say, as an independent organizational unit, health and education, because not only people feel that their interests can be more articulated, transferred to power, but also the profession thinks so. If you have to listen specifically to someone, then our teachers who work in it are dealing with our children every day, those health workers and their representative organisations, national chambers, which also believe that in their cases a separate ministry is needed. The past period, only the pandemic, has shown how prepared a state's health is, depends to a large extent on whether or not it has a independent, free-thinking health department in its organisational structure. At the end of the day, we were saying that we had to intervene from a law enforcement area, and we are not sure that it was the right direction in the health care process. But one thing is certain, the situation in education and health depends largely on how we want to organise health and education. Jobbik, as a right-wing conservative party, believes that there is a need for robust public health and that public health needs to be put in the best possible position. We believe that a well-funded education is needed to give Hungarian students a competitive advantage and to be in a good position in the highly competitive and very special market in which they have to stand in place throughout the world, on the one hand, so that they can use their knowledge to thrive in Hungary and, on the one hand, to make us proud of having such great teachers and raising such great students. We believe that one of the pledges of this is the independent ministry, not repeating everything I have said. My idea, but I also feel that the idea of my political community is far from what you have now created with a ministerial structure, which is why we cannot support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-05-17-87	Thank you very much, Congressman László Lukács. I now give the floor to Congressman Miklós Hajnal, the lead speaker of the Momentum Group.
u2022-05-17-88	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Gergely Gulyás presented 113 pages of salad law on the ministries of Hungary, and indeed God, they are likely to overwhelm all this in a few days, from the presentation to the vote. I'm sorry the Minister isn't here personally, by the way. I was hoping that if we don't see so much in your constituency, we might be able to talk and argue here in Parliament. The debate on this proposal, which we are now conducting, certainly does not change your presentation and your decision very much, which is why I am not now going to go through all 113, not 133, as Congressman Nacsa said, but we would not have time, instead, to highlight three very important matters to our fellow countrymen. Dear House, I would like to offer you three questions that the government has smuggled into these 113 pages, but it has nothing to do with the development of our country, it has nothing to do with good administration, because we could be talking about health in these 113 pages, we could finally deal with the climate crisis, we could update the education system, or we could adopt a rescue package together to deal with double-digit inflation. But that's not what you're going to start with. That's not what's important to you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, when you were authorized by the Hungarian voters to lead the country, you did so in the belief that you would use the power to solve their problems. Instead, what do you start the government with? Powerful craftsmanship. They centralize and strengthen their own power, and they don't even give up on appearances. Let us consider the three most outstanding examples of these. One. The Secret Service will be transferred directly from the Home Office to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. [[14.20]] I ask you, if it isn't the Prime Minister who wants to use the secret service's tools. This is a serious responsibility, especially after the Völner case and the Pegasus case, which, by the way, we do not see in the Western democracies that you have brought up as examples. The opposite lesson should have been drawn, and not to bring the secret services into closer government control, but to let them do professional work without political say. I'm starting with this because it's probably the most serious decision of the 113-page material that bleeds from a thousand wounds. But that's not the only problem with your power building. The second is that the Hungarian Competition Authority, with which we have been continuing for nearly a year because of the University of Physical Education and further investments, has been the president of this office, the Hungarian Competition Authority, for cartel-suspecting cases between the Prime Minister's favourite companies, from now on, although it has been limited to this time, whenever it can be appointed. To make the picture a little easier: the case of the son-in-law and old friend of the Fidesz prime minister, gas mechanic, has been being investigated by a man with fidesz for over 20 years. You should be more specific about this because you refuse to examine me. So far, it has been customary to give at least the appearance of integrity and independence, so such positions have not been re-elected. They did so in order not to suspect political self-interest, nor to seek political favor in the hope of re-election. Now, it seems that Fidesz and the government are no longer showing up, keeping the fidesz cadres in a position of clear political and economic interest without exchange. That's why the Competition Authority is important to you. Dear members of the government, does it not matter that much now? And the third piece of evidence, which is another proof that they don't give it away. Let us go back to a topic already debated yesterday, since the Minister has already written about it in his 113-page proposal. The proposal states that during the establishment of the Foundation for the University of Fudan, the Minister for Education is no longer responsible for the State, but the Minister for Industry. This is one of those things where the goal could be questioned why we need this University of Fudan, because Student City would have had more to do with our higher education than Fudan University, but now it seems that you don't give a damn. The government spent a huge amount of money on a project that serves the Chinese state party instead of the interests of Hungarian students. The government no longer sees this as a higher education project, but as an industrial one. Dear fellow Members, Government members! If Hungarian students are not worth anything to you, then say so, and do not express their insignificance in a salad law! Dear fellow Members, That was only three dissuading examples of your 113-page bill. We could still be eyeballing, but these are so serious problems that we need a clear signal. We always say yes to our country's development, but we always say no to arbitrary power-building, including this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-05-17-89	Thank you very much, Congressman Miklós Dawn. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK.
u2022-05-17-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What I would like to add to this debate is that it is very important when a government is formed, what symbol system, what words surround government formation. The government formation that is being made now, those words do not surround it as a family, they do not surround it as a child, they do not surround it as an education, they do not surround it as a health care, they do not surround it as an environment or environment. We are in a situation where both the Prime Minister and the Fidesz speakers are talking about a crisis, a crisis that is unfolding; the Prime Minister goes all the way to talking about a decade of war. Well, if there's a crisis, there's nothing more important than saving human resources. And if you think that the EMMI was a success story, then let me remind you of Zoltán Balog, who said that the EMMI was a failure and that the whole structure was not good. Unfortunately, four more years have gone by in this structure, because Fidesz is unable to take into account even its own minister's corrective proposal. I think it's a very serious problem. Besides, I think that, in such a situation, it is a fool's errand to expect the opposition to vote in favour of this law. I can see the eulogies coming from the fantastic economic performance. There has never been such a weak forint, there has never been such a shortage of public finances, there has never been such an external trade deficit, there has never been such a large public debt. So there are tumultuous problems here, and in the meantime we are wrapped up in cultural and philosophical matters, while we know that every sentence we use to kick European decision-makers makes the fate of Hungarian entrepreneurs, Hungarian students and Hungarian people more difficult, because the EU money is not coming. We should not fight, but make peace with Western Europe, since we are already a member of the Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-05-17-91	Thank you, Congressman Gréczy. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party for two minutes.
u2022-05-17-92	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would say to Congressman Luke that I said the nostalgia of commie when Gergely Arató modelled with Cardinal Grósz. Perhaps even you did not go to such a left that we should not agree that Charles Grósz should not be summoned to the House regularly, and it is not certain that any steps and actions of Charles Grósz should be taken as an example to follow. I hope we can still agree on that. I apologize to Nicholas at dawn for screwing up and saying 133 instead of 113. At least I didn't miss my degree, really, at least that's it. I'm really sorry I misjudged the page number. I would like to say to Zsolt Gréczy who said that human resources should not be reduced in the crisis and that human resources should not be neglected, that I think the Member is right. But where were you in 2009 when you took a month's pension from pensioners, took a month's wages from teachers, put 6,000 health workers on the side of the road, closed over 300 small schools in the smallest villages? Then why didn't you tell me these thoughts? Then why didn't you tell us that we had to preserve human resources when family support was cut, that family tax relief was taken from one and two children? When home creation programs were liquidated one after another, interest-supported housing loans, HUF-based housing loans, various Socpol institutions were charged one by one? Then where was that sentence for you? Because we're basically in agreement. And what did we do in the crisis? We've rebuilt the 13th month pension, we've been able to pay a family tax refund, we've extended family support, we've announced a home renovation program, and we've been doing sectoral wage increases. This is the huge difference, and we have been talking for months about the fact that, as a result of your crisis management, economic growth was minus 7 percent in 2009, so it was an economic decline, and in 2021 it was an extra 7 percent, my honourable fellow Member. This is a 14 percent difference in a year after the crisis, honourable Member. The thing is, you can say very clever things at this time, but where were you in 2009, and why didn't you tell me the same things when you assisted in these shameful decisions? Thank you very much.
u2022-05-17-93	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. For two minutes, I give the floor to Congresswoman Elijah Boglarka, Fidesz.
u2022-05-17-94	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I just want to make two brief comments. One comment relates to DK's speech. On the part of DK, it was said that Article 21 (1) of the EC Treaty did not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. What is needed in the second half of the century. I would just like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that Article 21 (1) of the Rules of Procedure does not apply. We're not in the second half of the century, we're in the first half of the century. But I can accept that if you have future-oriented thoughts, it is only at this time that it is very important to draw the attention of voters to the fact that we want solutions to be provided in the present. We are trying to provide solutions to the challenges of the present, and that is why this bill is made, which is why it is on our table. I would also like to point out to Mr Miklós Hajnal, and I would like to add the recognition that he is concerned about the students and students of the future planned university in Ferencváros, that there is an essential role and role for education. I feel the same way, and it is no accident that education is being published in more areas and in more than one ministry. I think that we welcome this, because it is fortunate to have as many as possible to deal with education, and as many of us consider it an important task, even to complete the university, so that we can take our personal example first. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-17-95	Thank you, Congresswoman Elias Boglarka. [[Lot. On the mark of Erzsébet Németh:]] I can't speak for two minutes because the two-minute lap is closed. But no speaker, I suggest Gy. Erzsébet Németh to ask for a word in a normal time frame, and I recommend the same to Zsolt Gréczy. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: In 15 minutes?]] It could be 15 minutes. Here you go, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, you have the floor. [[14.30]]
u2022-05-17-96	I've waited, thank you very much, Mr. President. Obviously, after 12 years, I'm gonna have to get a little routine, too, but I can do it. Without the slightest intention of convincing Lurch Nacs of anything, I might actually want to put a few things in order for the viewers and the record to follow. It's a big problem when we're talking about something we're not really aware of, and let's just say, a good word or a good bonmot, to put it mildly, we're not really showing how much we know or how we know. So before Congressman Nacsa, Mr Group Leader, talks about how many and how many advisors there are to the current mayor's leadership, I think we should have been impressed by how many advisors Mr. Mayor Tarlós has had. I would like to tell you that you had about 25 percent more advisors to Mr. Mayor Tarlos, and that the rewards and the wages of that time were also developed accordingly. I would also like to remind Mr Nacsa that, if I remember correctly, the governments before 2010 gave the 13th month pension for six or seven years. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Bad!]] You waited eleven years, for eleven years, when the economic crisis did not tear up Hungary, because it was handled by the governments before 2010, and if I remember correctly, in 2010, your Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai took over the country from Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai by admitting that significant efforts had been made and that the country was economically sound. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Near bankruptcy.]] From 2010 to 12, you never once gave a 13th month pension to pensioners. I very much hope that, by the way, not only in the election year, but also in the following year, pensioners in Hungary can expect a 13th month pension. Paks II. I think it's not fair when we just take out a sentence. If you had looked exactly at it, you would certainly know that the parliamentary decision, which I naturally voted for, was about the need to examine the possibility of what you said here. I'm trying to make sure that for the next time, when we might be able to argue here in Parliament, I'll pull out all the sentences exactly, and I promise you that I'll tell you then. With regard to rape, it is quite simply shocking to me how your memory works. The cases or cases that the opposition made public or made public after 2010 were the subject of judicial decisions in each of them, and it was absolutely clear that, yes, your parliamentary representatives treat women, what they think of women, and what they say here in this House about women, women's representatives. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What is this generalization?]] I think in the case of the blind envoy, we all remember. I have one more thing to say to you. You said you handled the crisis well. No, Congressman Nacsa, the crisis has not been handled well, including the epidemic and the crisis caused by the epidemic. More than 40,000 people died in Hungary, so that Hungary could account for or mourn most of the dead or the second most of the population in the epidemic. I think that, before making such statements, perhaps we should not just turn around in this House, perhaps we should go to a retirement home, maybe we should go and meet people and ask them that they must see and think the same Hungary as you do. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-05-17-97	Thank you very much, Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh. I can now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy for two minutes.
u2022-05-17-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to add that it is really very strange when social measures are called upon on the Gyurcsány government after 12 or eight years when there was a 13th month pension [[Nacsa Lawrence: What's eight?]] And you gave me one after 12 years in the last month. From 2002 there was a 13th month pension. I know you didn't vote most of the time, but that should be your problem. My other problem is that it was the last time a family allowance was raised, widow's pensions were settled, and until the global crisis, there was a 30 percent increase in real pensions in those eight years. Let's not forget that. Congressman Nacsa regularly mentions why the opposition does not respect the results of the elections, that people have said what they want in terms of the country's leadership, and here he is constantly scolding Budapest. Don't insult the citizens of Budapest, Congressman. The citizens of Budapest did not support Fidesz in 17 cases out of 18 districts, and I think that if the Budapest leadership had worked so poorly, this would not have been the result on 3 April. So, of course, it is always possible to give a different interpretation of why an election result will turn out the way it is, but if you ask us to consider that, well, let's just say, we find it difficult to make friends with the idea that happened on 3 April, then it is obviously not easy for you to be familiar with the idea of what happened in Budapest, even though it wasn't a coincidence. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-05-17-99	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[To Zsolt Gréczy:]] Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, turn it off! [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. No further comments were received. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, in a 30-minute time frame, who clearly wishes to respond cheerfully to what was said in the debate.
u2022-05-17-100	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I will only be very brief, because this debate is linked to the debate on the previous bill, and we have actually spent the whole morning and the first half of the afternoon together, and there has been sufficient time for everyone to express their views on this. I continue to think, and I must admit, that, thinking back on my university studies, I read and learned so much about the ideal governance structure in so many books in law and politics, in these government structures there was one thing in common that they differed from each other. In fact, when we talked about government structures in general, we learned about structures arranged in the opposite direction. So what I can tell you, critical Members of the current structure, is that there is absolutely no ideal organisation, no ideal governance structure. It is probably the case that every prime minister elected by the Parliament, or if there is no parliamentary system, must otherwise be put at the head of the executive power, a structure that makes him himself comfortable to work with and with which he can carry out the tasks in front of the country. This is what is happening in this situation, as was the case with previous governments. I asked my colleagues, when we were preparing for today's debate, to look at the debates that were held in the 18th, 14th, 10th and 2006 when our political side was in opposition position, and I can tell you that the same debates always take place. There is nothing new under the sun, and it is perfectly natural that as opposition representatives you do not support it, which is why you are here, on this side 135 Members of Parliament, because they will support it. I assume that whoever supported the Prime Minister in the vote will also support his idea of the structure of the government. There's nothing wrong with that, we repeat this whole story every four years. There is only one thing that frightens me, and if I may conclude with this, I have been so convinced in this morning's debate that the fate of the country, the future of education and health are indeed determined exclusively by the fact that it is a part of an independent educational portfolio, or perhaps a larger human development portfolio, that the future of health is determined solely by the fact that there may be a bureaucracy on its sealed paper, or a reference to some other human capital, if you are serious about this, and that is what you really think about Hungary's governance structure, and these are really the proposals that the Government of Hungary can put on its table as a suggestion, then we stand very, very badly. [[14.40]] I do not want to put Mr Hiller in a bad position, but the consideration that he has given, for example, that, let us say, in the cultural area, it is very, very important that the balance between culture and innovation is maintained, and that the economic logic of innovation obviously does not undermine another type of logic of culture, or perhaps we have heard such remarks from other Members, which we can accept. And the good Lord sees my soul, that if there had been more such comments, there would have been more such manifestations, then I would have written them down and accepted them, and in some way we would have tried to enforce these aspects in our work. But it wasn't like that. You don't accept the basic job either, I'm sorry, maybe if you were to govern it, it wouldn't be such a government structure, but we govern it, so there is such a governance structure, and with such a government structure we were able to put health care in the crisis, we were able to put in higher education as much resources as no one could ever put in it before, we were able to highlight family affairs from government priorities as we pointed out, and it is also the primary topic of the President of the Republic. In the field of environmental protection, we were able to announce a climate protection action plan, and we are fighting Brussels for our interests in energy security and energy sovereignty. So if we cannot agree that, of course, in the last 12 years, this government has not been perfect, but has tried to work well, and has tried to meet the challenges facing Hungary, and in areas where you are the most critical, and for four years, Gy. Congresswoman Németh hasn't been here in the last four years. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Not in the last 12 years.]] But the same reviews... He worked in the capital, not here, within the walls of the Parliament. I am only telling you that you do not have to reread all the parliamentary reports: we have heard the same criticisms. I think that if we hear the same criticisms over the next four years and they are so disconnected from reality, then probably in four years' time the elections will have the same or very similar results. This is not a problem for us on this side of the political field. We are happy to do so, but we will only spend four years together here, and it would be better if we could do so in much more constructive discourses. Thank you all very much for this morning and afternoon. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-17-101	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, We have the opportunity to present the amendments by the end of the meeting today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, I give the floor to Mr János Bencze, betterman, who has been making our lives miserable by pipe breaks? He spoke with a title on the agenda.
u2022-05-17-102	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Metaphorically speaking, I would like to clear the air, not only here in the Chamber, outside the walls, at home and at countless Hungarian settlements. I have spent the last ten years as a county municipal representative, and I have received numerous complaints about the unfavorable conditions of the Hungarian water network. Think about it, if someone goes home after a day's hard work, opens the tap, like drinking a glass of good Hungarian water, and what goes on in the tap: they face it countless times in the country, so that we don't even call it an undrinking brown juice. It may be suitable for baths and baths, because the need is great, but there are worse versions. When we open the faucet, the water in the faucet doesn't go forward, it goes back. The water is simply sucked back by the system, and the Hungarian citizen is standing there after the work he has done, sweating, unable to bathe or drink. At best, the tap drips, you can put a glass under it, and slowly fill it with water, drink good taste there, and put out your thirst. We looked into it, and I talked to a lot of professionals about why. I spoke to watermakers, practitioners, water experts, economic experts, mayors, and, as appropriate, spoke to the population. There's one thing we've come up with, and it's for a very simple reason: lack of money. What causes this lack of money? Let us say calmly that the situation in Hungary has been very farambuci, which is called the reduction of the rent. The cost reduction was good for one side, for the population, of course, the water prices are low, but this means that there is no money on the other side. Why is there no money? The reduction in costs means setting an official price for selling drinking water to the public, but on the other hand, on the producer side, when it is created at the waterworks, they acquire everything on a market basis, services, assets, and market-based wages. And before anyone points out to me that I want to stop the reduction of the rent, that is not true, I continue to support the fact that in Hungary the public should receive a kind of social benefit, but let's add the other side: today in Hungary, in order to replace this outdated pipe network, we need state intervention. Why do I say this pipe network is outdated? All the leading watermakers said that the biggest problem of the Hungarian pipe network is pipe breakers. That is the result of this unblessed condition, the result of which is dirty water, often undrinkable water, or lack of water. This pipe network came into the ground mostly in the '60s, asbestos with shale pipes says something to everyone, and to this day, it is being untied and untied. I would suggest to the House and the honourable Government that they use this two-thirds mandate, and what the Fundamental Law provides: give the Hungarian people the opportunity to obtain healthy, clean drinking water, i.e. to create a publicly funded programme that is nothing but a network exchange to get the right quality, proper pipes into the ground. I know it can be argued against that, yes, there has been one of these, this drinking water quality improvement program. But one thing I can tell you is that you have to pay attention when there's a pipe change or there's a pipe change, because it looks like the title of a Woody Allen movie: Take the money and run! So here we want real work, real quality work, and so it could be arranged that Hungarian people get almost unlimited amounts of normal drinking water on a daily basis. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-17-103	Thank you very much, Mr János Bencze. After the agenda, Ferenc Varga, Jobbikós, Member of the National Councils of Roma, asked for a speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-17-104	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Speaker, Ladies and gentlemen, As I noted in my first speech the sad fact that the Hungarian gypsy does not have representation at the level of the advocates, I would like to tell you as we know that the spokesperson sits in the Hungarian parliament through the system of minority self-governments, and as I myself have worked in this system for nearly eight years, so I feel that it is my duty to speak with a dog in respect of the thousands of ethnic governments that are bleeding from wounds. In order to see the basic situation, first of all, we have to say that today the operation of a Roma minority self-government largely consists in the fact that, once a year, the Roma self-government is having a family day or a Roma day, cooking a bug stew, dancing and fun for Gypsies. And members of the majority society see that we have once again wasted the money for catching up. However, there are also national governments who would normally try to carry out their duties, fight windmills in this thousand wounds in a bleeding system, and somehow in the last 12 years I have seen that they have not been supported by the government, rather, wherever they could, they have broken down the system of national government. In my speech today, I would like to stand by these national authorities and I will bring you three fundamental points that would, in effect, cost the government just one pen stroke, but could already ease the system of national governments. [[14.50]] You know, if a mayor goes from the street to his city manager's seat and doesn't have any professional experience with the management of his settlement, then he can rely on the office of that local government. He is assisted by the head of the notary, legal or management department. We gypsies, if we get into the minority self-government system, we don't get help from anyone, we can't rely on anyone. Our operation is entrusted solely to the goodwill of these professionals. And if a national government wants to work properly, it must be said that it is a huge burden on the municipalities that have already been bled out. This is precisely why my first proposal will be to facilitate the joint work of the national and local authorities, and I say that the municipalities with whom the local government operates in the municipality should receive additional resources, so that the minority self-government will not be a pain in the back of the local government, but a task to be performed in exchange for an additional source will be the operation of the minority self-government. Then I'll give you two more little examples of what the Fidesz-KDNP has changed in the past period. One of them was the removal of an appeal for task-based grants. Let's see why that's a problem. Basically, the system of minority self-governments operates in such a way that their budget consists of two main factors: operating aid and task-based support. The operating aid is a fixed form of support and is linked to the number of inhabitants living in the settlement, while the task-based support is extradited through a system of scores and the activities of the local government in the previous year are measured on the basis of the records of its decisions taken. Well, that didn't work out very well, to say the least. The task-based scores of the Roma ethnic authorities have been established in the form of a stomach attack, but at least there was an appeal. Now I don't have that either. Therefore, my second proposal will be to give back the right to appeal to the task-based support. The third is that until 31 January of each year, the cooperation agreement between the municipality and the large municipality has been required to be reviewed. You have also taken this right. In my opinion, this mandatory law provided for dialogue between the two municipalities. Fidesz-KDNP also took this and now it is enough to review this after every municipal election, i.e. every five years. So I'm going to present these three points to you. I ask you to support this.
u2022-05-17-105	Thank you very much, Congressman Ferenc Varga. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of Parliament will take place as recommended by the House Committee. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Take it easy, have a good day.
