u2022-10-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 6th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, Péter Ungár, on behalf of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[Bence Rétvári's T-shirt shows the portrait of Péter Mansfeld.]]
u2022-10-24-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, If, in recent days or weeks, we have heard what the government has said about alternative energy use, renewable energy in Hungary, then we felt as if they had always supported us to switch to green energy at least at some level. On the other hand, seven years ago, when an LMP representative asked the government why the solar cell capacity of Hungary was so low, the answer was that it could not be based on solar and wind power plants because electricity is needed at night, and even when the wind is not blowing. This professional position was the relationship of the Orbán government to alternative energy until the last period. This is a very serious problem, because if we had not wasted years in the last 12 years to build an alternative green energy network, we would now be much less dependent on Russian fossil energy and world market processes, as we could produce at least part of the energy used in Hungary. With regard to sanctions, the government is constantly engaged in a very interesting policy-making conflict: recently after the Council meeting, the Prime Minister announced that he had won a huge victory, since energy sanctions again do not apply to Hungary, and not 24 hours have passed, and one minister said that Hungary has high inflation, because there are high energy prices, because there are sanctions, sanctions that are allegedly not applicable to our country because of the government's success. This policy of the Orbán government has been to support the interests of the German industry, building European competitiveness on fossil Russian energy, together with Angela Merkel, over the past 12 years. Orbán was the only regional politician who supported the expansion of the Nord Stream pipeline for a reason, and everyone thought that this would cause geopolitical problems, and did so despite the fact that the Hungarian interest in the regional interest would clearly have been to take action against German and Russian economic mergers. And yet here we are. In 2014, Russia had already started a war against Ukraine, so the Germans led Europe's response to this was to increase Russian dependence; now they have launched a war again, and Viktor Orbán is still in favour of Russian fossil dependence. There is a national consultation on a sanctions policy, the energy part of which does not apply to Hungary, and this national consultation is taking place without asking any questions that are really important in terms of what energy policy Hungary will have in the next 20-30 years. This is why LMP has launched a green consultation that can be completed on the Zoldkonsultacio.hu site. In this we ask, among other things, about the need for a building insulation programme in Hungary to reduce household overhead costs; we ask voters about the need for a climate lease, which allows them to use public transport at a reasonable price; we ask them that the penalty taxes on solar energy are finally withdrawn; and we also ask them about the fact that the use of wind energy by the public is finally authorised by the government; finally, we also ask them, mutatis mutandis, that it is time to terminate the contracts for extremely expensive Paks expansion, built by Russian technology. We can see that the missed years of the last 12 years are coming back again and again. Despite the fact that you will be able to tell us what improvements will be made here next year after next year, and the last time you raised it in 2014 between the walls of this House is that the Hungarian electricity capacity and the network must be developed, because otherwise we will not be able to convert to alternative energy, but we can now read that according to the Hungarian Solar Solar Collection Association, thousands of jobs and the entire solar industry are being threatened by the government by punishing those who are trying to load the household solar panels into the electricity grid. The fact that a Hungarian invention, which is the solar collector that could be placed on the balcony, cannot be used in Hungary is because everything has been more important to you in recent years than spending on energy improvements. Finally, Hungary's future must be based on energy that is green, which does not contribute to climate change, and what we Hungarians are producing. This is the wind, the sun in Hungary, such as geothermal, and such is the effective use of energy both at the community transport and at the residential level. That's why the LMP launched a green consultation. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-10-24-2	I give the floor to Mrs Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary.
u2022-10-24-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I hope that all my fellow left-wing Members agree with this, and the most important thing today is that energy supply is guaranteed in Hungary. This is why we are fighting, we want heating in winter, and we are trying to help the Hungarian families, and that is why we are launching a factory rescue programme, programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, to protect Hungarian jobs, as well as Hungarian businesses. I therefore believe that last week's most important event was the summit of EU prime ministers in Brussels. The European Commission's gas price cap would have required the EU to buy natural gas only at a pre-defined maximum price. Russia has repeatedly made clear that if the EU introduces a price cap, it will no longer supply gas to the Member States. Unfortunately, in the plan of the gas cap, Brussels has met two objectives: the sanctions for reducing Russian gas supplies and the economic protection objective of lowering prices. The markets responded nervously to the plan, the price of gas continued to rise. The Commission's proposal on the gas price cap would have meant virtually a gas embargo for Hungary. However, our country's energy security cannot currently be guaranteed without Russian gas for physical and infrastructural reasons. This, I think, is not an ideological issue. [[13.10]] If we shut off gas taps coming from Russia, the Hungarian families, businesses and economy would be ruined. With the adoption of the latest proposals in Brussels, we would have risked stopping gas shipments to Hungary in a few days. However, the threat was addressed, and the Prime Ministers agreed that if there were to be a gas cap in the EU, it would not affect the long-term contracts without which Hungary's gas supply would be impossible. If there is a common gas procurement in Europe, it will not be mandatory for Hungary, so all the options remain open. This decision complements the results achieved at the EU summit in Prague at the beginning of October, when Hungary fought an exemption from the points of the eighth package with negative consequences for us. Thus, it does not apply to the gas supply of our country, nor to the energy from nuclear power plants, and even allows Hungary to build Paks II. nuclear power plant. Our country's gas supply will continue to run smoothly and fully along the southern transport route. The operation of the Turkish Stream is predictable and safe, and today it is the only East-West pipeline that operates smoothly. I believe that, in the current situation, the discussion of these issues and the recognition of these results are very, very important. Mr President, Mr President, you mentioned the issue of solar energy, the situation with regard to renewable energies. We have talked about that many times here, so I would like to highlight some details about solar panels. I would like to inform you, as you obviously know, that in five years, solar power has grown tenfold in our country. We currently have 3 thousand megawatts of solar power, and until 2026 there are more than 5 thousand megawatts, but this number is growing practically every day, so the system will not tolerate it anymore. This is why the government has decided to temporarily stress that it temporarily suspends the network feed-back of new installed domestic-sized solar power plants, but I would also like to point out that it is possible to report by 31 October. The government is working to implement the entire network modernisation programme in Hungary, which will increase the capacity of the domestic network. If the European Commission decides that Hungary will receive the part of the RRF loan, then we will be able to complete the network renovation in Hungary. After that, of course, the current suspension will be lifted or there will be no obstacle to the accession of new solar power plants. Minister for Finance Mihály Varga attended the meeting of the EU Finance Ministers Council at the beginning of October. It was said here that Hungary could receive nearly HUF 300 billion to reduce the use of fossil energy, which could strengthen the energy security of our country in the coming years. I ask for further support from Congressman [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that we can continue to increase renewable energy sources in our country. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-4	Thank you. László Toroczkai, leader of the Hungarian faction. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2022-10-24-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to ask the government when it's finally planning to break off with the compromise, even cowardly, policy of the Carpathian Basin that we've been experiencing here in the Carpathian Basin since the 1990s. What am I thinking? I think that it is time for the Hungarian government to understand that Hungary and the Carpathian Basin are not located in Scandinavia, so it is not Finland, it is not Iceland, nor Norway, nor Sweden, but Ukraine, for example, and countries who have not responded positively to the gestures that Hungarian governments have been doing continuously since the 1990s, but rather consider as cowardice, rather as a surrender, that when we are attacked by any kind of attack against Hungary, there will be no real reaction from the Hungarian governments. Unfortunately, this has not changed in the past twelve years, and here is a very recent example of the shameful destruction of the work Turul statue, which is not unprecedented. Any anti-Hungarian medium or political analyst now says, whether in Ukraine or in Hungary, that this is the answer to Hungary's failure to send weapons and soldiers to the war in Ukraine, as the initiative itself was launched in 2018 in Munkács. So it has nothing to do with the current war sanctions policy, it has nothing to do with the Ukrainian war, but it has something to do with the fact that in Ukraine for a long time there has been an anti-Hungarian regime in power, which tends to systematically want to wipe out the Hungarians in Transcarpathia. This process is not in 2018, but if we go back in time, we see that it has already started in early 2014, so not only is it not even related to the current war, but also to the crisis in Crimea, we are talking about much earlier processes. In 2014, the idea of removing the statue of Mihály Munkácsy in the centre of the city of Munkács, which has already been done in Munkács in recent years, also before the start of the war. I don't recall any response from the government at that time. Inviting the Ukrainian agent or talking to the ambassador is not enough to respond, perhaps even in Scandinavia it would not be enough, certainly not enough in our area. But let's see what's happened since 2014. Ukraine, the Ukrainian authorities banned Hungarian politicians and Hungarian public figures from Ukraine. For example, Loránt Hegedűs started in 2014 with a Reformed pastor; in 2015 Magyar Gábor entrepreneur, Ferenc Szaniszló journalist was included on this list; in 2018 Hungarian national organizers and players of the football team of Transcarpathia were banned from Ukraine, among them the nine-time team captain György Sándor. I can list this list for a long time, it would not take five minutes, but in 2020 we got there, and there is still no war in Ukraine, that Nacsa Lőrinc, spokesperson for KDNP, will be banned, and then János Potápi Árpád, State Secretary for National Policy of the Prime Minister's Office, will be banned, then István Grezsa, Minister for Cooperation between Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County and Transcarpathia, and the Minister's Commissioner for Kindergarten Development in the Carpathian Basin, will be able to list for a long time. [[13.20]] What responses did the Hungarian Government take to these measures? Where are those Ukrainian anti-Hungarian politicians who have been banned from the territory of Hungary, because perhaps they will understand from this? So I demand from the government that Viktor Baloga, the Ukrainian Member of Parliament, behind this outrageous anti-Hungarian work, be banned immediately from Hungary with his son, the current mayor of Munkács, and Andrij Baloga. And let me note that the government has done nothing in its response, for example, that Vitalij Antyipov, representative of the Beregszász Minor Region Council, who regularly conducts anti-Hungarian outbursts, who threatens not only Hungarian representatives in Beregszász, but also Hungarian officials, because this man is not only an anti-Hungarian Ukrainian politician, but also a criminal, a cigarette smuggler, as far as I know, is not banned from Hungary, but he has received Hungarian citizenship from the Hungarian authorities on the basis of the 2019 Hungarian police wanted list. What's going on in this case is a disgrace! I look forward to the government's decisive response. Perhaps this will teach Ukrainian anti-Hungarian politicians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-24-6	To reply, Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary.
u2022-10-24-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Perhaps we should start with what we agree on, because there was a part of his speech, and there was one that we didn't. If I may, I'd like to speak on both sides. With regard to the removal of the Turulsculpture, you are absolutely right to express your indignation. We have also said that this is an obvious provocation, an anti-Hungarian action, an anti-Hungarian provocation, which is unacceptable. We've requested Ukraine's temporary agent. I understand that you consider this to be nothing, but in diplomatic life, this is important. We also said, Mr Group Leader, that we have a good working relationship with Governor Viktor Mikita of Transcarpathia. I hope you do not mind this, because it is also in the interests of Hungarians living in Transcarpathia to work with the local governor, and the local governor should be interested in living together peacefully and not working against it. Viktor Mikita has done a lot and has done a lot to prevent such provocations, and his work is commendable. However, it is true that this was an outrageous operation. We take every opportunity and demand that this situation be clarified, restored and that such actions not take place. Such actions are always unacceptable, but they are particularly unacceptable in such a serious war situation that we are now seeing. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, At the same time, you began by accusing the government of compromise. I would like to reject that in the strongest possible terms. Before I go any further on why I refuse, allow me a parentheses if it is a compromise that I would like to draw your attention to the avoidance of compromise in the sense that there was an extreme right-wing party, your predecessor, a Jobbik, which has negotiated, and has now become a subsidiary of the Gyurcsány Party. I would like to draw your attention to avoiding this path if you do not want to go to the fate of your predecessors, Jobbik, and do not want to be part of the Gyurcsány team; if this is a compromise. The Hungarian government has never negotiated with Hungarians from abroad. We have always stood up for the Hungarians from abroad, so we also stand for the Hungarians from Transcarpathia. If you are interested in the pre-war period, Mr. Group leader, let me draw your attention to the fact that there have been indeed tendential and continuous violations of minority rights, violations of national minority communities, including the Hungarian community. We gave the most appropriate answer to this, blocking Ukraine's Euroatlantic integration, because it was our only and strongest tool for standing up for the Hungarian national community. Then, unfortunately, the war broke out, and at that point we said that our conflicts and disputes would at least be temporarily put aside and that we would stand up for the party that was attacked. So it is not true what you said, neither in relation to the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, nor in relation to any other Hungarian community from abroad, that the Hungarian government would not stand by them. Those who never stand there are left-wing representatives and left-wing parties, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, who typically built their policies on hating Hungarians from abroad. And one more thought, if I may, about compromise. Now I would like to come back to the borders, because the government does not know compromise about the Hungarian interest. It is also important to talk about this. We are living in a war period, there is a war in our neighbourhood, and it is important to stand up for the Hungarians from abroad, as we do. It is also important to stand up for Hungarians living in Hungary, for Hungarians living within the borders, and to constantly defend Hungarian interests. The Hungarian interest is energy independence and energy security. That's why the government did a lot of work. To give you just a few details: in 2010, we had a long-term gas procurement agreement with the Russians, now we have two because we have one at the Krk LNG terminal in Croatia, in 2010 we had gas interconnectors with two neighbouring countries, and now we have six out of seven neighbouring countries, and we are doing everything we can to combat energy prices against the shock and otherwise ineffective and ineffective sanctions. Support the government in this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-8	I now give the floor to Bence of Turdai.
u2022-10-24-9	Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Dear Guests! At the latest on 23 October 2022, it was revealed to everyone that the conditions of governance in Hungary were no longer in place. Firstly, the government has no social support, no moral basis, and no professional knowledge of governance. What we have is just stealing and propaganda. But let's go down the aisle. He has no social support, because if he did, the Prime Minister wouldn't hide from the people. Let's see: Viktor Orbán gave his festive speech in front of about 80 people, while Gergely Christmas spoke in front of 80,000 people, as did the students, teachers and parents' representatives in front of a huge crowd, with their support. And it is also instructive to know who was there in that 80 or 180. For Viktor Orbán, only the Fideszniks applauded, and here there were bright-eyed students who were free, independent, able to think in the crowd of 80,000. I understand how this hurts you, but the truth is still this. Go out to the people from time to time, and they may hear it with their own ears. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] The second condition of government is that it has a moral basis. When Viktor Orbán questions the moral basis and foundation of the whole change of regime by betraying his 56 ideas and even betraying his own words, thoughts and actions in 89, there is little to be said about the fact that the moral foundations of their governance have actually been abolished. A protester put it very plasticly, and I'll quote it a little further: "The Russkies are no longer speaking home!" You know, putin's word was sweet or something. [[Bence Rétvári: How tall you are!]] Russians, home! Dear colleagues, this is the message that left your leader's mouth quite often in 89, and now we are somehow not hearing it. The third is that there are no conditions for policy grounding nor for governance. Your second line, who have always felt that what they've done is very embarrassing, they've spread it, they've built this tops, they steal, they steal, but at least they can steer. Well, now it's just become clear to everyone that it's also a lie. The fact that the education system has collapsed, I do not think it is necessary to explain after yesterday, and these young people are able to say this very well here on the gallery, go up to them, visit them, and ask what they think of the Hungarian education system, which lacks 16,000 teachers. But the same is the case in health care, where only nearly 700 GP practices are unfilled, but this means that over 900 thousand Hungarians do not have basic medical care. And there could be concrete examples of OBs at the same time at St. Imre's Hospital, and I think it could be continued indefinitely. But I'm sure the police minister will solve it, for example, by banning Hungarians' free medical rights, shutting down hospitals and bringing together health institutions. That's what they can do with their great knowledge of government. [[13.30]] In general, you have failed to provide public services, a good example of what you will do with education, health, versus Christmas Gergely, let's say, how you dealt with garbagemen's dissatisfaction. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You went there and made a deal with them, didn't you? (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) And you guys are gonna want to shoot one of them, like the classic said. [[Who says that?! Intercoms, noise.]] The last two areas to be discussed are social and green issues. [[It's constant noise. Mr. Novak intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] a series of government failures. That is why the Dialogue launched its rezsiutatvány campaign, its campaign for green homes and green jobs, to which we look forward to the support of all Hungarian people who feel responsible for the future, where we will tell you exactly what to do, as we have also told you what to do in social and green affairs over the past 12 years. So what I'm saying is that with you, there is no future here with the orange rule, you've lived up to the future, you've ruined everything you can. The conditions for governance in Hungary are no longer given, and the only question is whether or not to draw conclusions from this. [[Eszter Vitalos: Sit down now!]] I look forward to your answers and your actions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2022-10-24-10	Before I give the floor to Mr Dömötör, Secretary of State, I would like to inform Members, after those sitting on the gallery have no right to express their agreement or even protest, so they could not object to the fact that they were hugged by the Member's quasi bosom, even though the young people in the gallery above are guests of the Parliamentary Office, and they may, in particular, sympathize with one or another party. [[Bence Rétvári: Self-goal! Self-goal, Bence!]] But what the congressman was kind enough to inform us about, it's not their fault. [[Intervention on the opposition side: It is indeed not their fault!]] Mr. Secretary of State Dömötör has the floor.
u2022-10-24-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In every case, the electorate decides who is empowered to rule in Hungarian politics or in general government. That was decided in April this year, with more than 3 million members of the governing party honoring their trust, and a lot less trust, a lot less honorary vote on your party, and a few percent support on your party, if I were to take the liberty of taking off on your own once in a lifetime. And I would like to add one more thing: we always give your voters respect, regardless of whether they disagree with us on any matter, and we never allow a tone that you always do. You don't have to respect us, we're fine without it, but I'm asking you to honor the more than 3 million people who awarded the ruling parties with their votes, please. [[Bence of Turdai: I was talking about you, not the voters!]] if this kind of respect in Hungarian public life matters to you at all. And I find it particularly unworthy of you to try to bring the harshest, most obscene words to Parliament. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right! Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Let us at least maintain a certain level, even if we disagree on fundamental matters. As regards yesterday's celebrations and demonstrations, I am very pleased that Hungary is today a country where everyone can express their views peacefully, whether they agree with the ruling parties or do not agree with the ruling parties, whether it supports us, supports you, or simply wishes to pay your respects, and would like to remember the heroes of 56. It's against that time when the one person who didn't ripen, the rememberers were waiting for a horse-riding attack, a rubber bullet, and their eyes were shot out. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And after that, you're talking about democracy, it's a little crooked. As far as professionalism is concerned, honourable Member, that is what we have good experience with. For three years, we've seen what your professionalism means, let's say, in the matter of city leadership in the capital. [[Eszter Vitályos: Quite little!]] Chaos, the traffic situation is getting worse, public cleanliness is getting worse, I don't know if I'm using a good word at all, slipping investments that aren't coordinated with each other. And if I had to sum up your results in a sentence, it would be very easy for me to get to the womb, not any more. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] When it comes to promises and living issues, I clearly remember that in the 2019 campaign, Gergely Christmas promised heating support to all pensioners. [[Bence of Turda: $48 thousand in overhead!]] to all pensioners. That promise didn't come to nothing in that form. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And if you look at the fact that a left-wing shadow government has been formed, and the question of living matters, let's see what this shadow government represents. For example, the fact that the pricestops should be driven out, the gas stop should have been driven out by the end of August, and they also said that the type of energy price support the government introduced and maintained to this day would be a flawed policy, so that if it were up to you, it would not be at all. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] And by the way, you made an alliance with those who didn't raise wages for teachers, but took their wages, who ended education in nearly 400 places, rather than improving its quality. (Rebeth Szabó intervenes.) What I would like to say to you on the issues of livelihoods because I see that there is a debate here on sanctioning matters, you are trying to get the significance of this completely out of the way, we are standing up against the current sanctions decisions, the decisions taken in Brussels [[Bence of Turdai: You voted for it!]] because they are bringing the European economy to its knees. In spite of your recent statement, the Prime Minister has made it impossible for us not to be subject to it. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] The problem with these is that they reduce the leeway of governments, reduce the room for manoeuvre of budgets, and that governments, European governments, will have much less opportunities to take measures to protect families. Let me add quietly that if it had been up to you, there would be no gas supply in Hungary at the same level as there is now, which is still guaranteed. [[Tordai Bence: Seven times the price?! Wouldn't that be seven times the price?!]] During the campaign, you demanded that we shut down the gas taps. If it were up to you, we wouldn't be able to count on nuclear power, they would've included it in the penalty circle. And to say one more thing: if it were up to you, Hungary would not have the EU funds it would otherwise have. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Open campaign against Hungary receiving EU funds [[Bence Tordai and Rebekah Szabó intercede. Eszter Vítalos to Turdai Bencé: Stop yelling!]] and to say one more thing, the necessary legislative amendments will not be voted in this House, while these resources also play a big, big role in raising educators' wages. [[Bence of Turdai: Very weak! The president's ringing the bell.]] Thus, the absurd situation is that the left is financed from abroad [[Bence of Turdai: Rubel government! Rubel right!]] but they will not give us the EU funds that we otherwise have, and you have a big, big responsibility in this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-12	I would like to reiterate that, at the next House Committee meeting, we are going to spend five minutes interpreting the name of the Dialogue Party, because you obviously interpret it as being the subject of a comment by the Secretary of State. But I don't think that's the dialogue. One party listens to the other, then vice versa [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] This is my understanding of the dialogue. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's no coincidence that your support is as high as it is. Mr. Brenner Koloman, Deputy Chief of the Group.
u2022-10-24-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Freedom begins where fear ceases. Within the walls of Parliament is the plaque of István Bibó, which I believe is symbolically conservative from the faction office of our political community. [[Bence Rétvári: Which one is it?!]] where it says that István Bibó was standing here in 1956 as the last responsible government official, as a representative of the legitimate Hungarian government. Our politicians all over the country remembered and held their heads before the freedom fighters of 56 and I myself did so in the prison cemetery in Sopronkőhida, which our members and sympathizers had fixed up a few weeks earlier in completely unblessed circumstances, so that it might be worthy to do so. I think that I would like to mention two events from last weekend between the walls of this House, which I think shows very well the contrast that the representatives of the Fidesz one-party overpower and the representatives of free and civil Hungary lived on 23 October. [[Bence Rétvári: Ferenc Gyurcsány is the representative of free Hungary!]] One of them was a bit surreal, which reminded me of when in the communist one-party system, if there were more of them than the three of them who were about my age, maybe they still remember this period, they were certified by the police, sometimes brought in. Now, at the Soviet monument in Szabadság tér, László Lukács and I took a video with some of our sympathizers, before that we told the police, the patrolman. Compared to this, after we signaled it, carrying the holey flag of the 56's and the Russkies, home! And let us also indicate here, among the walls of Parliament, that we have tabled a proposal for a resolution that there is nothing to do with the monument symbolizing the Soviet-Russian occupation, after which 12 policemen suddenly appeared and everyone was confirmed. [[13.40]] Now, you're gonna make me shivering like that, are you serious? So there's no public security in the country, because there aren't enough policemen, but when MPs deal with the police patrol in front of him, there's suddenly a justification, isn't there, comrades? So, it's a shame and a shame that we have to live this way in 2022, on October 23rd. How much contrast was there in that crowd of tens of thousands of dollars that was exactly how much, I would trust Philip Rákay Fidesz to decide whether it was 50,000, 80,000 or more. In this crowd, I have seen the same faces that began at the time.56: the students of ELTE and the University of Arts, because they see what we admit to being the 21st. In the century, in the century of knowledge and information, there is no future without a teacher, and without knowledge, Hungarian citizens will not have access to XXI. From the wealth and freedom of the century. That is why we support it as a responsible conservative force and call together an educational round table, accepting five points of the student organisations that are protesting, to finally discuss it together, as we should, in a balanced civil democracy, do, by the way, what are the extremely urgent steps for which we have nothing to look forward to. Dear fellow Members, Fidesz, It is a false and cynical argument in which you tie the immediate 50% wage increase of teachers to EU funds. No! We want a turnaround in education in Klebelsberg, and not 6 but 8 percent of the total national product must be spent on education during a critical period. It would be worth everything; and we do not want to reach 85 percent of the minimum wage in three years, as Minister Gulyás suggested, by linking it to EU funds, but we should, in our opinion, give it to the teachers, because there is no better future without a teacher. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2022-10-24-14	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2022-10-24-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have spoken eloquently about how Jobbik would like to be the heir of 56. Well, let's see what a real prisoner of '56, your former vice president, Levente Murányi, said about Jobbik. He said about Jobbik: it's all about money now. The whole Jobbik thing is about money. Jobbik has nothing to do with the national party. You say many times that you are a national party and your 56 Vice President says that you are not a national party; this is a cattyvas; Gyurcsány's pussycats; Márton Gyöngyösi is no more moral than István Földi and Mr Gyöngyösi [[Sic!]] He said about your party president, he's not a traitor, he's more than a traitor, he's a CIA agent. That's how a real 56, ex-right-on-the-right-hand man talks about these right-handers, honourable Member. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] You said we had a dictatorship here. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I didn't say that!]] [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I didn't say that!]] This is what you wrote, honourable Member, that the breath of communism is here (Dr. Brenner Koloman: I did not say that!) You can feel it on the back of your head. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You're getting a reading lesson, Mr. Fidesz State Secretary.]] because you were certified at a national holiday in Budapest. Well, what do you say about what happened 16 years ago in Budapest? Why did you forget to talk about that? Is that democracy to you? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Never!]] If there was ever a mass violation, a mass violence against Hungarians, then the 23 October 2006, the days before and the days after that, when people could go out peacefully to show themselves, but they could not expect to return home peacefully. And today, thank God, this is not the world we live in, but you would bring this world back. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: No! Never!]] You have entered the political community with the people who have maintained that system in the elections. [[Eszter Vitályos to the benches of opposition parties: It's not funny!]] You want the rubber bullet again? Is that democracy to you? Is that what you're trying to restore? Do you think that should be done in the future? Because the Jobbik could have chosen another way, he would have had the other way: he says that I will not collide with Gyurcs, I will not be a new force. It started that way, but then two cycles passed, and they came to the embrace of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who said things about you that we would never say. Because he said about you and the Dialogue and the LMP that those who do not have a message or a base are not needed, those parties must be abolished. We never talked about you like that. As has been said here today, we have always respected your voters who voted for you. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: The dome is falling on us!]] And so do we, and so do you. We have never told you, as the leader of the left, that there is no need for these parties. If we had said that, you would have come upon us to see what an anti-democratic attitude this is on the right side, to say to you that these parties are not needed, because all parties are needed, and the more parties there are, the more democracy there is, that's what you say. And then they listened silently, I don't know whether they were crying or laughing, but in any case they listened in silence when they said to you, Ferenc Gyurcsány: after the EP election, we will be able to pull through, and these parties will not remain here, which have neither message nor support. So, honourable Member, don't worry about democracy at the moment; before 2010, there was something to fear. You may have feared then; I think you thought like us, but then you and Jobbik changed your position from the enchantment of the proximity of power. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And we didn't say that, but one day after October 23, it was probably worth quoting Murányi Levente. Honourable Congressman, As far as the question of teachers is concerned, because it is a really important question: we are also working to ensure that the wage increase that the government has decided on and that it will take place in two months' time with teachers, as it did this year's 1st January, should not only be the 10 percent that we have already decided on, but also the greater. All we want to do is use our own resources to do that. There is a part of our own resources that we have in our national budget, and there is one that we have in our common budget in the European Union. The decision is joint and part of the budget belongs to Hungary. Just that none of you dared to stand up, no left-wing politician dared to stand up, and to say in Brussels that these resources should not be withheld from Hungarian teachers for no reason, but will be assigned to Hungary from tomorrow so that Hungary can refer them further to Hungarian teachers. It's hundreds of billions, not small amounts, it's hundreds of billions! You know, the people you started the election with reduced the wages of teachers during a crisis. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] We want to increase it in a major crisis, but we ask you not to prevent it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-24-16	I now give the floor to the leader of the Momentum, Ferenc Gelencsér.
u2022-10-24-17	Mr. Speaker, Dear House, Yesterday, on the 66th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution, approximately 80,000 people protested for teachers. Why did the teachers protest? The answer is simple: because they are desperate and have no other means in their hands, because the burden of public burdens is not proportionate in this country; because Hungarians pay so much tax that they will collapse under their weight; because you say that you will solve the problems of living today by 2025, and until then hats and coats, you say that the bun is not small. But what is the tax that we pay so much of? The tax is a compulsory contribution to the achievement of common objectives by members of a given community. We all pay different taxes. For the sake of simplicity, let's count an easy number, say that the gross salary of 100 HUF is paid to someone, and they receive 66 forints of it. This is your net salary after paying your personal income tax and contributions. After that, he went shopping, and if he spent all 66 forints, he was able to buy for himself for 48 forints, as he paid new taxes during the purchase. Such a tax, for example, is extremely high VAT, but we can talk about excise duty, or even public health product tax, and so on. Let's just say the truth: it's the Fidesz premium, it's the price of bad governance. The Hungarian people pay an amazing amount of tax, with an amazing amount of tax forints contributing to the achievement of common goals. But what are these common objectives, my fellow Members? Health care is in ruins, education is in ruins; what do you use the Hungarian people's taxes for? Tens of thousands of Hungarian families are still anxious about how bad governance will solve their children's winter shoes? How are you going to buy a new one when the Fidesz premium makes anything very affordable in stores? [[13.50]] Unless they catch a sale, the purchase of a pair of boots with more winters means about 15,000 forints minus the family register. Think about it. In the case of a family with three children, this is at least 45,000 forints. High school students have to sit in the classroom at 18 degrees because of your bad governance. After parents pay a third of their earnings to the state, they pay all contributions and taxes, they still have to save money on warm clothes, because there is no heating in the classroom. Ladies and gentlemen, This is outrageous! All the taxes they collect, the money that comes from the record VAT, the support they received from the EU, which went to about 4 percent of domestic GDP, and finally not to the development and insulation of schools, according to your decision. We have cold schools and huge stadiums. They said this policy was gonna make him world champion, but instead, food-pretty became world champion. This is your fault. This is the result of bad governance. Put him up on the wall, be proud of him, that's what they did with the two-thirds authority of 12 years. That's not what they promised! In the Momentum, we are not looking out for our own interests, but for the future of this country. And the truth is that Hungary's future lies in education, so until wages are properly raised, teachers must be given sia-free. It would be the least on your part after the first time in years that inflation has been promised just above or above the pay increase. But let's not stop here. We need a constructive debate and dialogue on the issue of fair taxation; we need a comprehensive VAT reform; we need a comprehensive income tax reform. What we need is a fair share of money left in the pockets of our fellow countrymen, who are not the most wealthy, who work fairly. Hungarians cannot pay any more taxes, they cannot bear any more burdens. Take responsibility for the unfairly fattened oligarchy that you call your national capital and help out the troubled people to whom you have fattened up in your hard work. The development of Hungary is in the interests of all of us; I hope we can at least agree on this, although sometimes I am not even sure. The Momentum will present its tax reform proposals this week, and you will obviously vote them out of the gut. But you know what? Read it, see if there's anything in it that you can agree with, take it over, present it as your own idea, as you normally do, it won't cause us any questions of vanity. Hungarian society is in great trouble because of your bad governance, and it is time to pay off the debt, honourable Members. Make righteous decisions for the sake of the people. Serve those who have been sworn to serve. Serve the Hungarian people at last, because this is the responsible policy! Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-10-24-18	Mr. Balázs Fürjes has the floor.
u2022-10-24-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Well, we'd have thought of a lot of things. There's this joke, isn't it, that the peasant uncle will be taken by his granddaughter by plane after he gets the pilot's license I thought, I thought... well, I didn't think... Well, that the left... [[Szabolcs Szabó: This could not be said!]] I thought you guys knew the joke, but I'd be happy to tell it to Congressman out of session. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Telling jokes is not...]] So I didn't think the left would charge the right-wing civilian government with overtaxation when we were the government of tax cuts for 12 years. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We are not on the government...]] If I start now to list how many types of taxes we have reduced in 12 years, most of all personal income tax and corporate tax on businesses, and how many times you have not voted in favour of these tax reductions, that would be exhausting the speech. [[Gergely Arató: Can we get Secretary Schanda back?]] Compared to that, you'd be raising personal income tax to up to 30 percent, introducing more keys, raising corporate tax. You did not vote for it on one occasion when we proposed and implemented a VAT reduction, and the left-wing opposition submitted a tax increase proposal of HUF 3000 billion to the budget. What are we going to do about what we are collecting from taxes that are constantly reduced? For example, we're gonna have to pay rent. All over Europe, it is unprecedented that every family receives HUF 181 000 per month to pay the gas and electricity bill. [[Gergely Harvesto: It's so unprecedented that we don't have it!]]
u2022-10-24-20	... be quiet!
u2022-10-24-21	We introduced pricestops, interest-stops, we extended them now, and we fixed interest rates for small and medium-sized enterprises due to rising, changing interest rates, we introduced a factory-saving program this weekend, and we have a job-saving program if needed. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What did the President say? I didn't hear you!]] There's been a lot of reference here for the weekend. In freedom fighting times, it is up to freedom fighters to defend and gain Hungarian freedom. Under democratic conditions, the Hungarians empower the national government to represent the programme of prosperity and freedom of their own free will, and we are empowered to do so. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: This is Jobbik's program, hello!]] Hungary is the first for us, as well as for our 56 freedom heroes. I hope you understand, because we live life in Hungarian, look at the world in Hungarian, and measure everything from a Hungarian perspective. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] We also think to you, Honourable Congressman Tordai, that the country is not for sale. [[Bence of Turda: Except...]] Consciousness can only come from the heart, and the freedom of Hungarians is not a negotiation. We would never sell our political community. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Unlike you, we never sell our independence, and we don't let anyone buy our community with rolling dollars. [[Eszter Vitalos: Dollar Left!]] Just as Hungary, our patriotic political community will never be a colony against the left, our history proves that it is time for you to understand. [[Bence of Turdai: Now get back to Moscow and say...]] You can't love the country from foreign wages, and you can't fight for it, which Hungarians can. [[Bence of Turdai: Repeat this in a mirror.]] The Momentum, I don't know, has a dilemma going on between you and your president or shadow president, as I understand it, who the real president of the Momentum was this weekend with a surprising statement. I'm talking about Anna Donath, and you will decide who the real boss is. [[Ferenc Gelencsér: Tax of teachers!]] Speaking of educators, surprisingly, a single opposition statement could be agreed this week. The Shadow President said that either of them could compare the battle of freedom with the political struggles of 2022, who, as a leftist, opposes the Government of Viktor Orbán and has a very bad opinion of us. Anyone who makes an equal mark between 56 and 2022, I'm sorry, he just doesn't know what he's talking about. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-22	Now it's time for the group leader of MSZP, Bertalan Tóth.
u2022-10-24-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a respectful question for the Fidesz-KDNP Members sitting here. Why are Finland and Sweden obstructing NATO accession? [[Lőrinc Nacsa: How nice of you to come in, Mr. Group Leader.]] Why do they not want to strengthen peace and security in Europe? Today, the situation is that only Hungary has not ratified the international agreement on accession to Sweden and Finland, and the Hungarian decision is only hindered by the representatives of the Fidesz and KDNP fractions; 135 brave people who have decided against the interests of Hungary on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, It is rare that the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Government are in the same position on the matter of accession and on this matter, at least in appearances. You know that Hungary joined NATO 25 years ago, during the governance of the MSZP, after a decisive referendum. Since then, the Hungarian Socialist Party has been committed to strengthening this federal system, which guarantees peace and security in Europe and the Euroatlantic region. The Fidesz government seems to think the same, since on 14 July it submitted to Parliament a bill on ratification of the international treaty for NATO accession, quite rightly. The government has done the same thing we would have done in this matter. The problem is, it's been three months since then. It could have been taken on a schedule at the first two sessions of the autumn session, but it didn't happen. Three weeks ago, on behalf of the MSZP faction, I initiated the discussion of this issue, but László Kövér and the Fidesz majority, the pro-government representatives, prevented this. [[14.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, This has created an extremely unpleasant and shameful situation for all of us. The government is constantly obsessed with embarrassing explanations. They are trying to make our allies believe that they are in control of the situation, that it will be up to the Parliament to decide on this, and they are here trying to make them believe that the government has no influence on the Parliament to discuss these proposals. Isn't that funny? After 12 years of continuous and systematic destruction, as far as the rule of law is concerned. And unfortunately, everyone can see now that this is a cynical charade you're playing. Don't be ridiculous. But some Fidesz MEPs also feel that this attitude is more than embarrassing, it is an amazing damage to Hungary. They can see it, so they started playing a lying charade. They said we wouldn't discuss this proposal because the Parliament's legislative program was very full. Instead, we were amused by the many amendments to the Statute of the Universal Postal Association, the international conventions on the avoidance of double taxation, the termination of the Investment Promotion Agreement with Norway, and NATO accession was not included on this agenda. So, according to Fidesz, this is more advanced than the strengthening of the military federal system guaranteeing the security and peace of Hungary during the war we are near. Shame on you! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I have re-initiated the adoption of laws enabling Finland and Sweden to join NATO. There is nothing to prevent us from starting to negotiate proposals for NATO enlargement. If the Fidesz and KDNP fractions do prevent this, it means that they are clearly playing Putin's sheet music, it means that they will continue to build the happiest barracks of the Gazprom. If they decide to do so, they all deserve the name Squawk. Ladies and gentlemen, Have you just thought of putting this proposal into a social debate after three months? I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of the state secretary sitting here to try to convince the Members of Parliament of Fidesz and KDNP to make the right decision by the vote on the agenda. I ask the members of the Parliamentary Assembly not to vote against the inclusion of the Government's proposal on the agenda, to support my initiative to discuss the issue of accession to Sweden and Finland on the Government's proposal for our common future, Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-10-24-24	Dear Chief of Staff, I did not consider his comment on me as a criticism of the sitting, despite his involvement in the relevant part of the house rules, but apparently you do not know the rules of the house or deliberately ignore them. The reason I was forced to refuse your paper the other day was because it wasn't house regulation. Once again, as you referred to it, you submitted this, also out of house, so I was forced to write you a letter today, stating quite clearly why I am doing this, in which I reject your initiative, which I am afraid you are not doing in good faith, deliberately disregarding the relevant part of the house regulation, so that I can do nothing but reject your initiative. So much for your honesty and good faith. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame! Dr. Bertalan Tóth: The shame of not negotiating! A statement from the Fidesz: You haven't been here in a month!]] Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, He asked an important question about the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. I would also like to say this, of course, but you have accused the government and the governing parties of treason, so that if I understand correctly, you have angered us and accused us of treason in relation to the Finns and the Swedes. Let me quote you. Bertalan Tóth, MSZP: That's what you said about the gas reservoirs, Mr. Head of the Group. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Storage!]] [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Storage!]] You said that Hungary bought iron, wires and pipes for no reason. That's how he talked about gas reservoirs. (Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Storage!) These irons, wires and pipes are Hungary's energy security. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right!]] If it had been up to you and you, as it has been for you at a time, you would have sold everything and bought nothing back. You sold all strategic capacity. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Mr Tordai's comment is also very exciting, I understand the frustration, we are at peace with it, but it is still true that the left has sold all strategic capacity, including gas reservoirs. [[Bence of Turdai: Storage!]] And when the Orbán government bought these back, I quote once again Bertalan Tóth, who said that we buy iron, wires and pipes for no reason. In parentheses, I would add that when the gas reservoirs were bought back, [[Intercoms from opposition parties: Storage!]] Then the same attack came on the part of the Gyurcsány Party, threatened to press charges, and they said it was a completely unnecessary investment. So the one who is a traitor, who never accidentally hits the Hungarian interest, and never decides on the Hungarian interest, is the Hungarian left. When, in an interview, a host who could not be accused of being biased on the right, he told me what to do now, the Hungarian left was wrong about gas as well. But are they always wrong when it comes to Hungarian interests? Are you wrong about protecting the country's security in relation to migration? Are you wrong about buying or supporting a vaccine in connection with Covid, and are you wrong when there is a war on country security in our neighbourhood? Are you wrong to defend the country's energy security? Do you ever happen to find out what should be represented, what is the interest of the Hungarian people? And you accuse us, Your Honour, of treason? ! When you and your political community sold everything? ! And if it were up to you, we would not be able to talk about Hungarian energy security at the moment, because Hungarian energy security has the following conditions. Make a long-term gas procurement agreement with Russia, which covers about half of the annual gas consumption in Hungary. If it were up to you or the past, we wouldn't have such an agreement, and we wouldn't be able to get around half of the annual gas consumption in Hungary from Russian sources on an annual basis. The second condition of Hungarian energy security is the Turkish Stream gas pipeline. We were attacked a great deal when we built this, and you are your allies from abroad, and now this is the only gas pipeline that operates at 100% capacity and brings Russian gas to Europe and thus to Hungary without any problems. The third condition of Hungarian energy security is to have a place where we store the gas we buy. These capacities were bought back by the Orbán government because you sold them earlier. And, by the way, if we are about energy security, you have neither supported nor supported the reduction of the rent now, and you support the sanctions policy, the sanctions policy that would destroy the entire European economy and the Hungarian economy if the government did not fight against it. We do not expect that we can count on your support once in the context of sanctions policy, since you never represent the interests of Hungary. [[Bence of Turda: Are you saying something about NATO accession?]] We believe that the accession of the Finns and the Swedes to NATO is important, and the government supports this, and has submitted its proposal to Parliament, but in the current agenda, Parliament's agenda has been drawn up by an agreement with the Union. With good hope this year [[Defiance from DK's ranks.]] the Finnish and Swedish issues can also be addressed. If you do not obstruct the EU agreement, we may be able to move faster. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-26	Now it's Agnes Vadai's turn.
u2022-10-24-27	Dear House, In my view, Viktor Orbán's insufferably close relations with Moscow and Vladimir Putin pose a threat to Hungarian national security and sovereignty and undermined Hungary's credibility in NATO. You could have turned back from the East to the West, but you did not, deliberately and premeditatedly, prevent the ratification of the NATO accession of Sweden and Finland in the Parliament. Hungary is now the only EU Member State that has not done so, even though you have previously supported enlargement at the NATO summit in Madrid. There are many theories about what motivates the government of an EU and NATO member country to take such a historic act, even though one of the heads of the Ministry of Defence spoke clearly in a radio interview in which the reasons for the delay were asked. [[14.10]] He explained that, with the accession of the two northern countries, NATO would go from Turkey to Finland, and I would quote this literally: "It cannot be counterbalanced militaryly on Russia's part. The question arises as to why a NATO country's defence leadership is concerned that Russia is not able to offset NATO. [[Bence of Turdai: For he is a traitor!]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that is exactly the point of NATO enlargement! Yes, the even stronger NATO is indeed not in the interests of Putin, but in the interests of the Euroatlantic region and of Hungary in it. Yes, if NATO is stronger, it will have even greater deterrent power against Russia, and there will be even less chance that Vladimir Putin will attack NATO once. Dear House, On 24 February, the Prime Minister's Russian boss decided to start a war against a sovereign country in violation of all international legal standards. Russian political and military leadership is responsible for bombing Ukrainian kindergartens, schools, theatres and hospitals, and they are responsible for leaving mass graves hiding the bodies of tortured Ukrainian civilians, responsible for raped children and women. Therefore, they will have to answer for their actions before an international criminal court, and I can safely say that no punishment will be enough for the horrors they have committed. They're not soldiers, they're not people. Seeing the devastation that this horde has done in our neighbourhood, you are not here to strengthen our mutual alliance with NATO, no, you are still in the interests of Moscow. I know that you fight to have no consequences, no NATO expansion, and nothing, because you want Vladimir Putin to do anything without consequences. We know the Russian position, we hear it from you many times here, but we do not ask for interpretation. It is in both Hungary and NATO's interest to protect ourselves from any aggressor who seeks our freedom and our lives, and the more nations that are members of this alliance, the stronger we are. Dear House, Finland and Sweden are not just our allies in the EU. I would remind you that since 2009, yes, in the last eight years, Pope's Strategic Air Transport Ability is a Heavy Air Transport Regiment. In addition to Hungary, Finland and Sweden are part of the programme. In fact, the Gripen fleet was purchased from Sweden at your time, so it is well known, not only politically but also in military terms, the ability of Finland and Sweden. I can only tell you what the shadow government led to Dobrev Klára regularly tells you. Hungary is a NATO member and an EU member, and the questioning, endangering, undermining of our ally loyalty and credibility is a historical sin, betraying Hungarian national interests. Therefore, as a Member of Parliament, as a Hungarian citizen and as a member of Klára Dobrev's shadow government, I consider it my patriotic duty to draw your attention again and again to putting on the agenda the ratification of the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, even in an exceptional procedure, which I have just proposed. Return to the road, turn back from the east to the west, make Hungary the first for you, and not Russia. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the representatives of DK.]]
u2022-10-24-28	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör has the right to reply. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-29	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to begin by saying that security issues are more important than anything else at this time. I would like to remind the House one more thing: in your time, your government has reduced the Hungarian Defence Force to an equally difficult, lively situation. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes, I know, I sold it!]] And you, as Secretary of State, watched this closely. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I know!]] I don't want to talk about your own responsibility. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I sold it!]] Technically, the air force, combat craft capabilities and artillery were shut down. This was the government that began gradually to rebuild the Hungarian defence capabilities. As far as NATO obligations are concerned, we intend to fulfil our commitment to spend 2 percent of GDP-related protection. Compare, please, the ratio when the baton was handed over. As regards the question of NATO accessions, we consider this to be important, Mr Secretary of State has already confirmed this. Why Parliament's agenda is crowded, you know very well. The amendments to the legislation needed to be voted on in order to reach an agreement on EU funds. You know, you're campaigning against EU funds in Brussels. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You don't have to steal and you get the money!]] and they won't vote for it at home. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You don't have to steal!]] amendments to the legislation necessary for this purpose. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You don't have to steal, Mr. Secretary.]] If I can take into account, or bring up, other aspects of Russia's policy, say, energy dependency, then let me ask you who it was who sold MOL, a significant part of the national energy company at the time. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] You. He landed with the Russians. Who privatized energy providers? (Dr. Agnes Vadai: Ti!) They did it in your time. Who privatized the gas storage facilities? It happened in your time. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Lies!]] Who privatised the power plants by providing them with a guaranteed return on assets for a long time after privatisation? [[Crying from the pro-government benches, among them: That's right! Shame!]] If it were up to you, we wouldn't be arguing about what the gas stop looks like and how there's enough gas in the bins, it wouldn't be enough gas. [[Zsolt Gréczy: In our time there was trouble!]] And what you have, you're gonna have to pay a lot more than that. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It wasn't 18 degrees in the schools!]] So in this respect, we are reluctant to accept a lecture from you. Allow me, Congresswoman, to respond to one more thing here. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I'm listening!]] Yesterday, the President of the Democratic Coalition found that the government was unworthy of the spirit of 1956. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right! Zsolt Gréczy: He's right!]] I think it is natural that the various actors of public life interpret the freedom fight, the legacy of 1956, the things to do today, but the fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány speaks of indignity on 23 October, we were not prepared for that. He's got the little charm of saying anything about 1956 from the Little Fork. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Let's take a look at MSZMP membership in the governing parties.]] But perhaps that is not the most important thing, but that if there is someone who stoned the indecency on the anniversary of the revolution, it is the President of DK. With due respect, I remind the House that this is the man who forced the 50th anniversary. Even then, there were those who disagreed with the government at that time. And how far did the tolerance and the ability to audition for that power extend? [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] To batons, horse-crashes, and shot-out eyes, to the point that the responsible ones were even decorated. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Show me one!]] When this unprecedented incident arises from time to time here in this House, you will arrange it in shocking statements by saying that the mob is raging. [[Gergely Harvesto: You made a coup! You were pissing off your own followers! Aren't you ashamed?]] About as the freedom fighters of 56 have been called fascist mobs for decades. Perhaps it is not beside the fact that DK's president became a Communist youth leader when it was clear that the communist regime was in its final days. He even hitched a ride in the red star jersey, when a lot of people risked a lot to make Hungary a democracy. After such antecedents, honourable Member, one thing we ask is that you be careful with the unappreciated adjective. And one more thing. A few days ago, we said good-bye to Mária Wittner, the hero of '56 was recently named a public park in Csepel, and your shadow chancellor is your minister of the shadow chancellor, and there is something that she could say today that Mária Wittner does not deserve to be named public space. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes.]] So you don't think he deserves credit for [[Eszter Debate: Shame on you! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We won't! Eszter Debate: Yes, yes! Dr. Agnes Vadai: No, no!]] who would have given his life for his country as a 56 death sentence? In contrast, Gyula Horn would name the public area very much, and they did so at the XIII. in the district. It's about the man who was a member of the Armed Forces during the war of freedom. So he wouldn't have given his life, he would have taken other people's lives. [[Gergely Arató: If Gyula Horn were alive, you'd be a KIS Secretary too! Intercom from the pro-government benches: Shame on you!]] The Communists would therefore be erected a statue, but the freedom fighters would be denied. For the record, let us hope that many more streets, squares and parks are named about Mary Wittner and the other heroes, and that they will also erect a statue of their memory. In the meantime, we'll quietly conclude that you haven't changed anything, and apparently you won't. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-24-30	It is now up to Mr István Simicskó, Deputy Head of the KDNP faction. Here you go. [[Interview from DK's benches: Go!]]
u2022-10-24-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Sándor Márai used to say that the world is not only bright and dark but also often confusing. Even today, we may remember this idea, so in this troubled world, we need a great ability to see clearly, to be wise enough to judge the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, There has been another war in Europe since February 24. Russia's expectations began with a rapid military victory against Ukraine. Subsequently, the leaders of the European Union in Brussels imposed various sanctions against Russia to punish Russia as aggressor. [[14.20]] They did so with such expectation that Russia would quickly be brought to its knees by the sanctions imposed in Brussels. I have to say that these expectations have not happened on either side, they have not fulfilled the expectations attached to it, because the war is on its 8th month in Ukraine today, suffering the horrors of the Ukrainian people. Due to the sanctions policy, energy prices are skyrocketing, which has led to a significant increase in overhead costs and overhead costs across Europe. The entire population of Europe is experiencing the disastrous consequences of the bad measures taken by the elite in Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it is good to clarify some of the concepts of what the sanction means at a time like this. It is a word of Latin origin: strict provision, punishment, retaliatory measures. A European Union of 4.2 million square kilometres, of which we are part, is punishing a country of over four times the size of Russia with 17 million square kilometres. By the way, I'm saying that Russia is 180 times the size of Hungary and twice the size of the United States. 25 percent of the world's fresh water supply is located in Russia, the world's largest nuclear weapon pool, greater than that of the United States, located in Russia. The world's largest natural gas supply is also located in Russia, so it is not only a military nuclear power but also an energy power. On the other hand, the European Union does not have nearly such resources, so this is always interesting when a smaller one tries to sanction a larger one, obviously there are opportunities for this, and there are areas where this should be done, but this is not the area of energy. The sanctions policy in Brussels has been a complete disaster, and we can safely say so. With sanctions, the European Union is destroying its own nations, and its image is clearly visible, making decisions, making a series of decisions and forcing it on the citizens of European nations in which they have not yet been consulted. This is why we believe it is important that the Hungarian government asks the Hungarian people about the sanctions policy: tell us how Brussels decision-makers see the Brussels elite opinion on this, tell us whether they agree with these sanctions or not. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the initiative of Mayor Károly Szita, who is also the President of the National Association of City Rights in County, who wrote to Ursula von der Leyen in order to rethink this sanctions policy, this misguided policy, because it is in this case that the leaders of cities see and perceive the problem of people, and the maintenance of the institutions of many municipalities can be difficult. This should be changed in Brussels. We see that the government, the Hungarian government, extends the interest rate stop to small and medium-sized enterprises and loans, we see that it extends its credit programme, the credit programme of the Széchenyi Card, and also announces a factory rescue programme. Yes, these are the correct answers, ladies and gentlemen, to such a crisis, but we see that the left is pro-sanctional, and what we can see, fellow Members, is that, for example, in NewBudan, the management of the local government with the DK leadership and a majority of moments has introduced a drastic price increase in kindergarten care, in the case of social institutions, in the care of the elderly and in the area of feeding children. Some have foreseen a 66 percent increase by the opposition-led left-wing government. These drastic increases make it more difficult for people living there and for families to make a living. We want to continue to encourage the government to stand up for the interests of the Hungarian people, consistently and persistently continue to represent the Hungarian position in Brussels and elsewhere. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-24-32	Mr. Balázs Fürjes has the floor.
u2022-10-24-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, What have we always said about war consistently? It is good to recall that, because the left side is distorting this on many occasions. And what have we consistently said about sanctions since summer? Since summer, because there were no sanctions until then, after the outbreak of the war, the prime ministers of the European Union have said that there will be no energy sanctions, and yet they have been introduced. Until the end, the government and, by the way, the Parliament have clearly represented that Russia is an aggressor who violates international law and ignores the sovereignty of an independent country. We condemn that, you should retire, but you must strive for peace, of course, even if you do not. That is what we have always said, and the Parliament adopted a parliamentary resolution on 10 March in the previous government cycle, the first point of which is: we condemn Russia's military intervention and stand for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. After that, of course, the Parliament also stated that Hungary's fundamental aim is to protect the security of people living in peace and its territory. Now let's look at the sanctions. We have always said that the misguided Brussels sanctions policy will only increase the trouble caused by the war. Why? Even in the case of unlawful armed aggression, any sanction only makes sense under two conditions, if the two conditions exist, it is reasonable and useful. First of all, sanctions should have a targeted effect, be able to deter the aggressor, discourage him from war. Also, this is the second condition: sanctions should not cause more damage to the sanctioning than to the sanctioned person. So, what's the deal with this? Brussels sanctions do not stop Putin from war, they do not stop aggression. The war is escalating, but in return, it is causing more damage to Europe than it is to Russia. At a time when the Union wanted to limit gas prices at the EU summit last weekend, it was definitely a funny thing according to economic law; this is a situation where the vulnerable buyer wants to dictate to the dominant seller. That's the question of the dwarf giant, isn't it, Prime Minister? It's like someone goes into the pub with a line in front of the pub, some people don't get in, but the other pub is a long way away, it costs a lot to go there, even more expensive beer, and compared to that, he starts beating the bar to get the bartender to give him the beer cheaper. Then, if the bartender doesn't do that, he can go buy beer somewhere else for a lot of money. It's no coincidence that one of your Idols had an opinion on this, as well as Chancellor Scholz, one of your left-wing Idols. Chancellor Scholz said about sanctions, that the gas cap would pose the danger that producers would rather sell gas to someone else, that there would be less gas to Europe; that President Macron's statement, the Americans, should not be talked about. Compared to this, we take action against sanctions policy and ask people about it. National consultation is an opportunity for all Hungarians to make their voices heard. The institution of the national consultation became part of the Hungarian democratic discourse, which is why it is strange that the left, the left, calling himself democratic, attacks wherever it is. Despite the anti-democratic attacks on the left, we encourage Hungarians to exercise their democratic rights, take part in the national consultation, and listen to their voices in the case of energy sanctions in Brussels that lead to the energy crisis and preciousness. In return, we undertake to the Hungarians: we only represent what the vast majority of Hungarians agree with in the case of energy sanctions. However, we will enforce it through fire and water, and it is time for the democratically elected governments of Europe to curb the bureaucracy in Brussels, which organises a rampage without a democratic mandate. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-24-34	The last item before today's agenda will be on Fidesz's part. I give the word to John the Fisherman.
u2022-10-24-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the last 32 years, there has been no example of what the Hungarian left has done in the 2022 election campaign. [[14.30]] The joint candidate for Prime Minister of the Left admitted that he had received hundreds of millions of dollars from America for the campaign. Since then, of course, we know that this hundreds of millions of forints are actually at least two billion, and the money came to the dollar left from one of George Soros's organizations, Action for Democracy. Of course, the scandal itself didn't start without warning. As early as 2019, the mysterious American money gathered behind the left campaign, and Marki-Zay himself referred to it earlier. In 2019 he reported on an American trip where he met Soros organizations and openly raised money for the campaign, his political construction. He also reported on the U.S. fundraising tour in videos. Later, in March 2022, in the middle of the campaign, Márki-Zay himself said that he had made an alliance with the Soros' American campaign team, Action for Democracy. This is the recently created group of Soros people, and its director is Dávid Korányi, who is Gergely Christmas's chief advisor. The aim of the organization was to influence the Hungarian elections. For this reason, they also launched their campaign called the "Hungarian Spring" for this purpose; the head of the organization openly admitted in a statement that the Hungarian election inspired the formation of Action for Democracy, and stressed that they were trying to strengthen democratic forces in the elections of the Battlefield States, including Hungary. Dávid Korányi, who lives in New York, was also former Chief Advisor to Gordon Bajnai and then Secretary of State for Foreign and Security Policy. In view of this, it is not surprising that the dollars referred to the left largely to the company of Gordon Bajnai, the organizer of the opposition campaign Datata. The Data Data that's being investigated for suspicion of fiscal fraud. At the company group of Bajnai Gordon and his former secretary, Ádám Ficsor, the NAV conducted a search on 27 September. According to the Authority's statement, DataAdat did not operate in violation of the legal requirements at its registered office in Ádám Ficsor's apartment, and even the company's managers refused to tell the company's actual location on the phone, and the documents could not be viewed by the official accountant of DataData either, because there was no accounting office at the given address. Finally, a significant proportion of the necessary documents were seized from the unnotified office of the accounting self-employed detectives from the NAV communication. According to press information, the office not reported by DataAdat is located in Szegi, a small village in the area of Tokaj, where the investigators have also conducted a search. So far, it is a mystery how and why DataAdat Professional Kft. could be avoided. His papers are in Borsod. Dear House, Since the change of regime, there has been no attempt by foreign individuals or companies to gain influence in parliamentary elections with open campaign support. This is strictly forbidden in Hungary. The Act on the Functioning of the Parties clearly states that parties cannot accept subsidies from abroad today. It's a scandal that the left has crossed this red line and accepted the dollars that rolled into it. This case is extremely serious, unprecedented in the history of Hungary. The National Bureau of Investigation and the NAV have already begun their investigation. Foreign financing of left-wing parties could also seriously jeopardise Hungary's national sovereignty. Therefore, national security services have a key role to play in identifying the case and addressing the risks. The National Security Committee also put the issue on the agenda during the first session. This week, on Thursday, October 27th, we also request detailed information from the services. We cannot allow them to intervene in democratic Hungarian elections from abroad. We must protect our national sovereignty. The Fidesz fraction is determined to find out what's going on. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-36	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Répássy Róbert, please.
u2022-10-24-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Indeed, over the past thirty years there has been consensus among Hungarian parliamentary parties that financial support cannot be accepted from abroad to the elections; this is included in all our laws, party law or campaign funding laws, as well as electoral laws. So it is a requirement that foreign support and foreign financial support should not be included in the election campaign in Hungary, so that Hungarian elections cannot be influenced. As I said, for more or less thirty years, the Hungarian left has observed this, but what has happened has changed not only a political consensus, but, as you have said, it could be illegal financial operations, so it is justified that both the parliamentary committee and the investigating authorities have started to investigate in this. I think it is in the interests of all of us to find out the truth about this matter, to find out where this nearly HUF 2 billion has gone, how it has affected the elections, and how the parties who have benefited from it have used it, the political people and political organisations who have benefited. So I believe that if such a fact-finding took place in the Parliamentary Committee, then perhaps this could be supported by all parties. I do not think that either of us can allow this to happen again and, of course, the details of this case must also be examined. Dear House, I believe that it is necessary to consider strengthening the rules on campaign funding in order to strengthen the rules that parties cannot accept funds directly from abroad, or indirectly, in this way, as has been the case here. Therefore, it should be considered to draw the lessons from this and to establish appropriate legislation to prevent foreign campaign funding. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-38	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the comments before the agenda announced by the factions. I would like to inform this House that the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon has also asked for an opportunity to speak before the agenda, which I will allow him to speak with my fellow Members on the House Committee. So I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who speaks the first few sentences of his speech in his native language, and then translates it into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-39	[[???Köszönöm a szót, elnök úr. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Уважаеми господин Държавен секретар! Позволете ми да ви поздравя от името на българите в Унгария и от моето име по случай деня на българо-унгарското приятелство.???]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Bulgarians in Hungary and as a Bulgarian ethnic advocate on the occasion of the Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship day. October 19th is of paramount importance in Bulgaria's holiday calendar and now in Hungary. This is the day of St. John's Day of Csodádévő Rila, the saint of the Orthodox Church and the patron saint of Bulgaria. The saint is also regarded as a miracle worker in Hungary, and his relic also proved his supernatural power in the Basilica of Esztergom III. During the reign of our King Bela. His memory is now guarded by a bilingual plaque in the subchurch. Since October 19, 2017, an equally bilingual memorial plaque has been proclaiming Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship in Bulgaria, the oldest church in the Sofia capital. For the first time in both countries this year, friendship day was celebrated by pilgrimage, prayer, and placing flowers in front of the memorial plaques. Esztergom was pilgrimed by the kindergartens of the Hungarian Bulgarian Bilingual Kindergarten. In Sofia, the capital of Bulgaria, he saluted the pilgrimage of the Bulgarian community in Hungary and celebrated a theatre performance where our Jantra and Roszica folk dance groups performed in front of a full house. After the difficult period caused by the pandemic and the cancelled events, we were finally able to remember and celebrate together the 19th October adopted and declared by the unanimous decision of the National Assembly of Bulgaria and the National Assembly of Hungary, the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. It is a special pleasure for the Bulgarians in Hungary that this year, with the representation of Bulgarian nationality and the governments of the two countries, the construction work of the new Bulgarian educational and cultural centre began on 3 March. in the district of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, opposite the Bulgarian Cultural House. [[14.40]] With this construction, the dream of the founders of the more than 100-year-old Association of Bulgarians in Hungary can come true, the three pillars defining the existence and life of our nationalities: church, cultural house and school, like a Trinity, like a small Bulgaria. We always had to build in challenging times. This was the case when we built our church in the 1930s and our cultural house in the 1950s. This is the case now, but we are convinced that by the end of 2024 we are expected to have a new building, which will be the largest educational and cultural centre in Central Europe, which we plan to open with a conference bringing together Bulgarians across borders. It has been proven that Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship is worth a special day. The Bulgarian nationality in Hungary plays a bridge role in the cooperation of the two countries in almost all areas. It is a bridge, with which both states and soon the Bulgarians across the border can connect closely, expressing our solidarity and our loyalty to Hungary. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As a Bulgarian ethnic advocate, I am honored to be able to speak before the National Assembly on the occasion of the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. Allow me to express my thanks to the Government of Hungary, the National Assembly, to ensure the traditions-creating efforts of the Bulgarian community in Hungary by providing national minority resources and individual grants. I would like to thank the Minister of State for Church and Ethnic Relations of the Prime Minister's Office, its staff and the Ambassador and colleagues of Bulgaria in Hungary for celebrating the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship in both countries this year, 19 October. Finally, allow me to quote the teaching of St. John Rilai, a miracle worker, which, to this day, is the compass of Bulgarian nationality, how we should remain who we are: brotherly love, do not forget the alien love, for by him, some have entertained angels without knowing it. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-24-40	State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Speaker, Nationalities in Hungary have come from different places in our history, from different times in our history, with different cultures and religious denominations in our country. Regardless of all of this, regardless of the differences, the nation has been strengthened over the past centuries and now, the image, architecture of the settlements, agriculture, religion and culture are still having a great impact. This is also the case with the lives of the Bulgarians in Hungary, because more than a hundred years ago, the large crowd that settled in Hungary arrived and continue to maintain their culture, language and communities. Their diligence, their knowledge, is most common in agriculture. Their cooperation was also shown during the most difficult times, such as during the First World War or the subsequent period, when they built their temples, built their schools, or founded them; and many times from public relations. Just as the cultural or cultural house was built from public relations in the 1950s, in the most difficult cancerist years, and this was done by the Bulgarian community, and in the last decade, besides numerous ethnic projects, besides renovations, the Bulgarian community has also become rich and developed. Unlike the governments on the left, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, we joined forces with the nationalities. We worked together to make sure that all that they have done to this country in cultural, architecture and other areas, we thank them with respect and renovate their buildings and strengthen their communities. Thus, the Bulgarian community has been able to renew its cultural house in recent years, to renew its church in Budapest, even if Klára Dobrev, who calls himself Bulgarian, criticized it [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh, well, that's how I get a lottery number five. Shame on you! Eszter Vitalos: You should be ashamed of yourselves. Noise in DK's ranks.]] And you could start building the Bulgarian educational and cultural center with the real estate exchange on Bajza Street. Their national and local authorities organise community education and cultural programmes and are present in other areas that definitely strengthen Bulgarian presence. These included Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship day. From 2016 until October-19, we will celebrate the celebration of St. John Rila, one year in Hungary and the next year in Bulgaria. Now in Sofia, as you mentioned, Jantra and the Roszica adult and children's dance ensemble held a very successful presentation. We remembered this day with engraving, just like the children in Esztergom. We could negotiate with secular and ecclesiastical leaders for the benefit of the Bulgarian community, but also for the benefit of the two nations. And if I can sum up the importance of the negotiations, then on one side, peace-building, peace-keeping and the preservation of Christian values may have been the focus, but it was certainly a prominent negotiation with Mrs Iliana Iotova, who is Bulgaria's left-wing vice president and who serves the country where she lives in a fully and completely understandable way. So he was upset about that decision in Brussels for a reason... after the Schengen decision again negatively affected their country, he also had a negative impact on Romania. He stood up for the country, not as the left is now doing in Brussels against the nation. They could also learn from this woman, who dares to stand up as a leftist, to initiate a cooperation between right-wing and left-wing parties within the country, so that they can serve the nation locally. All of this, led by Klára Dobrev as a leftist, is done in the opposite way. There's a lot to learn. Dear Parliament, The Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship day is important, we can learn a lot from each other, we can share a lot of things. We may have debates at home, but we should work together abroad, for example, in Brussels, as other nations do. By the way, Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship is appreciated now [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit. Zoltán Vajda and Sándor Szabó applaud.]] cooperation between nations, too. Thank you. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-24-42	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-10-24-43	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; László Horváth, Fidesz. Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; András Jámbor, Imre, Dialogue; Ferenc Varga, Jobbik; Anna Orosz, Momentum; Imre Komáthi, MSZP; Zoltán Komáromi, DK; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; Attila Stojka, Fidesz. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Sas, Jobbik. Róbert Dudás, Jobbik, Péter Balassa, Jobbik applied for the speech after the agenda on Wednesday. On Thursday, Attila Stojka, Fidesz, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik, János Bencze, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2022-10-24-44	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I declare that the MSZP Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/518-2/2022. President's decision. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] In accordance with Article 15 of the Treaty, I refused, given that this was not the case under Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/518-2/2022. President's decision. Please vote by raising your hands. (Vote.) I declare that the visible majority of the Parliament has maintained the decision of the Speaker of the House. [[14.50]] I declare that Mr Bertalan Tóth has initiated a repetition of the vote using a voting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain in its scope the President's decision cited above. Please vote with a ballot counting machine. Now give me the votes. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has maintained the Speaker's decision by 118 votes in favour, 41 votes against and no abstentions. I declare that the DK Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15 of the Decision. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that this is not the case under Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes, you can.]] In accordance with Article 15 of the Treaty, I refused, given that this was not the case under Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. (Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes, you can!) The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/522-2/2022. President's decision. I ask the technical staff to allow machine voting, we will save, if you will allow, the manual vote, because Ferenc Gyurcsány initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: Where is it?]] So I respectfully ask the House to maintain the aforementioned presidential decision. [[Ágnes Vadai: If you have a request to meet Ferenc Gyurcsány, come to our event, you are welcome!]] Please vote. [[Vote. Eszter Vitályos: Do you have an event?]] I find that the House has retained the Speaker's decision by 118 votes in favour, 38 votes against and three abstentions. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the Parliament's agenda proposal for the meeting of 24-27 October and 2 November 2022 should be amended as such at the 2025 Osaka World Exhibition [[Dr. Ágens Vadai: That's so important!]] T/1611 on provisions relating to the successful implementation of Hungarian appearance The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 202 shall take place on Thursday 27 October 2022 as the last item on the agenda until its closure, instead of Wednesday 26 October 2022. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The resolution house rule is 86. § 4 pursuant to Rule 37 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure The Commission shall discuss the application of §2 in a time-frame. On this basis, I am initiating a V/1550 on the future of our children, the quality and conditionality of public education. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2022-10-24-45	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 23 minutes for the DK Group, 18 minutes for the MSZP Group, 18 minutes for the Momentum Group, 17 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 14 minutes for the Dialogue Group, 14 minutes for the Group of Hungary, 13 minutes for the Group of the LMP and 3 minutes for the Independent and Nationality Group. The time limits provided for the factions include the 10-10 minutes lead speakers.
u2022-10-24-46	Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. So I ask the Honourable Parliament, and he agrees that the proposal will be discussed within a four-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the proposal was adopted by 120 votes in favour, 40 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to ask B/1348, which was submitted on behalf of the State, on the operation of the organisations exercising ownership rights in 2020, on the development of the stock of state assets, on the processes of government wealth management. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has asked the designated committee to take its decision by 120 votes in favour, 40 votes against and no abstentions. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I am ordering a two-minute technical break, and I am handing over the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. (Sunning: 14.55 14.59) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-10-24-47	Welcome, fellow Members. We'll get back to work. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to declarations of assets relating to the control of the use of EU budget resources and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal now follow. The government referral T/1311. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, followed by a presentation of the formulated minority opinion. The rapporteur for the committee is Mrs Elias Boglarka, to whom I give the floor. Your time frame is eight minutes. Congresswoman, please.
u2022-10-24-48	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 20 October 2022 T/1311 on the amendment of certain laws relating to declarations of assets relating to the control of the use of EU budget resources. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 27 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 9 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past few months, we have come to the end of a multi-month conciliation process between the Government of Hungary and the European Commission, all within the framework of the so-called conditionality procedure, the conditioning mechanism. [[15.00]] We can now say that these negotiations have been successful. They were successful, since the Commission found that the proposals submitted by the government would adequately address the concerns that led to the launch of the conditionality procedure. This will open the gates in which we can put an end to the negotiations on the reconstruction fund and cohesion resources. This can create the opportunity that we all think is important, and we all have to consider it important, including the further development of health care and the rightful wage increase for teachers, so the arrival of the rightful resources for Hungarian people. The Government has already put forward a number of proposals for an agreement to this House, and this line includes the proposal that we are discussing now. The proposal before us amends the rules of procedure with regard to those obliged to make declarations of assets in accordance with the rules agreed by the Government with the European Commission. Thus, in the case of public officials who make declarations of assets under the rules applicable to Members of Parliament, their family members will also be obliged to make declarations of assets again. In addition, the obligation to notify changes is replaced by the obligation to make annual declarations of assets and final declarations of assets. The Legislative Committee's amendment also contains substantive and technical amendments. Dear House, Although we wanted to share the burden on the shoulders of Members of the European Parliament on the basis of the declaration of European Parliament's wealth created on the German sample, I support the return to stricter domestic legislation and the responsibility of citizens. At the same time, I suggest that the Hungarian example be considered in other European model states, even in this area. I would also ask you to vote in favour of this proposal and to contribute, through this, to the swiftest possible agreement with the European Commission, the best you can and can now do so. Because of my responsibility to the Hungarian people, I will do so. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-49	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The minority opinion of the committee, which has a seven-minute timeframe, will be presented by Congressman Gergely Arató. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-50	Dear House, Unfortunately, I cannot share the position of the majority of the Member and the majority of the committee, nor have the opposition representatives of the committee been able to share it. When we reviewed the bill, what amendments the government had adopted, what it had proposed to incorporate, and what deeply respected majority of the committee had proposed to include, we saw that the fundamental problems that were in this bill had not been remedied either by the majority of the national or the legislative committee. It is worth returning to the background of this bill for a moment. In July, it was in the summer that you, after the election, thought that the minimum control that the previous asset declaration system had meant over your enrichment, could not bear it, and suggested that a declaration of income with very little content should replace the previous asset declaration system. By the way, the wealth declaration system was not perfect before, it could have been tightened up, it could have been subject to stricter control, more transparency, but you did not move in this direction, but in the opposite direction. You said that this European model, it's gonna be really good, and then it turns out, not in the whole six months, that it's not gonna happen. On the contrary, everyone in Europe understands exactly what you do and how you do it. And of course, there can be reference to German and European Parliament practice, only the case, honourable Members, is that, let us say, in Germany, there is no example of what has happened here, that today the prosecution has asked for eight years for a former State Secretary for corruption. In the country where this can happen and happens, and I fear that there is more than one reason to take strict action against corruption crimes, it is certainly justified to maintain a stricter regime of declaration of assets. After all, you have come to the point that perhaps the former regime was a little better, and you said it was okay that if the European Union so badly wanted it, then we will return to the former declaration of assets. But as usual, this time they weren't telling the truth. Because they do not return to the former declaration of property, but they have left me, I would say, a loophole, but it is not a loophole, but a great gate, a doorway, saying that yes, but residential property, the real estate does not count, while we all remember that, for example, these were comparable and verifiable data relating to apartments or residential properties, which were the most meaningful in the asset statement system. I must say, therefore, that you continue to trick, continue to trick, continue to try to avoid the fact that you account for your growth, account for your wealth, so that voters can learn what and how they buy. I'll add another point. For the sake of safety, one more thing is settled in this bill, and it is also included in the legislative committee's amendments, in which they settle that ministers and state ministers, state leaders, can keep their jobs in trust foundations, with their otherwise well-upped salary, which are the ones to which the state money was delivered with a dumper, also with a million-dollar salary. I must say to you that this bill is clearly, although it is better than the previous declaration of assets system, but it does not serve transparency in this form, anti-corruption, it does not meet the minimum requirements in this respect. That is why, among the opposition members of the Legislative Committee, DK representatives voted against and 9 additional Members voted with abstention on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard in Parliament today that you are accusing opposition parties of patriotism because we are not content with fakes, we are not satisfied with some kind of artwork when it comes to the rule of law and the fight against corruption. We say that Hungarian citizens are interested in giving EU funds to Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian economy, local governments and civil society organisations, and they are not interested in spending this money on their own, on their own, to enrich their friends, relatives and business partners. But you know what, it's in the common interest that these resources are available. Now here's an excellent point to show you that this is really important to you. Give up on the fact that you can't see your assets, give up your seat in the bodies of these economic or trust foundations for good money, make a little personal sacrifice for transparency and make these resources truly available, so that you can really believe that you want to take action against transparency and corruption. [[15.10]] And if they do so, because this bill will have an opposition amendment, which would substantially move forward in this direction, if they do so and vote in favour of this amendment, then I believe that you really want to fight corruption and really want to create the conditions for these EU funds to be available. But as long as they are still trying to avoid the rule of law and transparency for their own good, don't tell us about patriotism. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-10-24-51	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, Mr Deputy Minister, if you would like to speak now. [[Dr. Répássy Robert nodds.]] I'd like to say an expo. If so, you must be informed, Mr Secretary of State, that the time frame is a total of 15 minutes, but as much as you will use in your speech, the closing word will be so much shorter. Thank you very much. You have the floor, please.
u2022-10-24-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, T/1311 amending the laws relating to certain declarations of assets relating to the control of the use of EU budget resources In relation to the legislative proposal No.3 the bill was accompanied, after its submission, mostly by legislative and codification amendments. In the text of the bill, the wording of the transitional rules on the obligation to declare property of certain public-law dignitaries has been harmonised in order to facilitate uniform regulation and clear interpretation of the law. The bill is CXXV of 2018 on government administration. In addition to the amendment part of Act IX of 2021 on public-service trust foundations, the provision for clarification was added to the amendment part of Act IX. legislation that is currently coming from law, also facilitating a clear application of law. It should be pointed out that the Act on Parliament will be amended to allow public-law dignitaries who make declarations of property according to the rules of the Act on Parliament to be made available to anyone online free of charge from 31 March 2023 on or after 1 August 2022. The content of the declaration of property, income and economic interest, which is regulated as an annex to the bill, has been amended in certain places. It should be pointed out, in principle, that the content of the declaration was tightened in comparison with the proposal submitted, contrary to opposition claims. To a large extent, the amendments are intended to facilitate clear completion and further explanatory footnotes have been included in the declaration, in addition to the footnotes already known. In order to indicate real estate, it is necessary to indicate agricultural real estate at district level, in order to eliminate previously identified difficulties in the application of the law. Real estate situated in the same district and in the same area of cultivation and having the same status of declaration shall be shown in the same row of the table, aggregated in order of magnitude. In the case of shared ownership, it is also necessary to indicate the share of ownership. Part A, Part II. It has been clarified in the Tangibles section that large-value movable property is subject to the obligation to indicate the whole point. As a new element, the statement shows that if the declaration provides data in foreign currency, i.e. not forints, then in its declaration the currency value of the amount is also required on the official exchange rate of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, indicating the exchange rate used. It has been clarified that CXXX of 2016 on civil procedure is the concept of an economic entity covered by the declaration. It is necessary to understand the definition of law, so that the concept also covers public-interest trust foundations in substance. Finally, there was also a change in the part of the declaration concerning the indication of economic interests, as, in addition to membership in an organisation or body established by law, it is necessary to declare the membership of a party or an honorary member, so that the content of part D of the declaration was incorporated into part C. Dear House, In these, I wanted to present the amendments that will be voted on today and which will eventually be incorporated into the law if the bill is adopted. I ask with respect for your support for the proposal.
u2022-10-24-53	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you and this House that you will have a total time frame of 10 minutes and 40 seconds to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. You can see the timeframes on the billboard, the time available will also be continuously followed on the board, on the billboard. I would like to address Mr. President Novák, representative of our country, who has applied in writing. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, That my amendment was not supported, although it was only a technical amendment proposal, it is not entirely reasonable, it does not surprise us, as we have seen that our spelling amendment proposals have been rejected before and all other amendments in this cycle, as unfortunately, so much on the national cooperation system. However, it hurts more than that the hypocritical system of declaration of assets covering corruption was first replaced in July by an even less transparent one, the EU declaration system, and now the snapping of the Union [[He snaps his fingers.]] They're basically bringing back the old proposal right away. As far as the summer amendment currently in force is concerned, the removal of the obligation of family members to make declarations of property is particularly painful and unacceptable, although it should be added that, in vain, it will continue to be kept secret in the Parliament's safe. In recent weeks, I have referred to the immunity committee to the question that they have been able to give an example that that safe has ever been opened in the course of a declaration of assets procedure, and, indeed, they have not been able to give a single example; there has been no such thing since human memory that what is supposed to be examined could actually have been investigated by anyone. So, in Hungarian, the property declaration of close relatives living in a community of property is submitted to Parliament by encrypting it in the safe of the National Assembly, not even when it should have been examined, because it could have been found in the last decades when they abused it, right, and it was found out; various properties were written in the name of a minor child, and an outstanding amount of property was usually landed on his name, while the Members were poor as the mice of the church were officially, according to the property declaration. And then this rather hypocritical system of declaration of property has been modified so that, according to the current legislation, no precise amount should be included in the current declaration of assets, only a margin of income, no declaration of income, loans, debts, real estate, large-value movable property, savings. Well, can this be called a property statement where you don't have to talk about real estate, property, savings? ! It's absolutely amazing how they play with words, and how they lie to a declaration of assets that isn't at all. And then it's just foam on the cake that the whole system is playing directly into the lack of clarity. Even though I have repeatedly said that it is unacceptable that it is not searchable, for example, that it is not even published as a character-recognized PDF, which was already published on the National Assembly's website decades ago, all of it is published with character recognition, including every proposal submitted on a paper basis. The electronic filling system also works by electronically filling it in, then printing it, signing it, and scanning it, so it's ridiculous, it's ridiculous! I don't know what century they live in. It is not the lack of technical competence, but rather the deliberate attitude of not looking for it, of not comparing it, of not being able to examine the increase in the wealth of Members of Parliament. In the summer, my amendment, which I would have made public to Members of Parliament in a common household and community of property, was voted down, so I have now submitted as a separate bill that it is expected that it will not come here again, but at least one commission, because I think it is necessary to address this in order to reduce political crime; if, for you, it seems to you, it is important recently to Brussels, if they hold back the money with reference to their corruption, then accept these proposals from the Hungarian Movement and put this proposal on the agenda, for example, as well as that any other nationality of Members of Parliament should be made public. [[15.20]] I have also tabled a separate bill for this now, after my amendment proposal has otherwise been rejected in connection with the declaration of assets. However, as it is now necessary to state the names of the relatives, or to declare school education, language skills, I think that citizenship should be particularly important. It is also a risk to national security that at present they may conceal the possible other constraints of a particular Member or who has built a sort of escape route for himself. We remember the former secretary of state, the vice president of the MSZP, Gábor Simon, who hid the passport of an African banana republic in his safe. So not only did they find an account of 240 million in Vienna and then tens of millions of forints in his safe, without any proof of authenticity and, of course, forgotten from his declaration of property, but also a passport. And this is talkative; if a man had built such an escape route, then there might be a reason, perhaps an investigation would have been needed there. And if it is possible to do it more strictly than we do in Israel, not only to the public, but also to abolish the Member's mandate or the other's nationality in the event of duality, then I think that in Hungary it is the minimum and this is an almost unsatisfyingly moderate proposal even for me, but then let this compromise that I have tabled be compulsory to declare and let us see clearly at last. Péter Márki-Zay was also revealed to his constituents only after his election as Prime Minister candidate that he also had the nationality of another country. It came up here, didn't it, Szabó Timea's CIA agency, and the last time he called Márton Gyöngyösi, the last one of Jobbik's '56s, Márton Murányi Levente Gyöngyösi, CIA agent. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Many have raised this suspicion, which should finally be clarified, so stop hiding it, and stop encrypting it about possible dual citizenship. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-24-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. Just a little clarification for the record: when you mentioned, Member, that the Parliament did not accept it during the summer, that is the end of the spring session. Thank you very much. [[The First of Novak: That's right.]] That's what you meant by summer, isn't it? [[Foreman Novak: The extraordinary session.]] The extraordinary session. Thank you very much. [[Foreman Novak: Thank you.]] The next speaker from the LMP group is Lóránt Keresztes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-56	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, You know, what we are discussing here is that, because of the historical level of corruption, you have put the EU's money that belongs to Hungarian people at risk. I was a little surprised by Mrs Boglárka Illés when she spoke about the fact that they were going through a multi-month conciliation process when, just in July, three months ago, the majority of you adopted the law that abolished the system of declarations in Hungary. Then, in some way, in the course of the negotiations, you have received a signal or, I don't know, we don't see these negotiations, at the end of September, you have tabled a proposal which would partially undo this system. We've heard about the important differences, haven't we? But we are talking about anti-corruption measures. In this debate with Secretary of State Répássy, I set an example of the high levels of corruption in your government. This, of course, has reached the highest levels, since the Deputy Minister of Justice is also involved in the case. It has already been mentioned, it has just been found today that the Central Investigator's Attorney General has filed an indictment of corruption and money laundering offences and money laundering in the case of György Schadl and 21 of his associates, including Pál Völner, former Secretary of State for Justice, the predecessor of the State Secretary. Then, in this debate, Mr Secretary of State, when I said what the State Secretary was accusing him of; then, Mr State Secretary, you said that you cannot bear the fact that this particular person, György Schadl, could still be president of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court. I too strongly expressed my view that it is a very serious legislative, legislative failure that he cannot be removed from this position, and then you referred to it, Mr Secretary of State, that if we were to take steps to remove such a serious accused person from this important position, it would obviously be an important step. I have a question to the Secretary of State: I have tabled the proposal that has been drafted in the press as a bill by lex Schadl, which is about the fact that in such cases the President of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court will be treated in the same way as the executives. If you accept this bill, György Schadl must be removed from this important position immediately. My question to the Secretary of State is that if you no longer had time to submit such a legislative amendment proposal, then the government will support and support this lex Schadl proposal by the Fidesz-KDNP faction, giving you the opportunity to remove from this important position the person for whom the prosecutor's office has asked for ten years today. I would add that Paul Völner was asked for eight years, not only is Pál Völner out there, but he still has the right to practice as a lawyer. I think it's also a very serious symptom, a very serious problem. Moving on to the system of declarations of assets. When you argued in the debate in July that you had taken international examples, we made it clear that this is the issue in which we should not take bad international samples, because the pattern you refer to in the European Parliament's practice is not a declaration of assets, but a declaration of interest. In the spirit of this, you have abolished the system of declarations of property and are now trying to bring it back. This is completely incomprehensible, and this also shows that they have time to play with these proposals until the legislation has been changed, so György Schadl can still be president of the Faculty of Executives of the Court. Indeed, this is not the situation that you are restoring, otherwise in itself the inadequate situation that has been done before, because there have been several conditions here that do not restore the original state. For example, it has also been mentioned that, as regards housing and housing, you do not consider it important to complete a wealth return or to exempt trustees from conflicts of interest in the area of conflicts of interest. It's amazing and unacceptable, I think. In order to understand the law now to be adopted by Parliament, we have also tabled an amendment. In recent years, every year, we have tabled a comprehensive proposal to put the system of declarations of assets on a completely new basis, and in parallel, here I refer back to the legitimate suggestion of Mr President Novák, which we voluntarily published on behalf of our family members. Well, that would also be mandatory in our amendment proposal. Further, we consider it necessary that declarations should always be subject to control, so, once submitted by a Member, immediately the State Audit Office of the State examines the accuracy, completeness and, in terms of wealth growth, there is a sign that something has not happened legally here, taking into account the income situation of that Member or the declaration of assets. We consider it important to have searchable databases. And we also consider it very important, by adopting the new law, that there should be consequences for lying to Hungarian people, there should be consequences if someone cheats in their declaration of assets, because in the current system and in your proposal there is no consequence of this. We consider it important to have an accurate sum. This is also included in our proposal. We would also like you to present the property rights to the Hungarian people, in addition to the property. The state or municipal assets provided for the use of the company in its interest, as well as the free benefits, budgetary or EU subsidies, must also be presented according to our belief. And in the case of high-value assets, the limit of five million would be reduced to one million, so that assets worth more than one million would also have to be published. I very much hope that the sentence of Mrs Boglárka Illés, who proposes that we return to a strict Hungarian regulation, will include the inclusion of this important information, and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction will vote for our proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-24-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, the doyen of the House. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-24-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor to make the following point: the negotiations between the European Union and the Hungarian Government, Hungary, are conducted in two respects according to the will of the government and the will of the parliamentary majority. One is clear that only Hungary's interests and primary interests can prevail during the hearing. It has not moved past that and the government cannot go beyond that; obviously, it must remain within these limits. On the other hand, and this is a fundamental issue, these negotiations should not prejudice Hungary's sovereignty. They both did. On this point, however, we should stress: it is incomprehensible to me, even after long and long decades, why the opposition follows the unfortunate position that it believes that anything that might be unpleasant to the government, not good, bad may be good for them. [[15.30]] It's never gonna work out. History has shown many times that the political forces that are playing this kind of game always lose; it is clear, because it is also clear what the country's interest in this issue is. The legislative proposals that have come here, and which are now before us, do not violate the interests of Hungary, do not violate our sovereignty, but clearly serve the agreement that Hungary needs, as all Hungarian citizens need, and so do its opponents. Opposition citizens must enforce their will in the same interests as they do on the pro-government side. Dear House, It should be pointed out that the small questions that are now being raised around, for example, the assets of your representatives, are quite incomprehensible to me. There is no distortion in this, no change that would be unpleasant to either the country or the Members. It is clear that I am convinced that these declarations do not primarily serve the purpose of curbing corruption. No! These are primarily intended to give the Members a clear and clear picture, to be as clear as possible in front of the country and in front of its voters. So in this form, I do not perceive any change in this form that would have meant any retreat in relation to a previous bill, both of which would have served this interest and purpose, and the application undoubtedly depends on many things. Dear House, I think it would be time for the opposition to reconsider its own position, and in the coming time within the European Union, I must say that those very, very bad-tasting speeches, speeches that are trying specifically to hinder the conclusion of an agreement, I believe that they must stay. It must be completed; I am also convinced that the kind of destructive behaviour that is worth everything that is good for this country should be opposed, because it may be beneficial. Once again, I would like to say that the benefit of this position is never to the opposition, but in particular to Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-60	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I have listened to your comments with great respect and interest, and there is a lot of things that I agree with you, but you have not revealed to me: the fact that Members can hide their property from voters or that government politicians can sit in the Curatorium of Trust Foundations for millions of HUF, how it promotes national interest, or why it is important for us to defend national sovereignty. It could have been that the government could have chosen the path if it really thought it important that something should happen here in order to have a good chance of obtaining EU funds and, of course, to reduce corruption, to talk to civil society organisations and to speak to opposition representatives and opposition parties. Unfortunately, that's not what happened, and I can tell you that the responsibility for this is not for us, but for the government side.
u2022-10-24-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I now ask the Deputy Minister, Mr State Secretary, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Mr Secretary of State, you have a timeframe of 10 minutes and 40 seconds. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-62	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, I would just like to respond briefly to what has been said, because basically, these debates have already been carried out, so there is too much new that we have not been able to say to each other. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in a year's time, the asset declaration system will indeed be adopted in a third version. A year ago, to be more precise, six months ago, we filled out a declaration of assets that, for a long time, was at the crossroads of the European Commission and the European Parliament, and we have constantly heard that they do not meet the requirements of transparency. Then the Parliament decided to introduce the declaration of assets of Members of the European Parliament in order to meet the expectations of the European Parliament and the European Commission. It turns out that the European Commission is applying double standards to Hungary, as always. It turned out that, on the basis of the double standard, the declaration of assets that MEPs and, by the way, Germany's Members of Parliament have applied has not been accepted. At that time, the government proposed that a new declaration of assets be completed in accordance with the previous Hungarian declaration of assets and the rules on conflicts of interest and asset declarations of the Members of the European Commission. So what you are now seeing in front of this House is a statement to the European Commissioners, that is, to the Members of the European Commission, in accordance with the rules of conflict of interest and financial interests, in order to see if this will comply with the European Commission, in case the Hungarian politicians fill out a declaration of wealth that they are filling out in Brussels and see if this is acceptable. I think that we have gone about to the wall on this issue, so I think that if more is expected of Hungary, we will no longer have to accept it, because we do not have to meet expectations that do not even apply to the voice of criticisms against us. With regard to the other issues raised here, of course, the property declaration system has much to do with corruption and the fight against corruption. I myself believe that the declaration of assets system, the declaration of assets, is one of the means to combat corruption, but unfortunately, in recent years we have seen that the declarations of assets, whatever the system of declaration of assets, will not prevent people from concealing incomes, concealing assets, since the declaration of assets can only show what taxes on property are publishing on the basis of self-certification. This can be verified in different ways, primarily through public disclosure and, secondly, through public records. Otherwise, the bill gives us a future solution to this, so it would be best for everyone who makes a declaration of assets if this declaration of assets were to be an audited declaration of assets, so there can be no discussion that the declaration of assets is real or not. So I think it's an important step, and the Parliament will probably do that. Honourable Congressman, I do not want to answer your question about the President of the Executive Board in this debate, because this is not the subject of this debate, but you have also asked us a written question, and I know that your bill will be discussed by the Committee on Justice, so the answers will be given there. Thank you very much, Mr President, for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-63	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Next up is XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment of the Act to the extension of the emergency situation. Presentation by our colleagues Máté Kocsis, István Simicskó, Mónika Dunai, Illés Boglárka, Károly Kontra, Lajos Kósa and Lőrinc Nacsa T/1308. This House's IT network is accessible to all of us. [[15.40]] I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Boglarka, that she wishes to speak. [[Buttercup Elijah says no.]] He doesn't want to. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that the closing hours will therefore have a 15-minute time frame at your disposal. With all due respect, I'd like to ask the government representative if you'd like to speak. [[Tamás Vargha says no.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I respectfully inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you will then have a 15-minute window of time during the speeches in the debate, because only the rapporteur can give you the closing words. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated National Defence and Police Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members' speeches, in the time frame on the agenda, which has already been published on the billboard, to follow how much time is still available in their speech. I would also like to inform my fellow Members that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask my fellow Members who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] First, I would like to address Mr President Novák of the Group of Our Country, who has applied for a written speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is not a simple proposal for an amendment by my opposition colleague Szabó Szabolcs, but I must do so, because the Mi Hazank Movement has promised not to look at who is proposing something, but when we agree with it. I myself have repeatedly objected to the fact that the right to turn to the Constitutional Court has essentially been abolished in the case of the Hungarian people, so I think that a minimum compromise is that, at least in the event of an emergency, the Members of Parliament can do so, as we are currently unable to turn to the Constitutional Court as Members of Parliament. In order for the Constitutional Court to decide on this within three days in the event of an emergency, I have already discussed this in committee. I thought that it might even be possible to argue that these three days had little time, even if we expect the Constitutional Court to decide as soon as possible, but it was swept off as usual, like all opposition proposals, this too, so that the debate on this part was not even opened unfortunately. I believe that this proposal is unacceptable in the end and in the final vote, since it has not accepted our various comments, and the Committee has not considered it necessary to consider them either. On the other hand, the Hungarian Movement considers it necessary to state that we do not support the new world order, the restriction of our freedoms, the changing, but continuous, extraordinary legal order, the Covid dictatorship and other Covid types of closure, or restrictions, which are now the closure of fundamental institutions on the outspoken side of the state due to the increase in overhead. There's no legal order, there's no justice, and there's no law anymore. György Budaházy could talk about this because he now had to launch a hunger strike from today in order, for example, to allow for the right to appeal by the prison institution. But unfortunately, we are seeing them more and more widely, especially in extraordinary legal systems, of course. With this amendment of the law, they want to hide disproportionate restrictions on the rights: instead of an unlimited emergency, it can be 180 days of disenfranchised. Is that supposed to make us happy? It did not support the amendment of the basic law aimed at extending the emergency situation, even when the government tried to expand its capacity to maintain a special legal order by referring to the war situation in neighbouring countries. After the coronal virus, they seem to be looking for a new way to keep people under constant restrictions in extraordinary legal order, but we need to shed light on their deceit. The announcement of the war situation also means armed preparations, and it also has a very bad diplomatic message. Instead, a government decision allowing foreign NATO combat groups to enter Hungary should be withdrawn, because the fact that our country is an area of military march causes a real emergency for our country. After the government, despite its earlier promise, allowed NATO troops to be deployed in Hungary in the framework of the US-Russian war, Mi Hazak remained the only party to speak in favour of Hungary's independence. Foreign forces have no place in our country, because Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. And our contractual obligation from our NATO membership would only help to protect it if a Member State was attacked, but Ukraine is not a NATO member. We should oppose the military support of Soviet Ukraine, pursuing a repressive policy against the Hungarian national part of Transcarpathia, and serving American interests. Unfortunately, the Hungarian government is not doing this entirely. The embargo against the Russians has already caused invaluable damage to the Hungarian economy. The Hungarian interest should be the first. The Hungarian government should not provoke the Russians either by supporting Ukraine's unconditional accession to the EU and by maintaining a war emergency and military preparation. It is also unacceptable that the commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces secretly visited the Ukrainian Joint Chiefs of Staff in July. We learned about this only in hindsight, didn't we, from Ukrainian news. The head of the armed forces there said that he was satisfied with the level of military cooperation between Ukraine and Hungary. What else does he know that our government doesn't want us to know? Since then, it has been discovered that the Baltic airspace is once again provided to Hungarian Gripes, and they are already in conflict with Russian fighters. In closing, they are actually passing on the baton among the various emergencies. That's what our country Movement can't accept. In fact, not only us, András Schiffer, for example, to quote a left-wing thinker, have repeatedly said that even in a special legal order, the Fundamental Law does not allow the suspension of fundamental rights or the limitation of fundamental rights beyond what is necessary or proportionate. Indeed, we have seen this, because the blackmail of taking the workplace has been suffered by many as a government abuse, not only in the case of coercion of vaccinations, but in many cases it has not only been an abuse, but it has also been counterproductive. Think of the closure of swimming pools, or that you couldn't run, let's say, after the children were laid, the early store locks with which people were crowded, and we could still have a long list of counterproductive and, in many cases, government abuses that our country Movement can't support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-24-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-66	Mr President, That is not why I asked for the floor in the first place, but I do have to adjust my fellow Member before me on one issue. There is no U.S.-Russian war, no matter what the more bloody part of the government propaganda says about it, or even the Mi Hazák, who is so intertwined and closely associated with it. Ukraine has been attacked by Russia, Ukraine is the victim of Russian aggression, and I think it may be a matter of consideration as to the role of Hungary in the fight against this aggression, what support we consider to be of national interest, this can be debated, this can be discussed, but in favour of the Russian aggressors, or to be more precise because I do not want to condemn the Russian people, to stand in favour of President Putin in this case, it is not at least compatible with the Hungarian national interests, and then I said it very culturally, I can say this much more harshly.
u2022-10-24-67	Don't do it!
u2022-10-24-68	That is not why I asked for the floor, but to draw attention very briefly to what I have done on several occasions. Ladies and gentlemen, The situation remains that Hungary's state form is an emergency, and you continue to maintain an out-of-constitutional state in order to make a series of important decisions by circumventing the Parliament. Because while we are going to have a very exciting debate here on the Osaka World Exhibition, and we will certainly be thrilled to see in particular who wins the relevant procurements, while the government is hiding behind the emergency, constantly making decisions that involve the transfer of very significant resources in English, handing out money without thinking, or that involve damaging the interests of this or that social group and detracting its rights. [[15.50]] Let me remind you that the withdrawal of teachers' right to strike was first published in such an emergency government decree. So, when we say that we do not support a continuous emergency, we are arguing not only about how a rule of law should operate, but, above all, we are arguing that you want to maintain the situation in which you are able to spend the money without restrictions, you are in a position to rewrite the budget. Today, the budget is just a fiction, a dream, a science fiction piece that has nothing to do with reality, so I have to tell you that we will never be partners in that, so that you can maintain this kind of overpower to constantly prolong the emergency. Let me point out one more little thing. The special status of immigration has been ongoing since 2015. If there are migrants, if there are no migrants, if there is no one, if there is no one, you are like the occupying Soviet army, which has arrived temporarily, and then you remain here all the time. You use exactly the same trick, introduce such extraordinary situations, and then maintain them endlessly. We have not supported this and we will not continue to support it. Unfortunately, the amendments did not make it any better to accept those which would have improved it a little, so that we cannot support it in any way. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-10-24-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister, Mr State Secretary, if you would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[Tamás Vargha says no.]] No. Thank you very much. I would like to ask the author, Mrs Boglarka Elijah, that she wishes to make use of the closing opportunity. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor. Your time frame is 15 minutes, please.
u2022-10-24-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment very briefly on this debate in the context of the closing, because on 4 October we had the opportunity to discuss the proposal before us for a longer time, and my fellow Members who spoke also had the opportunity to express their views. At this point in the debate, I found that they had used the possibility of repetition, because I did not see any new arguments being put forward; the arguments that had already been made on 4 October were made. When asked to introduce a time limit, it would have been good for them; now that the time limit is being introduced, this is not good for them. What I would like to emphasise is that we do not want to maintain an emergency. Our neighbor is at war, and it forces us to maintain the emergency with a time limit. I would also like to ask my fellow Members to do their utmost to ensure that our neighbours have peace as soon as possible, that the ceasefire takes place as soon as possible and that negotiations on this matter are launched as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-24-71	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, The decisions will take place on our meeting today in a few minutes. In the meantime, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats quietly; to check that they have placed their cards properly in the voting machine. Looking at the monitor, I can see that there is still six minutes until 16:00, so I am going to take a break for this period, but I would ask my fellow Members to remain inside if they are not forced to leave the Chamber. (Speech: 15.54 16.01) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-10-24-72	[[Several congressmen are talking standing up.]] I ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, I would also ask you to take your seat. [[It's happening.]] We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. In today's decisions, we also decide to accept proposals requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rule of 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill or a proposal for a resolution, this shall extend without any further specific decision to the withdrawal of the provision indicating the fundamentality of the non-approved regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. I'll wait for Mr. Lukács Group Leader to take his place and ask him to put his card in, because then there's no reference. [[It's happening.]] Thank you. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Nacsa Lőrinc: The Gyurcsány is not here! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Gyurcsány is not here, but if you want it, I'll tell him! I don't know if this latent, uh, attraction...]] There are 175 Members present, 24 Members absent. Parliament has a quorum. Does everyone have feedback on how their computer worked? [[Gergely Harvesto: No one has it now, Mr. President.]] That's not bad, either. [[For signal:]] Okay, thank you very much. It follows that T/1311 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the declaration of assets relating to the control of the use of EU budgetary resources will be followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1311/8. T/1311/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the House that the house rules are set at 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 5 of the Dialogue Group, the Group of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Congressman Bence Tordai. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 48 votes in favour, 125 votes against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Bernadett Bakos and his fellow Members. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present is necessary for the adoption of this. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 128 votes against and 6 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 to 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, 16, 20 and 28, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1311/8. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 140 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 7 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1311/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 139 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 12 abstentions. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the final vote follows. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1311/10. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 139 votes in favour, 22 votes against and 16 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1311/10. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 140 votes in favour, 22 votes against and 16 abstentions. Next up is XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities. T/1308 on the amendment of Act T/1308 relating to the extension of the emergency situation Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. [[16.10]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1308. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 142 votes in favour, 31 votes against and 6 abstentions. We now decide on the provisions of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1308. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 142 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now up to you to discuss immunity cases and to decide on them. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that there was a motion to suspend the immunity of independent Members of Parliament Ákos Hadházy on 12 September 2022 1.Bpk.192/2022/4/3. I'm a member of the Komlo District Court on a private charge of defamation. This was handed over to the immunity committee under presidential authority for consideration. The immunity committee is H/1513. Mr Ákos Hadházy presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has been said here, the Komló District Court is calling on Parliament for defamation of Mr Hadházy's immunity. The settlement where Congressman Hadházy, elected representative of Zugló, did his work on the day of the Parliament's meeting, Kisvaszar. This is a village in Baranya with a handkerchief, a village of 300 people, with an independent mayor. There are decent people living in this settlement. This mayor and this body have implemented two EFOP projects to improve living conditions for people with very difficult fates. Those who know that area and know the settlement, my fellow Member, Csaba Nagy, is mostly like this, and I know it, too, is close to my constituency, so I know that this project was implemented there. We visit this area not only when we do not signify the Day of Parliament, but also live in this region. The point is that one of the families concerned, which complained about what happened there, turned to the Member, turned to Congressman Hadházy, and Mr Hadházy listened to this family, a member of the family, and on Facebook he repeatedly formulated his rugged statements. The point of this is that they stole the village's money, the poor's money among the thieves, the first of the thieves, of course, the mayor, and so on. They also asked for guidance from the family, if they come to check, the sponsor will come to check on the project's completion, then they will act. The Member's reply was that I can see from the complaint that, of course, the sponsor should not be allowed into the apartment. That is how this member of the family acted, and he did not let the sponsor in to check the realization of the investment that had otherwise been made. One word, like a hundred, can you imagine what is happening in such a small settlement of 300 people, when a Member of Parliament from far away is speaking out loud, obviously, the life of a village is upsetting. The mayor resents this and therefore wishes to bring her own position to justice in a private prosecution. I could also tell you that this is a typical case. Typically, everything happens on Facebook, as it usually does. It is also typical in the sense that Congressman Hadházy is the Member who brings the most of these cases to Parliament, and generally based on this level of scrutiny. However, it is not typical in such a way, because the Parliament is considering that this private indictment is a stalker of this motion, detracting the Member from the parliamentary work. From Congressman Hadházy, if I literally link the parliamentary work to this House, it is difficult to draw it away, since he has never been to the Parliament and said that he will not do so in the future. However, the Committee on immunity, following the practice so far, is proposing to the Parliament, as a private motion, that we not suspend the immunity of the Member in the case in question. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now asking Mr Ákos Hadházy to take the opportunity to speak. Unfortunately, I can't give him a word because he's not here. [[Moors and voices from the pro-government benches, among them: Wow!]] Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament Ákos Hadházy. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended Mr Ákos Hadházy's immunity by 141 votes in favour, 38 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there was a motion for the waiver of immunity from the immunity of our fellow Member of Parliament, Antal Csárdi, on 10 October 2022, KSB.812/2022/4. I'm hearing from the Attorney General in a public prosecutor's complaint about the misdemeanor of the use of false private documents. To examine this, the President issued it to the immunity committee. The immunity committee shall be H/1706. Antal Csárdi, Member of Parliament, submitted a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-75	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As has already been said here, the Attorney General will turn to Parliament. It follows that this is a public case and that the prosecution is a misdemeanor of using a false private document. It is well known that the Members of Parliament, who do not have housing in Budapest, and the family members who live with them, are hired here by Parliament. That's what Congressman Antal Csárdi did in District I has this lease, uses this property with his wife. They concluded a lease agreement that the amount of the rent, which is not very high, is 186 thousand forints, so I'm saying that there are people who rent for a lot more, this rent is paid by the Parliament's Office, the rest of the costs, so the rent is paid by the tenant, so the congressman. I haven't said that much yet. The problem begins when the owner of the apartment who rents this property lives in America and entrusts a lady named Dr. V. Á. to represent his affairs in front of utility service providers. This order will also be sent to utility service providers. What was a problem here was the supplier of the gas supply. The thing is that there will be 37 thousand forints missing for the congressman on this property, so the gas will be removed from the apartment. When the congressman sees this, he is obviously taking steps to reclaim the gas supply of this property and to present an assignment issued by the owner of America in his name, that he is now the one who operates with the utility companies. As a witness, his wife and mother-in-law are on this certificate. Here the witnesses prove it, and they only prove that the assignment was given before them. [[16.20]] Obviously, the owner and the former trustee, who had the right to act before the utility companies, claim that nothing of the sort has happened. By doing so, practically Antal Csárdi, as I read in the documents, deprived the previous principal of the right to represent the owner in front of the utility companies. That's the problem. Obviously, the investigation starts, witnesses are being questioned, documents are being obtained, and based on this, the D.A.'s office finds out that we're dealing with a fake private document here, so someone took the owner's name. Who, the D.A.'s office, doesn't know, and that doesn't make much sense in that regard. This is how the case comes before us, because Congressman Antal Csárdi is a Member of Parliament, and in order to pursue this public prosecutor's case with him, it is necessary to suspend or refuse immunity. As a public prosecutor, the Parliament's Committee on Patents unanimously proposes to Parliament that we suspend the immunity of Congressman Antal Csárdi on the matter in question.
u2022-10-24-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Csárdi, Mr Antal, with all due respect, that he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Antal Csárdi: Yes.]] Yeah. I would like to inform Congressman that you have a five-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, All I ask of the Honourable Parliament is that my immunity be granted, because I think that I can prove that this attack is not based on any basis. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-24-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position to suspend the immunity of the congressman from the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Congressman Antal Csárdi. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of Antal Csárdi by 177 votes in favour, 1 votes against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that a motion to suspend the immunity of President Novak, representative of the Hungarian Parliament, was received on 10 October 2022 5.B.1545/2022/10-I. The Court of Justice of the Central District of Buda has been prosecuted in a criminal offence and a misdemeanor of a misdemeanor. To examine this, the President gave it to the Committee on immunity. The immunity committee shall be H/1705. Parliamentary Member Novák put forward a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I shall give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the opinion of the Committee in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Court of the Central District of Buda calls on us to suspend the immunity of the President of Novak for the offence of misdemeanour and destruction. There are two things at stake: two acts have been carried out by the Member, by the way, when he was not yet a Member of Parliament. So we're talking about an ongoing court case. In order for this to continue, in the case of the Novák Előd since then, Parliament must, if you will, grant permission to suspend immunity. The previous case is September 2010. All I can see from the documents is that the photographers behind the beer taps were a photo exhibition at the Budapest Cultural Center. It contained a photo worth 2,000 HUF, which represented a kissing lesbian party. The congressman, with paint on it, pulled an I.C.I. on it, damaged it while the screen was damaged. Not a very large amount will be established by the competent authorities in this case. This is one of the cases. The other case is 2020. Dated by month 08. This has had more press coverage, which is why I am familiar with my fellow Members. In addition to a municipal property, the congressman removed a rainbow-colored flag on a flag holder while damaging the lock mechanism with which it was attached. The lock mechanism alone was more expensive than the flag, that's what I can see from the documents. It's a public matter, too. The Member appeared at the immunity committee meeting and asked for his immunity to be suspended; as he said, he met his duty of conscience in both cases when he acted. Here I note, in hindsight, that Mr Csárdi's speech was confirmed that he was present at the session of the Committee on immunity and asked for his extradition there. Returning to these two cases, which is actually a case because they were united by the court, the immunity committee unanimously took the view that, as a public prosecutor's case, the Member's immunity was suspended in the case in question, otherwise in accordance with his request.
u2022-10-24-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now ask Mr President Novák to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[The First of Novak: Yes.]] Yeah. In a five-minute time frame, I give the floor to Mr. President Novak. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-81	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, I could say that I wasn't there, as some criminals do, who I can't call by their names now, because Mr. Speaker would immediately put another procedure on my neck, but I'm actually willing to do it, and I'm even proud to have included the rainbow flag. Some people are proud of one of the LGBTQ abbreviations, some are more advanced on pedophilia, some are proud of necrophile, I'm proud of my pro-normal action, whatever it takes. The police threatened two years in prison, had a late-night search, it was a very serious matter, we need police forces, we need a DNA sample taken along with fingerprinting and taking photos. All because of the inclusion of the New Buda flag two years ago. This is the government's attempt to intimidate the pro-normalist forces against the propaganda of deviants. But in essence, I've been acquitted of the flag removal from the headquarters of the Metropolitan City Council. According to the court's final judgment, I quote against me that the imposition of a penalty is unnecessary, so there are different interpretations of the law within the opposition, of course, and many world views. [[It's constant, it's loud. Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] In the case of LGBTQP rag removed from Budapest City Hall by a 15-meter fire ladder, the police suspected me of stealing. However, according to the final court order, placing in the trash can also proves that there is no such thing, only a cut of an asparagus was considered a very serious damage for which I received a mere warning. According to the court's justification, I quote that as Vice President of the Hungarian Movement, he felt the duty of conscience to remove the rainbow flag from its place. Well, fellow Members, let every pro-normal activist consider this encouragement, I think. Am I the mastermind now? Well, stop messing around. [[Gergely Harvestó: Of course you are! Defiance.]] The provocative anti-communicative behavior was just committed by those who set the rainbow flag. When is the police going to prosecute them, the Minister of the Interior, for example? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Minister of the Interior is not here!]] Or is it the violation of the Hungarian flag as a national symbol already out there? After all, the symbol of the anti-family LGBTQP movement was displayed in the absence of the decision of the competent bodies by the pro-normalist majority. The way homosexuals reproduce... [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell. Dávid Bedő: How can this be allowed in Europe?]] Don't be alarmed. [[Defiance.]] ... it's definitely propaganda. But that would be the end of our country. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's quite outrageous!]] to at least reduce the number of fashion and interest homosexuals. In the face of the patient's pride proclaimed by the aggressive movement of homosexualism, they should bear their fate with dignity, not boast of deviance, lying to normal people. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: This is outrageous!]] Which, of course, is not [[Dávid Bedő: Take the floor! Dr. Répássy Róbert: The last word!]] It's not, understand now, and they shouldn't be demanding the adoption of children without wanting to be in a normal relationship. Their rights are still equal, I say, I do not support the extra rights... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2022-10-24-82	Congressman! Congressman, I think you'd be kind enough to tell me all this in full detail in court. [[First of Novak: all right!]] So that's how I give the word back. [[16.30]]
u2022-10-24-83	As regards immunity in general: The Hungarian Movement would abolish this outdated political privilege so that the Pharisee or Parizzite politicians could not hide behind it. As a single party, our representatives always vote to suspend everyone's immunity. However, you voted against the inclusion in the series of amendments to our basic law to abolish immunity, saying that there is a common case law at international level. [[Szabolcs Szabó: This has nothing to do with the current case.]] But that's a lie. There are many European examples of abolishing or restricting immunity. In the United Kingdom and since 2012 in Slovakia, MEPs have no immunity from criminal prosecution. The vote on our proposal was also justified by the fact that they do not exercise immunity in public cases, but allow me to deny it. For example, at the time of the first Orbán administration, István Bebes in Fideszes' case was already requested by the Attorney General to suspend immunity in a public prosecutor's case, in a private document counterfeiting case, but the majority, the Fidesz majority, maintained it. During the same Orbán government cycle, the prosecution asked for the suspension of immunity against András Rapcsák in the case of unfaithful treatment, but again they did not. Well, there were examples later, let's give a KDNP example: in the case of László Solomon, the Attorney General turned to the National Assembly for a significant excess of speed limits, but you drove it away. Or we could take the example of the DK Shadow Minister, Gergely Arató, where, in the case of a life-threatening, reckless assault, the Attorney General asked for his immunity to be suspended in vain... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Be quiet, no one wants to hear from you.]]
u2022-10-24-84	Congressman, time's up. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who have been very hung up and nervous to calm down, to go to the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of President Novák. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of Mr President Novák by 171 votes in favour, 1 votes against and 1 abstentions. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. Congressman Bence of Turdai made a point of order. I would like to inform the Member that it is not possible to speak on a case-by-case basis when making decisions, which is why I can now come back to this. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-24-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The point of my point of order is that the speech of the extreme right-wing Member clearly exhausts the concept of hate speech with his homophobic and racist remarks, which, according to the House Rules, has no place in Parliament. I would like to propose that, in similar cases, Members who violate the dignity of this House and human dignity should be removed. [[László Toroczkai: You don't decide that! You know what democracy is? We have a hundred times more voters than you!]] I'm asking you to do this in the spirit of normality and a good majority. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the lines of DK, Dialogue, Momentum, LMP and MSZP.]]
u2022-10-24-86	Thank you very much. Fellow Members! If you have any further discussions, I would ask you to proceed outside the Chamber. [[László Toroczkai: You are the great anti-democrat with your friends!]] Mr. Team Leader, Mr. Group Leader. With all due respect, if you have any further arguments, please do so in the hallway with Mr Bence Tordai, but without any physical violence. [[Lajos Lorčei: Laugh!]] 'Cause there's been a case of someone asking you to come out into the hallway, and I'd like to remind you about that. [[Szabolcs Szabó: At the gypsy, you should have... Novák Előd: Go home!]] Dear Parliament, Congressman, Congressman. Congressman, in case you haven't noticed, I don't have to warn you that I've started discussing the next item on the agenda. [[László Toroczkai intervenes.]] and those who do not like this, please step outside, but allow the interpellations in the Chamber to be given without further ado. [[A statement from the opposition: Nazi dog...]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:, Why not immediately increase the pay of teachers? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent and competent according to the subject. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. Congressman Gergely Harvesto has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-87	First of all, I regret that, although Minister, you are present in this Chamber, you do not wish to respond to my interpellation of his words, because he was the one who...
u2022-10-24-88	After informing you clearly that the Prime Minister believes that the mandate and authority on this subject is exercised by the Minister of the Interior, the Prime Minister knows who he has entrusted this task to, so it cannot be a question of who will answer. Sándor Pintér has the right to reply, and Sándor Pintér has the right to ask Bencé Rétvári to answer on his behalf. You have the right to say that Rétvári Bence has the right to answer. Thank you very much for your understanding. Here you go. We're starting time again.
u2022-10-24-89	Dear House, Yesterday there was such a demonstration, a demonstration on the streets of Budapest, that, if not on the Moon, the most courageous street warrior could be seen from behind Zalaegerszeg's screens. Teachers, students, parents, sympathizers together demanded that they finally help in the educational situation, finally help in the lack of teachers, raise the wages of teachers. The fact is that you responded to the dissatisfaction by saying that before the demonstration, Minister Gergely Gulyás started an imposing verbal amok run, in which he announced various random numbers for the years to come, that, of course, when the European Union allows this, and when he rises to the average salary of graduates as he rises, then how much salary increases will be given to teachers. The problem is that the promises made to teachers are already in the attic. The problem is that you are not actually negotiating with the unions or the students, but are communicating with protesters at press conferences, with those who, by the way, have an opinion on this issue, who would like our children to receive a good education. The reason why your promise is empty, I explained it relatively in detail in the text of the interpellation, and I would not burden the House, Mr Secretary of State, on this point. [[16.40]] The fact is, Mr House, Mr Secretary of State, that the wages of teachers must be increased. You have to raise because there are no teachers, no teachers, no teachers, because there is no one to teach our children, no one to develop children in the kindergarten, no teachers in the majors, no teachers, no kindergarten teachers, basically everyone in this education system. The question is no longer that education works at the right level, the question is that it can continue to function at all. Therefore, I must say that there is a need for a wage increase, and immediately. And don't hide with Brussels. Over the past 12 years, there has been money in Brussels, but they haven't given educators a decent wage increase. Stop fooling teachers and students! In 2014, teachers learned that your promises are worthless. So I look forward to your response, Mr Secretary of State, to how much the wages of teachers will be increased right now, and not in 2025. Finally, yesterday, the Single Student Front organization announced an educational round table to discuss the problems of education. Klára Dobrev's shadow government is ready to take part in this. I would like to ask that the government will also take part in this consultation, so that a joint national education programme can finally be created. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-24-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You demanded an immediate wage increase. Mr President, of course, teachers deserve a wage increase, so there will be a wage increase from January onwards. But who are you who demands this raise? You are the one here in Parliament who has voted not to raise wages, but to cut wages. You and László Varju sitting next to you and Ferenc Gyurcsány sitting in front of you and the Gy behind you. Erzsébet Németh, as well as István Hiller, Csaba Molnár, Lajos Oláh, László Varju, Ágnes Vadai, Zsolt Molnár, you are the teachers' wage reducers. You are one of the few politicians who have reduced the wages of Hungarian teachers since the change of regime; who have come into Parliament and decided to reduce the salaries of Hungarian teachers by 8 percent annually. No one else! He hasn't done that in the last 30 years, just you and only you. And you come here and say you need an immediate wage increase. I agree with what you're saying about the need for a salary increase for teachers. But how do you say all this? ! Wouldn't there have been at least one of you who didn't vote for a teacher's wage reduction so that he might have demanded that he, who wasn't a secretary of state at the time? You say, Congressman, that you must listen to the slogans on the street and the voices of protestors there. But what did you say as Secretary of State? Literally you, when you were Secretary of State, protests are not a good answer to problems. And the wallet is not dissuaded by the original intention of the demonstration. You're talking about having to sit down with those who protest. And as Secretary of State, you said that the protest was not a good answer, and that the demonstration could be as much as possible, you will not change your position. He did not say that there is a reduction in salaries here, but that there is a better, more efficient use of available funds. That's what he said when the wages were cut by eight percent. [[Gergely Arató: This was 2006! You're mixing dates!]] No, Congressman, you said that a year later. That's what he said when 15,000 teachers were laid off when schools were closed at 381 locations. Honourable Congressman, Teachers' expectations coincide with our intention to raise their teacher's wages. But you say that? Are you guys gonna go out and self-defeat with the teachers? A lot of people have asked you not to settle for this demonstration. You said you didn't settle on it, you just went out and self-parked. What if they hadn't settled on it? Then what would they have done, how could they have done that? What did you say about the teacher's wage increase this winter to Klára Dobrev, which was completed in January? It means that teachers don't need pre-election government trinkets. [[Eszter Vitalos: Oops!]] That's how the Shadow Prime Minister spoke about the teacher's wage increase. The Shadow Minister told them not to protest because they wouldn't change it, the Shadow Minister took a month's wages, and the Shadow Minister said less than a year ago that they didn't need that kind of money. And you say that you would have the Hungarian education in your hands? ! I will continue to say that I am not arguing with the need to increase the wages of teachers, but I am arguing that anything in your hands would be in a better place, honourable Member. We really want to devote EU funds to raising the wages of teachers not only by 10 percent in two months' time, but also in higher values. And there was no brave Member among you a shadow minister, a shadow-government spokesperson, a shadow-president, who would have dared to say in Brussels that, ladies and gentlemen in Brussels, the money that Hungarian teachers pay, and the money that would actually be due to Hungary for a year, would be given to the Hungarian teachers. They only told them to punish Hungary, not to pay the funds to Hungary. That's how you block teachers from getting even more wage increases. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-92	Thank you very much. I will ask Congressman Gergely Arató to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-93	Dear House, Mr. State Secretary, to apply a pedagogical wording, his knowledge of the short-term Hungarian education history remains insufficient. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that between 2002 and 2010, overall, the wages of teachers increased more in sum than in the last 12 years. I would also like to say that the sentence you quoted continued in such a way that, if not, we should sit down and negotiate. Because it was possible to negotiate with us, and it can't be with you. [[Bence Rétvári: Rubber bullet!]] But it's not about what happened, it's not about what happened, because that's not why they sent you or me, it's about what happens now. And you keep making promises. But what your promise means is that the teachers learned in 2014, when you promised to increase teachers' wages by the minimum wage. Instead, you immediately stopped this automatism. Finally, Mr. Secretary, you're wearing a T-shirt representing Péter Mansfeld. That's a nice gesture. Do you think Péter Mansfeld would be standing next to protesting students today, or alongside the BM district directors? [[It's a lot of noise. Bence Rétvári: They wouldn't stand next to Klára Dobrev! Eszter Vitalos: Not by your side, that's for sure!]] I can't accept the answer.
u2022-10-24-94	Congressman, did you not accept the answer? [[Gergely Harvester: No.]] Thank you very much. That didn't come out. So the congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Éva Sebők, representative of Momentum... sorry, sorry, Zoltán Vajda comes first, I just raised two cards, but I have already taken it back. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, Imre Komjáthi and Zoltán Vajda, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the finance minister: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, You will hear the answer from Secretary of State András Tállai. Congressman Zoltán Vajda has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's a little difficult, but I got the floor. First of all, I'm sorry that Mihály Varga couldn't find her way here for some reason.
u2022-10-24-96	Congressman, I would very much ask you not to attach anything to everything that has happened because you have no opportunity. If you have a problem, you can criticise my leadership style in the form of a point of order. That's your chance. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-24-97	I have not criticized in any way, Mr President, but I am indicating that Mihály Varga was in the Chamber five minutes ago, and now he has given the answer to his subordinate. But I'm sure I'll get a meaningful answer from Secretary of State Tállai, as always. My topic is that we need a resistop and not fidesz restrictions. Hungary is on the verge of an unprecedented livelihood disaster, with continuous increases, double-digit inflation, dew-weak forints, an economy exposed to the international environment, energy-price explosions and fragmented society. Although before the elections, the government argued that it would protect the reduction of the rent, it drastically increased the fee for the supply of electricity and natural gas to the general public on 1 August, thus eliminating the previously known system for reducing the costs. So much for government promises. The price of electricity and the price of natural gas has doubled by seven times above the average consumption lost inexplicably. The rising price tags have only one winner, the government, which also holds a 27 percent VAT rate on higher prices, as in the case of earlier lower rates. The MSZP finds it outrageous that the government wants to profit from families in serious trouble, elderly people, so they want to patch the holes in their combined budgets with the tax press. Because of the rising prices, the government collects much more tax revenues, which, according to experts, means hundreds of billions of HUF tax increases in practice. That's how much money they take from families, pensioners, small businesses, municipalities. The government's decision to brutally increase energy bills has yet to be realized by the world record tax rate, and we can already see the amazing consequences: the unheatable Kádár cubes in which the elderly live have been abandoned by the government. But we can also see cities being chased close to bankruptcy, and we can also hear radical restrictions. [[16.50]] Despite the fact that the governments of other European countries are introducing new and new help to their citizens, the Hungarian government is currently introducing these tools, just when families need them the most, because it is not normal to pay HUF 159 instead of HUF 22 in the case of gas, and HUF 15 instead of HUF 7.5 in the case of electricity. For this reason, the MSZP proposes, in its Resisttop Package, to reduce the VAT rate of firewood, briquettes, LPG cylinders and universal electricity and gas services from 27 per cent to 5 per cent of fuels. Since there are official prices, the VAT reduction could not be swallowed by the service provider, so the benefit would be for consumers. This tax reduction can save up to 100,000 forints for a family in just one heating season. I have two questions. Why does the government profit from the drastically increased electricity and gas bill that the world record [[The president's ringing the bell.]] do they tax consumers with 27 percent VAT? And my last question: when will the VAT rate for fuels and universal electricity and gas supply be reduced from 27 percent to 5 percent? Thank you.
u2022-10-24-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Deputy Minister András Tállai, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Listening and learning about your interpellation, you tell us the wishes of the Hungarian Socialist Party and your government experience before 2010. Why am I saying this? In his interpellation, he talks about disaster, desertion of the elderly, bankrupt cities, and austerity. This is all the experience of your administration. You caused a disaster in 2009, when GDP did not grow at a low level, but decreased. Hundreds of thousands of unemployed have been caused by their crisis management and state failure! There was no war, and there were no sanctions in the European Union. Hit-and-run? Well, that's exactly what you did: the withdrawal of the 13th month's pension, the reduction of the real pension. Cities close to bankruptcy? Well, that's exactly what you did: you had to take over the city's debts by HUF 1300 billion. And the restrictions? Well, that's your favorite thing to say. Honourable Congressman, As far as the overhead is concerned, let us first clarify why the energy price is so high. It's because there's a war on the one hand. We will now allow you to support it, but let us not allow how the resulting EU sanctions series has been voted on, supported with both hands. And now they're going to charge the penalty premium on this country, which was caused by your policy, by the way. As far as average consumption is concerned, on the one hand, the only government in Europe is the Hungarian government, which has introduced such a system of support, which affects all people and all families, and encourages people to make significant savings, because this is an important goal; it encourages savings, and the facts of the past two or three months prove this. As far as VAT is concerned, I'll give you an international example. In the Netherlands, the VAT rate is 9 percent, yet one of the highest energy prices in Europe is paid. Or the VAT rate in the Czech Republic is zero percent, and yet they are thinking about and will introduce the maximum energy prices applied in Hungary. Or in Germany, which is involved in its interpellation, it is true that the price of gas has been temporarily reduced [[Sic!]] From 19 per cent to 7 per cent, but you didn't say that a levy was introduced from 1 October, with which German families will pay more for energy than they would otherwise with VAT reductions. And your relationship with VAT: around 2003-04, in the first cycle, you were the only government that raised the tax on electricity from 12 percent to 20 percent first, then 25 percent. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] And do you know how you handled the crisis with regard to VAT? In 2009, the general rate of VAT was raised to 25 per cent. Instead, do you know what's going on? No one increases the VAT, you have responded by increasing the VAT rate, but at the same time, every family, every person is supported by the government in connection with consumption. We think it is the right support system, and we want to maintain it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-100	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Zoltán Vajda to accept the reply of the Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-101	Mr State Secretary, after 12 years of government, you spent your notes pointing back for periods before 2010, you failed to give a meaningful answer, but I didn't think of anything more. But I'm gonna help you with a number, okay? 5044 billion forints, okay? So more than HUF 5000 billion in budget revenue is I-IX. in the month, by more than HUF 1170 billion, 30 percent higher than last year. Do you know what that means? It means that they have never collected so much turnover tax from families, businesses and municipalities themselves. And you're telling me they're not profiting? ! Well, he says they're helping by charging everyone with an extremely high, world-high tax. They force families to choose between shopping and paying bills. Entrepreneurs should pay, don't they, just the VAT, even if it means bankruptcy for thousands of companies. I suggest you leave this increase, 1170 billion forints for families and businesses. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Reduce the fees to 5%. [[Sic!]] I'm sure I can't accept your answer. Thank you.
u2022-10-24-102	Thank you very much. The Member did not accept the Deputy Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Éva Sebők, the representative of Momentum, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture. When will the firewood finally be in peace? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr. Sándor Farkas will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-103	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Two weeks ago, on October 10, 2022, we met in similar circumstances, and I drew your attention to the problems related to the shortage of firewood and the transport and cutting of firewood. On 24 September, even at the sale points in Gyula and Szeged, we made a demand for firewood so that we could monitor and monitor how sales are, not according to propaganda, but in reality. We're near the end of October, and we haven't received a signal from the forestry department about how to go for the tree or what's coming at all. In your reply on 10 October, you informed me that the firewood is on its way to the South Great Plain, and the problem is about to be solved. That didn't happen. In fact, just as I predicted, the crooks appeared, both the Nebih and the police had to issue a warning. There is still no solution to how multimetre logs will reach settlements more than 50 kilometres away, such as Nagyszárás or Gadoros; there is no solution to how elderly, injured and single parents will manage the processing of multimetre logs. At the end of last week, a temperature of around zero was measured at night, but a significant chill is predicted by early November. However, no firewood is available, transport and processing problems remain unsolved. We are still facing a mass disaster, for which no solution is offered. My questions are: when will firewood finally be available in Peace? When are you planning to provide some sort of solution to transport and processing problems? And when do you realize you can't heat it with success propaganda? Thank you very much.
u2022-10-24-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister of State, I give the floor to the answer. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, we have already had a debate or perhaps a discussion about this, but I would like to make it clear that the firewood programme has actually become a fuel in Hungary, as a result of the energy crisis and catastrophic energy price increases caused by the war situation, which has not been experienced to this extent in the past. Therefore, I have to tell you that the firewood programme is one of the many government programmes that have been launched to help the population, because we also consistently think about how we can help the Hungarian population, the Hungarian families, and in this situation that surrounds us today, the government is in this position with the families. [[17.00]] (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I also have to tell you that the start of the firewood program was huge, perhaps a little unexpected to us, with great interest, and indeed, we agree that there are also profiteers on this field who have not been accounted for. This will, of course, be filtered out, but perhaps I could say that in several places, including the Province of Peace, there was a demand for wood exceeding the production capacity in a short period of time. In this unfortunate situation the South Great Plain is in, as forest areas are not in the country in a large part. The size of the demand is well indicated by the fact that while from the beginning of the year until the end of September state forest farms sold 500,000 cubic metres of firewood directly to the population, the firewood programme launched on 19 September showed the same level of demand in three weeks. I could say that it is not possible to satisfy this, of course, overnight, but fully the Hungarian forest farms are doing their best with various co-organisations, through labour placements, to ensure that those who make the demand and payment in the firewood programme are expected to receive this demand within a short period of time, this amount of wood; I do not dare to say that before winter, but perhaps that they are constantly. I would like to reassure everyone that, in this programme, the South Great Plains will also receive quantities of wood from various parts of the country, Zala, Baranya, Western Transdanubia and Pilis. Of course, these quantities of wood are not the same from one moment to the next as they are produced locally during the grubbing-up of a forest or the exploitation of a forest, and we are therefore transporting them with appropriate means of transport from the other side of the country to these places. You told me the other day, and then maybe, I'm sorry, I reacted a little more passionately, but accept that this firewood program is not about giving fire to the population. I'm sorry, but you've just suggested how this is going to end up with the public. It comes to the population by transporting the tree from the establishment to their family home or place of use. How'd it get cut up? Just like any other place. There are entrepreneurs, there are motor saws so that they can be used for this activity. And who's gonna cut the lighter for the elderly? This is always one of the fundamental questions of the social problems of the local government that public workers might be able to help with this in relation to the settlement. But once again, it is the responsibility of each user to transport this tree to its own apartment, its use, and its condition in the particular firing chamber. This is no longer expected of the Hungarian forest economy and the Hungarian government! Next time, we'll have to add matches. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman Éva Sebők to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-10-24-107	Thank you very much. I'm not going to accept the Secretary of State's answer, but I'd like to stress a little bit what happened. Mr. Secretary of State now basically admitted that he was lying when he said two weeks ago that the tree was on its way. The Secretary of State acknowledged that the government was standing there with its pants down and could not resolve the situation, and the Secretary of State also acknowledged that the situation would not be resolved by the beginning of winter. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-24-108	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. If fuel is expensive, then life is expensive. At the request of the Minister of Technology and Industry, László Palkovics, who is responsible for the subject, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of State Secretary Zsófia Koncz. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor.
u2022-10-24-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Almost a year ago, I spoke in Parliament about the fuel prices that were loose, and I asked the Prime Minister personally to take steps to reduce this, and I made two proposals. One proposal was to reduce taxes. In order to make this feasible, I asked that the European Commission be consulted in order to allow fuel to enter the preferential VAT area. First, you voted against this proposal three times, by the way, and these negotiations have not yet started in the last year. My second suggestion was to help you go to work and raise tax-free subsidies per km from HUF 15 to HUF 30. With regard to the current amount, in addition to the fact that it was established five years ago, it should not be overlooked that it was set at a fuel price of 370 forints. This change would help the workers, of course, as the cost of going to work would be reduced to a fraction, as they would receive more support, but let us not forget that the government would also support employers, since they could grant double benefits to their employees tax-free. And here, allow me to bring you an incident this morning, as you have placed this proposal on the agenda of the Committee on Enterprise Development with enough urgency, because I have re-submitted the inclusion of this series of things as a proposal for a resolution. The entire pro-government majority and the present pro-government representatives voted against this. They said, by the way, and I would like to emphasise here that this is not topical at the moment. If he doesn't have actuality at the moment, I can't imagine when this will be topical. In recent months, the government has continuously reduced the possibility of preferential fuelling, thus making fewer and fewer people entitled to fuel the 480 forints price cap fuel. By doing so, all suppliers, all producers, all service providers are fueled at market prices of 740-750 or 840 forints, and two things follow: either because of increased costs, they close and give up their service which is not good for them and is not good for the population, or they raise a price. It's not good for the public either. And they do so during the period when, due to the high cost of overhead rents, the world record VAT, the rising euro exchange rate from hour to hour caused families to be in a hopeless situation. They need to think about what they can buy for their children, otherwise pay their heating bills or pay for their food. And I would also like to bring here the problem among the elderly, especially among the small pensioners, that they may have a source of their medicine. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State, because it has already been said from Mr Balázs Fürjes, State Secretary, that the Fidesz government wants to take action at last by the government of VAT cuts. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-24-110	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-10-24-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You mentioned two big topics in your speech, one about work and the other about fuel. With regard to jobs, I would like to highlight what I have been able to say several times in the autumn session that no one has done more than the Orbán governments in terms of job creation. We have set out to create one million jobs, which is a huge achievement, and it must also be said that there are so many people working in Hungary today that have not been working since the change of regime: 4.7 million people worked in the summer. During the corona virus epidemic, the economic protection plan helped 1 million 660 000 workers. It is also important, I think, that in June this year we had the third lowest unemployment in the European Union. And in order to help small and medium-sized enterprises and businesses because of increased energy prices, we have launched a programme. The programme will be available from 20 October. The first element of this is to compensate for the increase in energy costs for businesses. The second element also includes support for energy efficiency-enhancing investments in the same target group. We also try to help families with a number of programs. From 15 November, the government announced a interest rate stop for SMEs and decided to extend the Széchenyi card programme, as well as to help Hungarian people with firewood, brown coal, petrol price stop, food price stop and interest stop. [[17.10]] Speaking of petrol prices, it must be pointed out that our country is not affected by the sanctions against Russian oil. If the Prime Minister had said yes to this, we would have had serious supply problems, and then we wouldn't be able to talk about how much fuel costs, because we don't even know if it's inside the country. With regard to the issue of sanctions, I would like to ask for the help and support of the Member, because a few days ago, their own party president in the European Parliament said that the sanctions were working and that we had rightly adopted the austerity packages so far. I think this is wrong on the issue of fuel, because if we hadn't stood up for Hungary to be an exception to the sanctions on oil, then we wouldn't be able to talk about the fact that the Hungarian government extended the gas stop, which I think is very, very helpful to Hungarian families and the Hungarian population. You mentioned pensions, and I think it's very important that we paid the 13th month pension, paid the inflation pension supplement, and paid the pension premium at the end of the year. In addition, it must be said that our gas reservoirs are extremely important for the country's energy supply and energy security, and that the country has virtually six months' supply of gas. We've already talked about reducing the rent. The fact that we support Hungarian families with an average of HUF 181 thousand per month is very important because the Hungarians are the most protected from the increase in the penalty price in the European Union. In Bratislava, the Hungarian gas price doubled, in Paris and London the 4 times, in Rome and Brussels the 6 times, in Vienna the 11 times, in Amsterdam the 17 times the population paid for gas in September. I would also like to ask you, Member, that you do not support the sanctions policy that violates the Hungarian people, and I would also ask you to acknowledge the Government's efforts so far. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-24-112	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Róbert Dudás to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-10-24-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, I cannot accept the reply of the Secretary of State. I would like to start with what you have concluded by listing in which countries in Europe the cost of Hungarian spending is more than that. He forgot to tell me how many times the salary is in those countries, how many times the salary they may be able to bear. I accept or see that I cannot accept it, but I can see that the government is in desperate need of the extra income it collects from taxes. But, Madam Secretary, here in Hungary, the municipalities are already fighting for their existence, releasing services, closing institutions, reaching deep into their pockets, the businesses have reached deep into their pockets, the population has reached into their pockets at such a low level that there is nowhere else to go. It's time for the government to finally reach into their pockets, let go of the extra taxes. I therefore call for my proposal to reduce the fuel tax that is in there to be supported. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-24-114	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry:.. Why is the Orbán government an enemy of pure solar energy produced by households? It's an address. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has the floor.
u2022-10-24-115	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Since your government has been in power, there has been a succession of measures aimed at making the use of solar cells in the household more difficult. Solar users have already received a solar energy tax from Fidesz, a saloon clearing before the EU deadline, and now the removal of the obligation to receive electricity from service providers. Perhaps it is important to clarify the basic concepts. There is currently a shortage of electricity in Europe. The primary reason for the lack of electricity is the lack of gas, and there is no gas because your friend Vladimir Putin, the war criminal, has been manipulating the gas market since last summer by reducing supply. The point is, therefore, that all normal governments in Europe are trying to obtain electricity preferably cheaply and from their own sources. What does the Orbán government do compared to this? For those who would produce electricity on their own house, with their own investment, and would give it cheaply to one of the electricity suppliers, they say thank you, but we do not ask for it, we would rather buy expensive import prices. Putin just sits back and snaps his fingers, that's just one problem. However, the reason attached to this irrational provision is absolutely ridiculous. It's said that the reason operators don't accept electricity from solar households is because the network can't handle it. It is interesting, when István Tiborcz or Lőrinc Mészáros, or one of the other entrepreneurs near Fidesz, oligarchs connect the hundreds of megawatts of public-funded solar panels to the system, so far there has been no such disturbance. Abolishing the obligation to take over, i.e. forcing the island to operate, makes the installation of solar panels pointless for the vast majority of the population. This harmful measure makes the return unpredictable or impossible, on the one hand, and on the other, domestic battery technology, on the other hand, even involves additional pollution, which is obviously the production of batteries, expensive and less efficient, so this is not a real solution. If the energy modernisation of the housing stock had been achieved in Hungary, and if green energy had not been tied to administrative shackles, Russia would now have little blackmail potential against Hungary, there would be greater confidence in the economy, stronger forints, less inflation. You put Hungary and the Hungarian families in a vulnerable position. In practice, I must say that anyone who is hindering the use of renewable energy sources in this difficult situation openly goes against the fundamental interests of Hungary, energy self-determination and sovereignty. Therefore, I would very much ask you to state when the government will withdraw the solar transmitter and when it will finally be restored so that the service providers will take over the electricity generated by solar panels. And by the way, I am interested in what additional regulatory and support measures the government is taking to ensure that as many people as possible produce electricity and that the market for household solar panels can continue to expand. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-10-24-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-10-24-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am very pleased that, as opposed to the left-wing narrative so far, you have acknowledged that there is, by the way, a lack of energy in Europe. With regard to your further claims, I would like to highlight a few things because, in contrast to the left, the government believes that energy cooperation, energy issues, are not political or ideological, but physical issues. The role of the nuclear power plant is indisputable. It currently provides half of domestic electricity production and 36 percent of domestic consumption. Hungary is expanding its nuclear production capacity, reducing dependence on fossil fuels. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant is continuously producing, and even the government has decided to plan to extend the operating time. Renewable energy generation capacity is also constantly increasing. The multifaceted flexibility of the electricity system for weather-dependent power generation can be increased in many ways both in the area of distribution, storage devices, networks and on consumer platforms. The flexibility of the electricity grid can be increased by innovations, design, technical and technological developments, linked to different network elements. Hungary therefore has an elemental interest in the construction of the two new Paks blocks. If you are really concerned about the lack of electricity in Europe, then it is incomprehensible to me why since 1 March the Dialogue has demanded that the Paks II Treaty be terminated with immediate effect, in view of the war situation and its consequences. In view of the fact that the domestic production provided by Paks is more favourable than the average consumption on the retail market than on the world market, if there were no Paks, we would not be able to ensure this. With regard to solar energy, we have already said a few words today, but I would like to reiterate that in recent years there has been a huge increase in solar energy, and in five years there has been virtually tenfold increase in solar energy. [[17.20]] Our country currently has 3 thousand megawatts of solar power, and until 26, there are more than 5 thousand megawatts. This number is practically increasing daily, and therefore the system will no longer tolerate it. This is why the government decided to temporarily suspend the grid feed-back of new installed domestic-sized solar power plants. Probably, as said at the Government Info Weekend, today will be the day when the government decree will be published, which will contain the details. However, I would also like to note that it is possible to make use of the earlier conditions by 31 October. The government's intention to implement the entire network modernisation programme is to use the RRF loan to do so. But, honourable Member, allow me some thought, because I think that if we are talking about overhead issues and energy, then we cannot go. You called the reduction of the rent that has protected the Hungarians since 2013 a lie, and I think that to date it is exemplary, because this HUF 181 thousand, with which we help families every month, is unique in Europe. Their former sub-group leader, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, demanded that the Russian gas be closed, said that he thought this source should be turned away. The Mayor said: "I am glad that the sanction package was established, and Hungary could not stop it after all. They have an ex-EP representative. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] According to Benedek Jávor, the current sanctions are insufficient, and we need more extensive, comprehensive economic pressure, which also affects energy markets. I think this would be a huge threat for Hungarian families. I ask Congresswoman to accept my answer. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-24-118	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-10-24-119	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer in any way. On the one hand, as far as Paks is concerned, you know perfectly well that Paks II. He won't be able to make it. On the one hand, it has been decided for almost ten years and, in particular, there is still no investment anywhere, and on the other hand, Russia is currently neither technically nor financially in a position to build a nuclear power plant here in Europe. In addition, Paks I., the current power plant's electricity, you said now that it is more favourable than the market price, yet it is given to the public at a market price. In fact, the public is paying a much higher electricity price. I'd really like to know why that is. You are trying to stop the population from being energy independent by all means. They've banned solar power from taking over the grid. You are also blocking the development of wind energy, by the way. It's quite obvious that they're playing quite simply from Putin's sheet music. By the way, this is why the Dialogue suggests, as far as the overhead is concerned, that every family with an average income is given 200,000 forints, because basically, the overhead lies mean that you have skyrocketed the cost of the overhead. Unfortunately, I cannot accept that answer at any level.
u2022-10-24-120	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister, which of our anti-communist demands is the government willing to implement? It's an address. At the request of the Minister for Justice, Judit Varga, who is responsible for the subject, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Répássy Róbert State Secretary. Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2022-10-24-121	Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, And with great respect, I welcome the 1956 freedom fighter, the founding father of the Hungarian Movement, and our friend András Pongrácz, who is now sitting in our box. In the last three decades, the common shame of the MSZP and Fidesz governments is that the past of state security has not yet been established, including the discovery of agent lists, the accountability and banning of party state leaders from public life, the withdrawal of Communist luxury pensions and, in particular, pensions still in many cases after communist medals, and the proper settlement of the pension of political prisoners, and the removal of the Soviet occupation monument in Szabadság tér. These are our demands for the main anti-communist programs of our country, which are also included in our Virradat programme. What is the government willing to do with these? Unfortunately, even the Orbán government could be a member of the former colleague of Péter Medgyessy D-209, agent III/II, János Martonyi, and also of the Fidesz government, and also of the III/II László Tasnádi Minister of State. Despite a number of initiatives by András Schiffer, historians are still unable to search and list the 19th magnetic tape taken by the Information Office. Would the government be willing to unlock the encryptions of the state security past, release the so-called agent lists? It is a great honor for me to present in 2012 together with Mária Wittner our proposal to amend the pension law, which was accepted by the Parliament, and on which we should have withdrawn the pension bonus for communist medals. At the time, I was informed by the Directorate-General for Pension Insurance that about 1200 persons under subject or widow's rights would receive HUF 200 million a year, for example, as a result of the Order of Red Star Merit or the similar medals involved in Armed Fights. Unfortunately, despite the withdrawal law, Minister Tibor Navracsics first completely sabotaged the law, until the deadline no one was denied the pension allowances due to the communist medals, and then, to my repeated request for account, he finally corrected the lawlessness by amending the law that the deadline had been extended. Finally, the government found that 90 percent of pension allowances for the Socialist Country of Merit and similar medals were worthy of paying them decades after the alleged change of regime. Now I'm finally waiting for specific numbers: how many people still get this kind of pension allowance on subject or widow's rights [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How much is this for the budget each year? Thank you for your attention, and thank you for the patience of the 56th. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-24-122	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2022-10-24-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The fourth amendment of the Fundamental Law was incorporated into the Fundamental Law by the Parliament with effect from 25 March 2013. This vote took place on 11 March 2013. Article U of the Fundamental Law states: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Through the first free elections in 1990, the state's establishment based on the rule of law and the pre-communist dictatorship are incompatible. The Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party and its predecessors, as well as other political organisations set up to serve them in the spirit of communist ideology, were criminal organisations, whose leaders were not overdue for maintaining, controlling, violating and betraying the repressive system, for subjugating the democratic attempt of the years following the Second World War on a multi-party basis with Soviet military assistance, for the establishment of a legal order based on exclusive power and lawlessness, for the liquidation of the economy based on the freedom of property and for the indebting of the country, for the illegal imprisonment of Hungary's economy, defence, diplomacy and human resources under foreign interests, for the systematic destruction of the values of the European civilisation tradition, for the arbitrary destruction of citizens' and for the restriction of their rights to their fundamental human rights, and for the serious restriction of their rights, in particular for the murder of persons, for the provision of foreign power, for the illegal imprisonment of the Hungarian law, for the detention, for the carriage of such acts, for the torture, the inhuman treatment of citizens, for the arbitrary treatment of their property, for the arbitrary and for the restriction of their rights, for the restriction of their rights, for the protection of their rights, for the protection of persons, for the protection of their rights, for the protection and for the protection of the protection of the protection of the right of the protection of the protection of the protection of the right of the right of the right of the right to the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right to the right of the right of the right of the public, the right to the right to the public, the right to the right of the right to the right to the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right to the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the public, the public, the right of the right of the right of the right of the public, the public, the public, for the right of the public, the public, for the public, for the right of the right to the right to the right to the right of the right of the right of the public, the right of the right of the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right of the right to the right to the right to the right to the During the democratic transition, political organizations, as successors to the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party, also share the responsibility of their predecessors as heirs of illegally accumulated wealth. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[17 .30]] Pursuant to paragraph 5 the statutory pension or other benefits granted by the State to the leaders of the Communist dictatorship may be reduced to the extent laid down by law. The proceeds from this should be used, as laid down by law, to alleviate the harm caused by the Communist dictatorship and to cherish the memory of the victims. Honourable Congressman, You didn't vote for that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-10-24-125	Mr. Secretary. You shouldn't ask for a word to read pathetic preambles here instead of answering the question. It is natural that I did not vote for the Fundamental Law, the same one-party Fundamental Law, in place of the cancerist constitution, for a number of reasons. But that is not the issue on the agenda right now, and the question here is why, for example, our proposal to amend the pension law with Mária Wittner is not being implemented. Now, not only is it sabotaged, but they also encrypt how many Communist medals there are still pension replacements, how many people receive pension replacements on the subject or widow's rights. So the bullshit, the extra action they're doing is amazing. Or that the secretary of state sitting next to you in his Péter Mansfeld T-shirt... is remembered in an extremely Pharisee manner, while the blood prosecutor who requested a death sentence on Péter Mansfeld has been receiving in your system hundreds of thousands of forints of communist luxury pensions, as you continue to be paid to several other vampires living today, ÁVH interrogators, and you are not even willing to talk about it. This is unacceptable. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] As is the fact that the past of state security and the list of agents are still being encrypted. [[The president's ringing again.]] I'm gonna challenge that on behalf of all the '56 Pest guys! [[Applause from the ranks of our country and the Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-24-126	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Minister of the Interior:. The government is calling the European Union for money to pay the teachers for their work. Which side of the horse are you sitting on? It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2022-10-24-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, When the former Minister of Human Resources was asked about his position on the mindless centralization of education, Minister Zoltán Balog said that we had pushed the bike too far. Yes, it's been pushed over, education is at the top of Fidesz's historical crimes, because you've been destroying schools and education for the past seven years. Of course, centralization is just a power-technical thing, with every decision being made in the district, the leaders, employees, teachers, students and parents of educational institutions being put in a more unworthy position in recent years, so much so that the situation has become untenable. So much so that we are talking about not only unfair situations, but outrageously illegal firings, blackmails, threats, intimidations, all because teachers protest against existential threats with civil disobedience. They had no other means, the government practically made it impossible for them to go free on strike using their fundamental rights. They've reached out to a device that's finally emphasizing to the government that we're way past talking about big trouble. (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) The situation is tragic, perhaps it was recognized in the governing parties, and they began to promise. They promise to raise wages to teachers by admitting that they refuse to give them any money from domestic sources. And the really outrageous thing is that we still have to talk about promises. I am convinced that I would not have to ask these questions if you had acted or acted immediately. But since you do not, please answer the question that if you say that there is a source in the budget for teachers' wages, then why are you speaking in a conditional manner. And why do you expect the solution from the EU? Why don't you talk to the teachers at all? Why are teachers allowed to be fired in Hungary? I look forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2022-10-24-128	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. At the request of Interior Minister Pintér, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2022-10-24-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You said a minute ago that there are not a single fee in the next year's budget for educators' wage increases. Honourable Congressman, Although you did not support next year's budget, this is real, but there is a surplus of HUF 86 billion on the education line, and this is obviously in the overwhelming majority of it precisely as a cover for the January wage increase that we decided on earlier. That's what 86 billion forints are for you, Your Honour. The other part. In general, I would reject you saying that Hungary is looking for money at the European Union. Come on, Congressman, we're not looking, we're not asking, it's our money, it's ours, it's ours, it's ours, it's ours, it's the same as people's wages, or if someone buys something at the store, it's ours. That's what an international contract system says we deserve. It's just that you're trying to stop us from getting to what's ours. Let me give you an example in person, honourable Member. The Hungarian Government is in negotiations with the European Commission, in which we agreed on 17 points as collateral for the disbursement of funds. They do not do this to any other country except Poland and Hungary, but they do so. And we put forward this bill, in which the Hungarian Government agreed with the European Commission. All the words of the European Commission are scriptures and follow them without thinking, but you have not voted for this proposal here in Parliament. Why didn't you? That you have a problem with us is general, and that is why you do not vote for something, but this is a common position with the European Commission, and you have not even voted in favour of what the European Commission has accepted as a common compromise, but it has not been enough for you to vote for it. What does that mean? That it doesn't matter to you whose proposal it is, the Hungarian Government, the European Commission, will do anything to prevent us from getting to it, not even to arrive, because it is supposed to be ours, but will do anything to prevent us from using our own resources, and to do more of it, because you think that the worse the country is, the better the left-wing parties, and therefore prevent us from accessing this resource. For years, this has been hindered by spreading all kinds of untruths about Hungary. Several reports were written in order to prevent Hungary from getting its own resources, but it was not voted here in Parliament, nor when it was an accelerated procedure, nor when it was supposed to vote on an agreement with the Commission itself and press the yes button, honourable Member. You didn't make it either. Then, I don't know how he feels about András Fekete-Győr, who talked about Hungarian schools so lightly that Hungarian schools have a lot of quality, and it's a mess anyway. Is this how you treat all the Hungarian schools, that their quality is bad? And say there's too many of them? Which means maybe you'd rather lock up than improve the quality of these schools? So, Mr President, it stands out that you are not interested in educators, but are trying to make the situation of Hungary as difficult as possible, even by creating a great deal of difficulties for teachers. Instead of helping them, they would go to Brussels and say that this would be the money of teachers in Hungary, Brussels will allow the Hungarian government to give it to teachers. Then what did the PDSZ say about organizing the demonstration to the parties? The parties should stay in the background, not settle for the move, there is a strong grudge against the parties in society. On the other hand, you went there, and since there were no more crowds at your meetings, and there hasn't been any more crowds in recent times, you have gone where the larger crowd is to be able to self-defeat in crowds, as if that crowd had supported your political goals. That crowd supported a very noble goal of raising the wages of teachers, which we also work every day for a teacher's wage increase, and what we have decided is that there will be a double-digit wage increase from 1 January, but we want it to be higher, even higher than the planned one, because we all see [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] how everything costs more in the shops, and how the others' salaries have increased. (The President indicated the end of the time by jogging the bell. ) Please, don't block this, but help me. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-130	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman Antal Csárdi to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-10-24-131	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, His answer is completely unacceptable because he said that there would be a wage increase. Tell me, Secretary of State, how will a junior educator pay his rent this Christmas, how will he put food on the Christmas table? ! Tell me, because of that 200-partisan forint, I'm sure you won't. [[17.40]] Dear Secretary of State, You say that the budget for the following year is HUF 86 billion, that you promised a 10% wage increase. I would like to remind Mr Secretary of State that, at the moment, inflation exceeds 20 percent, food inflation exceeds 30 percent, but there are basic foods that are more expensive than 60 percent. [[Bence Rétvári: Then why didn't you vote?]] You should move now, not 10 percent, not 20 percent, but sit down with the teachers and decide on a fair wage increase, now. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-24-132	Thank you very much. [[Bence Rétvári: Why didn't you vote? Antal Csárdi: Why didn't you answer? Bence Rétvári: You didn't answer. László Szászfalvi: They have received 10 percent this year.]] I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. [[Antal Csárdi keeps interrupting.]] Mr. Antal Csárdi, please give us a moment. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr. Sándor Fazekas, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, How is the establishment of border hunting units progressing? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Fazekas has the floor.
u2022-10-24-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The establishment of border hunting units began in September. In his speech, the Prime Minister, who was present at the first ceremony, stressed that border hunters were performing their service in the interests and defence of the whole country. Indeed, it would be in the interest not only of Hungary, but also of Europe as a whole, for as few people as possible to arrive on the continent who cross borders illegally, secretly or falsely, and who do not respect our culture and laws, and do not want to fit in and just settle down. Western Europe is of a different opinion and pursues other interests. Most of the EU and Member States' measures, although in an indirect way, encourage illegal migration. The data kept being communicated by the police show the extent to which the migratory pressure has increased in recent months at our southern border. Two years ago, on average, 120 people wanted to cross the Hungarian border illegally every day, last year this number rose to 340, and this year twice as many people, on average 700 people, try daily, and there were even more than a thousand people who hit the border. More and more people continue to decide to go to Europe. The activity of smugglers is also growing worryingly, and the war in Ukraine casts a shadow on these processes. Public opinion is not necessarily aware of the seriousness of the situation, since the flood of migrants effectively protects us from our border protection system. Fortunately, the government has taken the necessary steps in time. The training of border hunters is ongoing, and there are reports of significant interest in the service. We trust them and expect their service in order to protect the Schengen border and the security of the Hungarian people. With respect to all this, I ask the Secretary of State: how many border hunters have been on duty? Where and how do they serve? What schedule is the training and entry into service of border hunters? Can any of the previous plans be kept? In what proportion do the applicants meet the recruitment requirements? In short, how is the establishment of border hunting units progressing? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-134	Thank you very much, Congressman Potter. At the request of the Minister of the Interior, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-10-24-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The left has always denied the problem of migration and that the Hungarian border should be protected. It's enough to quote the Dobrev Klára, who said that immigration is a brilliant communication trick, that's what the left-wing Shadow Prime Minister thinks. And her husband, the real leader of the left, said that the government is building on the worst instincts when he wants to build a fence. Gergely Christmas, a former Prime Minister's candidate, also said that the border fence should not be built in any way. This is what they say on the left, and we know that if there was a left-wing turn in Hungary, it would be like in Slovenia, where the new left-wing government announced that the fence would be broken down. We do not want to break down the fence, we want to protect the Hungarian border. This is also necessary because two years ago, in 2020, only 46,000 people were trying to cross the border illegally, 122 thousand people last year, and this year we are far from the end of the year, but the number they tried to cross is now at 225 thousand. So there are at least a thousand people to be detained every day on the Hungarian southern border section, on a rather long Hungarian-Serbian border section, and not without danger, since in 225 cases, protection guards have already been attacked this year, 136 cases of damage to service vehicles have been damaged and 31 attempts have been made to damage the border lock and forcefully break through it. This is why the government has decided to set up border hunting units, a regiment of border hunters, to protect Hungary and the European Union, precisely so that the police could return to the counties where they had served before, and a special, specially trained unit, border hunters, will help protect the southern border within the police's bonds. So far, the police have signed a border hunting contract with about 894 people. It also shows that from week to week there are 100-200 people in four-week training, first week in law enforcement, then there are legal, shooting and border surveillance trainings from week to week. It is necessary to meet serious requirements, on the one hand, physical requirements, running, sitting up, push-ups, on the other hand, there are obviously psychological and mental requirements, and on the other hand there are even very important safety requirements. We saw that there was a smuggling gang who wanted to go undercover with the border hunters himself, but the National Defense Service ruled that out. Obviously they expected that if they could get undercover, they would be able to get through the part where the members of their underworld organization guard the border more easily, but the Hungarian authorities had prevented it, and they could not get across the border in this way, because the person who really wanted to be a smuggler couldn't even begin his training. Therefore, it is important that the protection of the Hungarian border remains secure. Hungary has so far spent 600 billion forints to protect the southern border. We did not get 2 percent of this amount from the European Union. What we see is how different organisations, who say they are human rights organisations, support themselves, how they do it, who actually rent boats or otherwise help illegal migrants enter Europe, but when they should have protected the borders of the Union, they have not yet been paid for by Hungary. Hungary is in debt to the European Union, at least half of this 600 billion HUF should have been paid. We have given this credit to the European Union, this is our common cost, but only Hungary will pay for it, and not only will it not be paid, but the EU funds we receive will not be paid on a political basis either. Obviously, many people would prefer that Hungary join that line, and the Central European countries would join the line that makes migration automatic, and they would say that the resulting public security risk or terrorism is part of the city life, as the Mayor of London said, but we will never let that happen. However, everyone can see that only the national government is a guarantee that the southern border will be protected, and that this new wave of terrible numbers will not sweep through Hungary and Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-136	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman Fazekas to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-10-24-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I thank Mr Secretary of State for the detailed answer and I am pleased that the establishment and uploading of border hunting units are progressing as planned. This is very important because there have been opinions that there may not be enough candidates or that there may not be enough candidates for these assignments. It is fortunate that some take on this difficult but responsible task. I am convinced that Hungary is a democratic rule of law, that everyone must obey the laws, that border crossings and foreigners must respect them, and that the relevant authorities must enforce them. I hereby respectfully accept the answer and hope that the uploading of border hunting units will continue as planned. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-138	Thank you, Congressman Potter. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: "How long can we endure the pressure of smugglers?" It's an address. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor. [[17.50]] (In the notary seat, Dezső the Believer Replaced by Sándor Szabó.)
u2022-10-24-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Every day has been primarily filled with tension from the Russian-Ukrainian war and the resulting energy crisis for several months, but we must not forget for a moment the migratory pressure on Hungary's borders. The construction of the border lock was not only a source of serious anger from illegal immigrants, Brussels and the Hungarian left continue to attack Hungary and the Hungarian people for saying no to immigration. Unfortunately, there has also been a significant increase in the number of crimes committed by migrants in recent years. This year, the number of captured smugglers has reached a record. The rate of smugglers held in domestic prisons is constantly increasing. Traffickers do not shy away from using a variety of means to get illegal immigrants across our borders. Hungary, however, defends its borders undisturbed. It is difficult for smugglers to circumvent the organized border hunting units set up recently by the government. In recent years, many European countries have recognised the importance of defence. It has been proven that fence building is the most effective form and method of border protection. However, it is in vain that we defend the European border and serve Europe's security if the European Union does not contribute to this common burden. Dear Secretary of State, Smuggling people, as we know, is a felony. We also see that, due to the nature of the crimes committed, a convicted prisoner will go to prison for several years, which is a significant financial burden for the Hungarian State. Each spent forint on these prisoners comes from the pockets of Hungarian taxpayers, which represents a significant additional cost for the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian economy. We have made it clear to Brussels on several occasions that Hungary cannot bear these costs on its own. As we know, we have paid for the border fence, and the EU has contributed only 2% to its costs. There are also a number of other costs due to linguistic and cultural differences in illegal border crossings. I am thinking about the costs of providing translation or individual diets. The push for the adoption of the migration pact, which would automate the admission of migrants to Europe, remains on the agenda. I ask, therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, how much longer can we stand the pressure of human smugglers. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-140	Thank you very much, Congressman Szászfalvi. At the request of the Minister of the Interior, we receive the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-10-24-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The increase in the number of smugglers is even more radical than the increase in the number of illegal migrants, and their aggressiveness is increasingly visible. While 455 smugglers were caught by the authorities in 2020, last year 1277. While at the peak of migration in 2015, 1177, this year, although the year is not over, 1572. So there has not been a year in Hungary when as many smugglers were caught as in this year. This is also a huge pressure in Hungarian prisons, as there are more than 2,500 prisoners in Hungarian prisons who are in prison for smuggling people. This is now much more than 10 percent of the Hungarian prisons. This means that four ordinary Hungarian prisons, if projected in proportion, could be filled with almost only human smugglers. They are obviously in a proportionate number of prisons, but four prisons of capacity are consumed in Hungary by the fact that we are protecting Europe's common border. What is extra for Hungary in this regard is enormous. As you have pointed out, the costs of interpretation, diet, special habits, cultural differences, all of which must be dealt with, this is all an additional burden in the Hungarian prison. In addition, the interpretation cost is tens of millions forints. The penalty for a human smuggler is four to five years, which means that it costs Hungarian taxpayers 5 million forints. The additional costs that Hungary spends on prisons because of human smugglers correspond to at least HUF 3 billion a year, and we pay for this, while we protect the common border of the European Union and hold criminals who have violated the EU's borders and the interests of the Union. Therefore, it would be justified that this cost should not be borne exclusively by Hungary. It's become very automated, it's become a business-like smuggling, it's constantly developing methods. There are times when smugglers organize illegal migrants into groups of 30-50 people, at the same time starting them at different stages of the border, hoping that when one or the other team is stopped by border hunters, policemen, soldiers, the other teams can get through. You can see the organization. It is clear that there will also be armed strikes here. At the open house, we know what's going on, and there's guns fired, there's a lot of people hurt, and one person is dead because people smugglers split up the market among themselves. One of the immigrants told us, but any of them could have told us how the system works: we bought SIM cards in our phones because they give us instructions. They'll tell us when to head for the border. They're checking to see if the money they're sending from home has arrived, and then they're gonna help us cross the fence. It's a huge illegal business for a lot of people. Hungary is taking action against this, but the European Union is not helping either. Even the Poles did not call Frontex for certain border sections, because Frontex did not help the European Member States to stop illegal migrants from coming in, but after a single attack, Frontex's people called for migrant rights from border guards who were protecting the border and complying with the laws in other countries. Therefore, they prefer to stay away, because they did not help in the detention of the border, but only bound that everywhere, every step of the way was exactly in line with the different requirements, and that the law of the law was not violated somewhere. For this reason, Frontex took out the law-abiding and law-abiding. That's an unacceptable attitude. Just as the Hungarian left does when he says, let's say, Bence Tordai, that the Hungarian fence is pointless, inhumane and wastefully expensive, as everyone attacked from Klára Dobrev to Ágnes Kunhalmi when we built it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Szászfalvi to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-10-24-143	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I think we need to say it over and over again, because maybe it hasn't come to the public that both illegal border crossings are included, of course, in that term, and smuggling is a crime. It is not only a crime in Hungary, but it is a crime throughout the European Union, in all the rule of law. I think that Hungary has done everything in recent years and has taken every opportunity and even set an example not only for its own protection but also for the protection of the borders of the European Union. On this basis, the European Union should pay at least 50% of the cost of border protection immediately, as this is due to us. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply, which I accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-144	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Why not withdraw the seven-fold increase in gas prices after a drastic reduction in the global gas prices? It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2022-10-24-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let's see the situation. Shortly after the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Moscow thanked Gazprom for the expensive gas, the news came that the price of gas had fallen to more than one year on the Dutch stock market. The so-called gas spot price dropped to EUR 57 per megawatt hour last week, by the way, but when you bought, you actually bought the gas at five times the price. Compared to this, one would think that the government that sells gas at market prices would announce that it has good news, because if it drops, it can give people cheaper and thus withdraw the seven-fold increase in gas prices. But that's not what you're doing. What's the solution to that? There are practically two rational explanations, and I would like to draw your attention to that. One is that Viktor Orbán has signed a gas contract with Vladimir Putin that the world market price does not affect the price at which our country receives gas. [[18.00]] We do not know that this is true, you have been hiding from us for years how much they buy and exactly what conditions our country's independence was sold to Vladimir Putin, but perhaps the Secretary of State will betray it. We don't even know what the Secretary of State has committed in exchange for the good friendship he received from the Secretary of State, by the way. Another possible reason is that, in fact, the game has long been played here in their overhead era to enrich the Fidesz moonyard. You've been rich on Chinese vaccines, respirators, settlement bonds. Well, why shouldn't the debt crisis be one of those? Why shouldn't that be an exception? You have seen this opportunity. In recent years, Lőrinc Mészáros has acquired, for example, the East-Hungarian electricity supplier, and has also purchased Tigáz, so every second Hungarian is now paying a system usage fee for natural gas. We were still a long way from the government's overhead increase, when Lőrinc Mészáros gave the same reduced gas to 8 thousand HUF more expensive than other providers. If we ask you the riddle of what will happen if the world market price of gas is reduced, while Lőrinc Mészáros continues to give gas at seven times the price, then the answer is clear: very large wealth, profit. In this sense, I have given you this assistance, but I will continue to ask: why not withdraw the seven-fold increase in gas prices in the event of a drastic decline in the global price of gas? Is it because they signed for Putin or because they're doing a fideous ruckus? Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-10-24-146	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. At the request of the Secretary of State, Tamás Menczer will respond.
u2022-10-24-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Then let's clean up this mess, which you've been kind enough to draw here. [[László Varju:...what did they do...]] First of all, let's be clear that you're lying. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Yay! László Varju: And you're telling the truth, aren't you?]] We know that members of the Gyurcsány Party and their people are not really disturbed by the facts. Their boss told me, I mean, Ferenc Gyurcsány, that we lied at night and in the morning and at night. You can add only that this is true by the afternoon, although we are slowly moving into the evening. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: So pathetic!]] The overhead and energy prices are expensive, and there's a lot of money to be paid for. [[László Varju intervenes.]] This is because of the sanctions, honourable Member, but even in these circumstances, when energy prices are high throughout Europe and they are gone because of the failed sanctions policy, what you are saying is true. The opposite is true: electricity and gas must be paid the least in Hungary in the European Union, even if you look at the absolute order, and even if you look at the price on a purchasing power basis. [[László Varju keeps interrupting.]] And the reason for this is that the Hungarian government provides HUF 181 thousand per family and monthly support, which will be paid in proportion to... Congressman, I've listened to it, and believe me, it hasn't been easy. [[László Varju: Why don't you give it cheaper if it's cheaper...]] The Hungarian government provides the largest support in the European Union in proportion to payment, with approximately 30% support. In Germany, this ratio is about 20 percent, in Austria it is 6 percent, so we provide the highest level of support in proportion to salary. [[László Varju: 57 euros...]] But once again, there is a lot to pay for energy everywhere, energy prices are extremely high, they're in heaven; we're paying a penalty premium for a failed policy. But since you mentioned the price of gas, I have August statistics in my hand: you say that the double in Warsaw compared to Budapest, the 2.5 times in Bucharest, the 4.5 times in Paris, 8 times in Prague, 8 times in Vienna, 9 times in Berlin, this was the August price compared to Hungary, so it was many times everywhere. But if you're looking for a cheaper price [[Laszlo Varju: Finally!]] Honourable Member, let's get to the point that your boss said to cut the rent: that's stupid. [[Laszlo Varju: Oh!]] This is stupid. And he also said, I quote Ference Gyurcsány: I do not agree with the reduction of the rent, it will destroy us, even if it is a popular thing today that your boss said about reducing the rent. You want a cheaper price, you want a lower price [[László Varju: Minister of State 57 euros...]] When your boss wipes out the existing funding, that's the truth. [[László Varju: Cheaper price, that's right.]] And one more thing, Your Honour, I still have time for this. You have formed a magnificent shadow government, a shadow foreign minister named Sándor Rónai. There are three things to know about this good gentleman, Congressman. The first is that he's a pro-war man, because he wants us to deliver weapons. [[László Varju and Gy. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] the war conflict, and we know that whoever carries weapons is already in the war with one foot. But we also know about your Shadow Foreign Minister, I see that you are disturbed by what I am saying, but it is still true, and we also know that your Shadow Foreign Minister said on ATV: sanctions are good and work, and Hungary should support them and introduce them. So a pro-sanctioned politician is your shadow foreign minister or your entire party is pro-sanction. You are in favour of sanctions [[Laszlo Varju: No! Viktor Orbán.... He voted for it...]] and sanctions are ruining the European economy and ruining and endangering the Hungarian economy. If the Hungarian government hadn't fought against them [[László Varju: Viktor Orbán voted...]] the Hungarian economy would also be devastated by sanctions. We are currently paying a penalty premium or suffering penalty inflation. [[László Varju: Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister...]] And your Shadow Foreign Minister would also stop the Paks expansion, even though without Paks, there is no energy security. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In Hungary, and there is no cheaper electricity in Europe. That's the thing about you, you're lying right now. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-24-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman László Varju to accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[Tamás Menczer: I hope so!]]
u2022-10-24-149	Well, let's start by recording that I don't accept your answer, just like you started because you're lying. What you just said was that we're paying a premium, by the way, who's the reason? It's about Viktor Orbán. Think of him when he voted for all of them, and they're all like that; that's why you're giving it so expensive, by the way. In the meantime, they have an extra HUF 1170 billion in debt, which is taken only from the general sales tax, and you still give people expensive gas. Hungary's only hope is that the Shadow Government's substantive proposals will be followed and the regime will be introduced in this way, the system usage fee will be frozen, the amount of energy provided at a reduced rate will be doubled and the VAT on energy will be reduced. Now, that's your job. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-10-24-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. That concludes this agenda. Dear Parliament, Lot. Erzsébet Németh, representative of DK, wants to ask an immediate question to the minister responsible for nationality policy, church policy and ecclesiastical diplomacy: It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész asked for an answer. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding.
u2022-10-24-151	Yeah.
u2022-10-24-152	It says yes. You have the floor, dear Congresswoman.
u2022-10-24-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I asked the Prime Minister with a written question about NGOs supporting people with disabilities, because they are not subject to preferential public energy prices, even though they will not be able to pay for the energy billed at multiple prices. If the people they care for use this energy, who are not forced to live in such homes, live at home in their own homes, they would be subject to this reduced price, so they are actually punished by the government because of their disability. By the way, the Secretary of State Rétvári spoke in favour of this written question with impertinence beyond his usual standards. The point is that you refuse to give these civil society organisations a discount. [[18.10]] This is all the more unfair, because with a recent government decree, church-owned buildings for permanent residence are given this discount. Of course, it would be okay if this were applicable to all non-profit organisations, but it is incomprehensible why only the churches would receive the benefit which, I think, should also apply to civil society organisations taking over the state task. In your reply, please spare us the usual propaganda that we want to abolish preferential energy prices, that the causes of the problems are the sanctions voted by the Prime Minister and that Brussels is not paying the subsidies because of us. Let us also leave the children's tale of 181,000 forints a month to households, which is exactly that because you have imposed a seven-time gas price, but if you had determined ten times that, you would now be talking about 260,000 forints a month. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-24-154	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2022-10-24-155	If you accused the Secretary of State of impertinence, then it's likely you'll accuse me of that, too. Then let's stick to the facts that, at the time when they were ruling, what they did not do for people with disabilities and what they should have done. First of all, what is important to stress is that you were the ones who took their 13th month's wages. At that time, I did not hear any left-wing congressman complain, even accuse anyone else of being impertinent, who asked the question, but you listened. When you were in government, you listened when we asked to help as many people with disabilities as possible in home care. You have refused to vote for this in recent years and have even taken measures that have further affected the existence of these institutions and home care in all areas. They hit it with the fact that we have raised the overhead prices to multiple times during your administration, and now you are calling this government to account for it, which is taking the many, many steps to introduce an energy price stop for families, to support the institutions that we support home care, and thus, for example, to increase the cost of home care for family members. And just so you understand: we have discussed with others, we are likely to have the result of negotiations in other social areas, not just as it was in your time. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-156	A return answer is given to Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh.
u2022-10-24-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, but I wouldn't consider you impertinent, I would consider you a disgrace. After 12 years of government, do you have the nerve to talk about what happened in this country 12 years ago? ! Shouldn't we be talking about the fact that, because of the sevenfold increase in gas prices, they simply refuse to support civil society organisations in some form who provide housing for people with disabilities? You know, Mr. Secretary, this is not the family, but these are residential homes where these people will live for the rest of their lives, and where now the organizations that provide them will be unable to pay for the gas price you have increased by seven times. These are what we should be talking about, Mr Secretary, and I think if that's all the answer to what happened before 2010, it's quite simply shameful.
u2022-10-24-158	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Soltés.
u2022-10-24-159	Dear Shadow Minister, You are stuck in the pre-2010 period, even because you are not living with a disability, but with a disability, at least that's what you will learn if you want to deal with this area. The second is that if you want to deal with this area, then there must be a comparison between the government activities of the last 10 to 12 years and your government activities. You've strangled these organizations, you've destroyed families who care for children, elderly people, relatives in this area. After you go out to Brussels and act against Hungary everywhere, you will do everything you can to ensure that the rightful subsidies for Hungary do not arrive, and you will do everything in your power to destroy Hungary's budget and to overthrow the government, and then you will stand up and give such a speech. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Their attitude towards people with disabilities and the whole nation is totally unacceptable. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-160	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congresswoman. [[For signal:]] Yeah, you don't? Then you'll tell me some other time. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: You're welcome, Mr President, because I have more to say to the Secretary of State.]] Then you'll tell me some other time. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Commissioner Dezső, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry an immediate question:. Why do they do it? It's an address. Due to the absence of the Minister, Minister Zsófia Koncz asked for a reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[He's gullible for Dezső's signal:]] Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2022-10-24-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Newly installed, household-sized, network-reinforced solar power plants are a very important issue. You may have experienced this because you have been approached on this issue once today, but it is important not only because it is important to us politicians, but because it is very important to people. And what you have spoken about in this case will, in my opinion, be taught, not as a good example, because, if you think about it, you've been misrepresenting in the last few weeks, you've been involved in completely pointless lies. I rarely saw such an unthinkable and controversial media show. Frankly, I've been thinking about how you guys talk to each other. But let's see what's real. Ad: Hungary is the last place in electricity production in the European Union, so we need 40 percent of imports at brutal prices of 300-400 HUF per kilowatt hour. Give me two, we have a decade behind on the solar market, and not just because you're dealing with Paks, because you don't care about that. For several years, power plants at commercial level have been blocked, without access permits. Add four: SMEs are out of line by imposing huge battery storage requirements on them. And for the last time, they have made the most cheap energy available in households by using solar panels. Please answer me why you are doing this, that all solar energy production has practically been eradicated, and it is impossible for this to work in Hungary.
u2022-10-24-162	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-10-24-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, With regard to solar energy, it is very important to point out that this government has considered it important, in recent times, to have as many solar cells as possible in our country, that it has practically increased tenfold over five years. We have talked a lot about the fact that we currently have a solar capacity of 3 thousand megawatts, and until 2026 there are more than 5 thousand megawatts, but the flexibility of the electricity grid is a very important aspect, and the implementation of these investments is a key issue. This is why it was decided to temporarily suspend the network feed-back of new installed household-sized solar power plants, but it is expected that today, as I have already said, will have detailed rules in this regard and that demand can be surrendered by 31 October. [[18.20]] However, in this connection, I would also like to point out that, while you are concerned about solar energy, energy independence and energy issues at home, in Brussels, left-wing MEPs are in favour of a decision requiring the introduction of a new sanctioning price cap for the transport of gas arriving on the pipeline, and they are calling for an immediate embargo on energy imported from Russia. I think that the most important thing in the current situation is that Hungarian families, Hungarian businesses, should have enough natural gas, sufficient energy. On these issues, it would be more important to have a cooperation and a common thinking, and it would be very good if what they say at home were in line with what they represent in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-164	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Reliable Congressman Dezső, a rejoinder from the notary.
u2022-10-24-165	Thank you very much. It's not acceptable to me, because we're thinking on a completely different level. I would like the Hungarian families to be able to generate energy here in Hungary, and you are constantly talking about the need to conclude contracts with the Russians. Currently, more than 40% of the energy to be used is imported from abroad. Why not support Hungarian businesses? Small and medium-sized enterprises are lining up, production plants are lining up to take care of their own power supply when a plant is set up, but you're making it impossible. You are having an argument not with me, but with the entire Hungarian profession and Hungarian people.
u2022-10-24-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Madam Secretary of State will be rejoined.
u2022-10-24-167	Thank you very much. I think that this government has clearly done everything in its power to expand solar panels in recent years. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Paks II should not have been so opposed in the past, since it would be helpful for Hungarian families to have Paks II. It'll work. And I would also like to say that it is terrible for the MSZP to listen to this because they have indeed raised the price of energy fifteen times, practically squandered public wealth, handed over energy suppliers abroad. Let me also talk about storage of natural gas: it has already been said today that you attacked the decision when we bought back the natural gas reservoirs. I ask the Member to look at Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses in these situations; that is what we always do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-168	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Please respond, Prime Minister. It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the Momentum Group said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer in the hour of the third immediate questions due to his absence. We now have a representative of the Momentum fraction who would like to ask the next question. Endre Tóth, representative of the Momentum, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What does the order planned by the Minister of the Interior look like in education? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári asked for an answer because of his absence. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2022-10-24-169	Yeah, well, I don't think so.
u2022-10-24-170	Then it's up to you, Congressman. [[Defiance.]]
u2022-10-24-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary, I see you're back on your boss's side again. Come on, tell me where Sándor Pintér is right now. Why have you been hiding from the public for months? Don't you have anything to say? Or are you afraid to stand up in front of people? The last time he spoke about education in his introduction speech, he meditated on the importance of order. So I ask you, is this what the order designed by Sándor Pintér in education looks like? Humiliating salaries, 16,000 missing teachers, 18-degree students, unteachable textbooks, constant threats and fired teachers? We don't see order, Mr. Secretary, but we see increasing tension and unsolved problems. And we see 80,000 protesters demanding change in education. It's time for them to finally admit that their education government has failed. Because even though they're trying to turn the EU into a scapegoat again, no one's gonna buy that. And even if they fire protesting teachers, five times as many will take their place. Because dissatisfaction can't be fired, and low-level teachers' salaries can't be encrypted for ten years. Don't make Sándor Pintér want to be a frivolous educator, enough with the fear. In education, it simply doesn't work. School is not a kind of prison where hard work can be used to gain prestige, but with honesty and responsibility. Secretary of State, if your boss doesn't do it, at least take responsibility for education. Tell me what your plans are for the renewal of this sector. Confess: what do you plan to do with nearly a thousand civil disobedience educators? Do you want to fire them, too? Answer the protesters' demands. Will they restore the right to strike? Is there going to be a substantial wage arrangement? Are they reducing the workload and the amount of teaching material? You guys gonna sit down and talk to the people in your education? I know you like to avoid questions, but let us be clear: these are questions that I am asking not only, but 80,000 protestors and Hungarian citizens who are worried about millions of education. Does he not consider them worthy of a straight answer? [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-10-24-172	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-10-24-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'd be happy if you could explain to me a sentence from your former party leader, former group leader, what you said in the election campaign. It is not the respect for teachers and the appreciation for Hungarian education that comes from the fact that András Fekete-Győr said that we have an immense number of schools and that they have a very poor quality. So too much school and bad, to put it simply, only he said it even more colorful. Is this the respect for Hungarian teachers? That you have to eliminate, especially in the country, a lot of schools? Student Olympics are won by Hungarian students. If you compare the last two PISA measurements, you can see they're coming up nicely. If you look at the TIMSS results: in three out of four we are well above the average of the European Union and the measured countries, in some cases we are also ahead of Finland, and in many cases we are at the level of Germany, and do you just think that this is a Ramaty? This is your respect for teachers, can we find this in the word of the Ramaty? Now, of course, they go everywhere, self-defeating and taking pictures, because there aren't many people at your meetings. They are therefore going to the teacher's demonstration, whose legitimate goal is to raise the wages of teachers. That's what we want. You did not vote for it, but we voted for 86 billion surplus in the next year's budget to make sure that most of it will be spent on educators' wages, and then we would like to add more from EU funds to make the wage increase even higher. But it's only important for you when you can go outside and take a picture, like you're in a crowd, like you're being supported by these people. I'm sure there are those who support you, some who support Jobbik, some who are fidesz, and some of them are Christian Democrats, but this is not a party move. Even on his political side, Balázs Ander says that settling on him as a leech and expropriating the party-independent protest wave of teachers and students is more than counterproductive, honourable Member. Or even the PDSZ said that the parties should stay behind, not settle for action, because there is a strong grudge against the parties in society. On the other hand, you have done exactly the opposite. Wouldn't the respect have been if they hadn't really moved on to these moves? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-174	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Endre Tóth.
u2022-10-24-175	Mr. Secretary, you've been misbehavioring me again. If Péter Mansfeld on his T-shirt were still alive, he would have you take off this piece of clothing, as you are a representative of a government that depraved into the last European henchman of the Russian aggressor, and which passed through the complete destruction of Hungarian education. I suggest you borrow from your Italian friend Matteo Salvini his Putin T-shirt, which is much better suited to your policy. Since you still do not want to hear the demands of the protesters, you continue to ignore them, I would like to ask you two simple questions that will at least reveal what kind of moral standards the Ministry of Home Affairs is in directing education. 1. Do you consider the dismissal of three other teachers of Tamás Palya, Katalin Törley and Ferenc Kölcsey High School to be justified and proportionate? 2. Do you support the portfolio of Marosi Beatrix's district director to continue his management activities after he turned out to have plagiarized in his thesis? You're gonna relieve him of his position if the charges are officially confirmed? I'm waiting for your answers.
u2022-10-24-176	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State. [[18.30]]
u2022-10-24-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I don't know, it could take a minute. Péter Mansfeld doesn't live because those who ran Hungary from the tiny villa in the '50s wanted to make examples with him, and Vladimir Putin was in a private apartment in Hungary, in the tiny villa, invited by one man, Ferenc Gyurcsány and Klára Dobrev [[Endre Tóth intervenes.]] a man spoke to her in her mother tongue, and her husband was proud of it. [[Miklós Soltész intervenes.]] This is your shadow minister, Klara Dobrev. Don't say such things to us, because if anyone was still worried that Toto was a dog when he licked Putin's face so that he wouldn't be offended by the president, and in the tiny mansion from which they decided to execute Péter Mansfeld and his associates, they changed the draft, the upholstery on the couch, and they repainted the room so that President Putin would enjoy himself in the tiny mansion, perhaps you wouldn't put your poo on it, Mr. Congressman. We represent the Hungarian national interest, with whom we are together, and against whom we are opposed. It's in our national interest. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] To raise the wages of Hungarian teachers, and you did not vote for this either here or in Brussels to get closer to these sources (the president bell rings). And let's put hundreds of billions of forints on this. If you're really brave...
u2022-10-24-178	Thank you...
u2022-10-24-179	...go to Brussels and tell those bureaucrats over there...
u2022-10-24-180	Thank you very much...
u2022-10-24-181	...so that Hungary can finally have access to the money it can spend on raising the wages of teachers. It's worth more to educators. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Like any selfie. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács and Dániel Z. Kárpát, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the leader of the Jobbik faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so the Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions due to his absence. We now have a representative of the Jobbik faction who wants to ask the next question, none other than Dániel Z. Carpathian representative of Jobbik, who wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: In response to the Prime Minister's personal absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, was entitled to reply. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2022-10-24-183	Mr President, Dear House, In April 2010, 266 forints had to be given for one euro. In recent weeks, this has gone up to HUF 420, so we can see that during 12 years of government in Orbán, the purchasing power of the Hungarian national currency has been amazingly weakened, and when we account for this on the government, they usually point out to the Hungarian National Bank that they are the ones who can do something about it. When I ask the Hungarian National Bank, what do you say? That, well, we, please, have no interest in the exchange rate. The question therefore arises: why does the Government of Hungary not include in the Hungarian National Bank Act the exchange rate target of the Hungarian National Bank, protect the purchasing value of the national currency? They cannot explain to me in any way that it would be justified to reach 420 from the rate of 266 forints, and please do not come with the war and sanctions policy, because before the war, the euro rate was above 367 forints, so even at that moment, before the war started, they were able to make more than 100 forints worse than the euro in just over ten years. At the same time, we see that vegetables, fruit, baby food, children's clothing, all kinds of goods are significantly more expensive than the imagined price at the normal exchange rate, so you are knocking down a kind of special tax on Hungarian people on a consciously weakened, consciously weakened forint for the sake of multi-business companies, but yet throwing hot potatoes is the most annoying, it is that a government claiming to be national says that it does not have an exchange rate goal. The Hungarian National Bank says the same thing. If everyone is directing responsibility, why do they not commit to it, and why do they not include in the law concerned that we do have an exchange rate target, and it is indeed a national interest to protect the value of the national currency? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-24-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Prime Minister of Gergely Gulyás.
u2022-10-24-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To the question of the Member, why the exchange rate of the forint is exactly where it is, I can say what we have already said several times, that, after Hungary had used around 3 percent of its import expenditure to purchase raw materials, so it was mainly for the purchase of oil and gas, and now it has increased to 25 percent, there is obviously an increase in foreign exchange demand, and this weakens the exchange rate. The sanctions and war were the biggest step in this, but the increase in oil prices and gas prices had already started in the second half of 21 or at the end of 21; accordingly, the exchange rate of the forint was weakened. We have repeatedly said that, of course, it is in the interest of both the National Bank and the Hungarian Government, and as much as sovereign monetary policy allows, we are working together to ensure that the forint is stable and that there can be as little hectic exchange rate movement as possible. But it must be noted that there is no government that can destroy or undo the consequences of paying 10-15 times as much gas as it had to. A responsible government can do one thing, and we did it. Your left-wing allies have left the country with 1 million 100 thousand foreign currency loans. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] , 1 million 100 thousand; since this is no longer the case today, the exchange rate movement today is significantly less painful for Hungarian society and Hungarian families than it was painful for your main ally, Ferenc Gyurcsány, during the administration of the government. Therefore, although it is not good to have such a hectic exchange rate, it would be better if the forint were stronger, but as long as the raw material can be obtained at such an amazing price and this increases the import exposure, it has a negative impact on the exchange rate. We hope that this condition will not last forever, so let us say that the sooner the war is over, the sooner the energy sanctions are completed, the better we are, and the better the Hungarian exchange rate, the Hungarian forint exchange rate, will be. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-186	Thank you very much, Minister. You have the opportunity to reply back to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2022-10-24-187	Mr. Secretary. The Minister didn't even try to explain why the forint is weakening more than the currency of the countries in war is quite amazing! Nor did he reply that he dared to write such a thing into the law concerned; obviously they would not dare, because then it would be in national interest, not in the interests of your true allies, the interests of the multinational companies. But they also have an ally, the banking system, that they've made a deal with to betray foreign exchange credentials, which proves that over 20,000 evictions. [[To Gergely Gulyás:]] Don't laugh at it because it's not funny at all. If you have the courage and the public financial chapter of the Fundamental Law, in which you have written that public debt cannot increase more than a certain degree, I call on you to write in the Fundamental Law that the Hungarian national currency cannot lose more of its value than at a certain level during the period concerned. I will make the motion for this, and you will then vote on your willingness to defend the purchasing power of the national currency, or not the last 10 to 12 years will prove that it is not. I therefore call on you to finally replace banks and multi-businesses [[The president's ringing the bell.]] stand on the side of the Hungarian people. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-24-188	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2022-10-24-189	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Member did not attempt to understand my answer, although what he then raised, I must admit that he really had little chance of doing so. I understand that Jobbik expected more and a larger faction from the collaboration with Ferenc Gyurcsány, and with so few remaining, an economist is not near the faction, but the fact that the faction support is generous enough now to perhaps employ one or two economists, and if you can find someone who is willing to work for you as an economist, then you can explain your opinion by submitting a parliamentary resolution, bill, how much the forint's exchange rate should be, and the National Assembly will vote for it. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Try to answer me instead!]] Make him know this, and I will not ask him to share his opinion with us in public afterwards. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Be cynical if you understand what has been said, but you do not understand. You can't help it.]] It's enough if you consider it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So my request is that an economist be near Jobbik. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Wow, you are weak!]]
u2022-10-24-190	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, András Imre Jámbor, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Why? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman András Imre Jámbor.
u2022-10-24-191	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, You said in the campaign that there would be no cuts and that there would be no increase in the overhead. According to Intrum's research institute, 3.9 percent of households, 161 thousand households, are at risk of indulging due to the increase in overhead costs, and 7.5 percent more severely, and 10.5 percent, respectively, are slightly at risk. [[18.40]] In April, the average gross salary was 507,500 forints, now reduced to 497 200 forints. Inflation is above 20% and food inflation is even higher. While at the beginning of last year, the number of people out of social security was officially 55,000, this number is now 141 thousand people. Social security doesn't increase, so you'll have to pay 15 percent more on social security next year than you did this year. The fact is, there are hundreds of thousands of people who are going to be in a lot of trouble in the coming months, and millions of people's standard of living is going to be worse than it was a few weeks or a few months ago. So far, the social law stated that the individual, the local government, the charitable organisations, the state and the family of the individual are responsible for helping people in distress in the community. You are introducing a hierarchy here, which ends with the state helping those in need, those in trouble, as an exception. All this in a crisis in which hundreds of thousands of people, as I mentioned, are in the situation of bankruptcy for their families. My question is why you plan to amend this social law, how you can set up such a hierarchy in a crisis, and how you can do that, in essence, you write into the social law that the state only needs to help those in distress in exceptional cases. Thank you.
u2022-10-24-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2022-10-24-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that if you look at this year's budget, look at next year's budget and look at the 2010 budget, you will find that the accusation you have made against the government is not thorough, since in 2010 you spent HUF 340 billion on social services, this year's budget is HUF 1140 billion and next year's budget is HUF 1300 billion. It is clear that this has increased, not only in terms of inflation, but also in terms of real value, to a multiple of the previous amount. Therefore, I think it is unfair here to accuse the government of having no social sensitivity. This is particularly unfair if you go to any foreign country if you have already put up international examples and ask how the retail rent has grown in recent months, you can see that everywhere is radically and brutally. Hungary has launched by far the largest support programme to protect the result of the reduction of electricity so far, and this is why we can say today that 75 percent of society is not affected by the radical increase in overhead prices or, at least, in purchasing, gas and oil prices. This is the greatest achievement that the country has achieved in Europe. We are also trying to launch support projects that are capable of protecting jobs, because social care is extremely important, there are many who can really only be helped through social care. The government considers this task important, as is apparent from the budget figures, but most importantly, to whom we can give a chance, an opportunity, a job, a job or a job. That's why we've done everything we can, which is why we're going to do everything we can in the coming weeks and months. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-194	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, A one-minute rejoinder is due, Congressman.
u2022-10-24-195	Thank you very much. It is very good that these amounts are always reported nominally, but we are now spending less on social care, education and health than in 2010, so we are not sure that these are the right figures. What you have said about the growth of social aid from this year to next year, if you look at those figures, it is not an increase above inflation, but during inflation, while Mr Retvári, State Secretary, we have already discussed the brutal problems faced by social institutions, and that apparently church institutions have been taken care of, but many of the civil and municipal institutions are threatened with closure. But you didn't answer the question as to why the social law is being revised again and why such a hierarchy is being set up, what is necessary is that if nothing changes, what you want to express in this law, why say in a crisis that it is only in an exceptional situation that the state has to intervene. There is another amendment in this law, the old-age pension minimum and the social projection fund are separated, i.e. a social projection fund is created. The minimum old-age pension is subject to 18 benefits. The fact is, then, that you do not want to raise the minimum retirement pension or you do not want to increase these benefits in a crisis. Thank you.
u2022-10-24-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary Gergely Gulyás.
u2022-10-24-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It will be difficult to sum up in a minute what would be justified as a reaction after Mr President's speech, but I would just like to draw attention quickly to a brief mathematical fact. As far as I know, if we accept what we accept every year, that the central bank is forecasting inflation, the central bank is now indicating 13.5 percent inflation in advance for this year. Compared to this, the increase from 1140 billion to 1300 billion is more than 13.5 percent. Thus, even the claim that social security support in the budget would not increase in inflation next year is not in line with the reality. Not to mention that if you have been a Member since 2010, your claim can only be credible if you claim that Hungarian GDP has increased fourfold. Although Hungary's GDP has increased more than ever, it has been the best decade of Hungary in terms of GDP in the last century, but I consider the compliment that you allowed the government to increase fourfold. Give the government a little more restraint, that's my request. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-198	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Előd Novák and László Toroczkai, representatives of Mi Hazank, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Will there be a turn or will we run towards our loss?" It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the leader of the Jobbik faction... The leader of the Jobbik faction? [[Dr. István Apáti: Even the assumption is terrible!]] This is wrong. Not our country? [[It's embarrassing.]] I'm sorry, the line's wrong. I would like to correct this: I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the Group of Mi Hazánk has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so the Prime Minister must answer in the hour of the third immediate questions due to his absence. We now have a representative of the Mi Hazan faction who wants to ask the next question, who is none other than the representative of the Mi Hazan, who wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister for National Policy, Nationality Policy, Church Policy and Church Diplomacy:. When will they stand on their heels? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2022-10-24-199	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for Deputy Prime Minister.
u2022-10-24-200	Okay, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr.Zsófia Koncz authorised the Secretary of State to reply. I ask Mr Abbot to accept the person of the response.
u2022-10-24-201	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2022-10-24-202	He says he'll take it. Then you have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-24-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Madam Deputy Minister, You are one of them, if not the most important election promises, when the reduction was interrupted, and as a result, from August 1 you will have to pay 65 HUF for a kilowattory of electricity and 747 HUF for a cubic meter of gas. In such a situation, the main escape route was the installation of solar systems with different performances for Hungarian people, especially Hungarian families and households. A great deal of demand has been received by the service providers since 1 August, but then Minister Gulyás appeared unexpectedly, but with greater momentum, and, to put it mildly, he has damaged the normal functioning of the fan. His statements have caused great outrage and severe opposition, as you are virtually modern and, in addition, extremely modern, you could say, bomb and destroy the military route, which is reported by installing ultramodern solar systems, since by eliminating the re-enrichment option, you have to expect virtually such a long-term return that it will make no sense to install solar systems. [[18.50]] Let me give you some data. For the 300 and 550 HUF electricity to be paid by entrepreneurs, the return would have been reduced to one or two years. In the case of an average household, a solar system would have recovered in five to six years and this period would have been shortened due to the current increase in overhead costs, but the removal of the feed-back option will increase the possibility of a return to 15 to 16 or 20 years. Please reconsider, you have a few more hours until the regulation is issued and this proposal is withdrawn in order not to block this opportunity from the people. There is no reason, because most of the Hungarian network is not overloaded, it is a fairy tale trying to put people to sleep, trying to give a reason drawn out by some hair. That's why I'm asking you to withdraw this idea or maintain it, because now you feel sorry for the day. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause for the representatives of our country.]]
u2022-10-24-204	Thank you very much, Congressman Abbot. I'll give the floor to the secretary of state for an answer.
u2022-10-24-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, with regard to the reduction of the rent, I would like to point out that this government has maintained the reduction of the rent since 2013. Energy prices have run an incredibly fast all over Europe, and obviously this is due to a bad sanctions policy for war. It is extremely regrettable that the European people are in such a difficult situation, but Hungary is the first to receive the premium, which we provide up to average consumption, this is practically unique, we give 30 percent of the average income as a support, while this is 20 percent of the Germans who are much richer than us and 6 percent of the Austrians. Some information about solar energy, because this has been said several times today, and he said that this is a story. One of the challenges to be addressed in the use of solar energy and weather-dependent renewable energy in general is that solar cells produce at a different time than when electricity is used. If much renewable capacity is connected to a network, this challenge will become a network problem. I would like to point out that our installed renewable capacity is 1.5 times the capacity of Paks already. This challenge will therefore become a network problem. This requires the introduction of solutions on the network to ensure that production and use are connected. Such flexibility may include, for example, the use of storage facilities or the promotion of intraday use of electrical equipment at the place of use. As they are not yet a final solution, it is necessary to commit intraday overproduction and to produce additional energy which cannot be covered by renewables at peaks of use. This is ensured by so-called balancing capacity, which can be storage facilities or power plants that can be launched immediately. Please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-24-206	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Abbot.
u2022-10-24-207	Madam Deputy Minister, I can't accept your answer, I think there's something very wrong with this whole stunt. It seems like they want to prepare another business for the building battery companies by directing people in this direction. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the construction of the battery system will cost 1.5 million forints on a phase. With a three-phase system, it costs HUF 4.5 million, from HUF 4.5 million to an average, three times 16 amperes system, you could easily pay for a solar system with 11 kilowatts. At the same time, answer a few more questions to reassure people. Can those who submit their claim by the deadline provided for in this Regulation install it while maintaining a re-enablement option, or do they need to receive the claim, or will they only allow the systems already authorised to do so? Would you like to allow as many people as possible before the closing of the barrier, or would you like to shoot out most of the applications received since Gergely Gulyás's scandalous statements? Please give me clear and pinpoint answers to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the representatives of our country.]]
u2022-10-24-208	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State has the floor.
u2022-10-24-209	Thank you very much for the floor. I was just trying to explain what the current state of the electricity grid means, how it stands, and why it is extremely important to make it flexible. Since we have already said several times today that the needs can still be submitted by 31 October, and the detailed rules are expected to come out today, I would ask Mr President to wait for this in any event. In addition, we consider it very important to develop the network. In this connection, we have also prepared a complete restructuring plan, which includes network development, construction of new power plants, Paks II and Paks I. extension of operational time. This represents an investment worth EUR 16 billion, 32 major investments exactly. We believe that, in the future, these investments need to modernise the Hungarian energy system in all respects. I ask you, Congressman, to support us in this. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-24-210	Thank you very much, Mrs Zsófia Koncz. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, Congresswoman of Fidesz, immediate question... [[For signal:]] Isn't that right? I'm being corrected again. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes and Máté Kanász-Nagy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the LMP faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to reply at the hour of the next immediate questions due to the absence of Prime Minister. This is why the next representative of the LMP fraction, who is also László Keresztes, wants to ask a question. On page 14, we have the question, "Who will take responsibility, Minister?" He asked: the Minister of Technology and Industry; however, because of his absence, he asked Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, Madam State Secretary, to reply. I would like to ask Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group, whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2022-10-24-211	I accept, thank you very much.
u2022-10-24-212	Yeah. You have the floor, László László Keresztes.
u2022-10-24-213	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about a matter of no minor importance, such as the supply of drinking water and the protection of our water resources. I think that it has now been clear to everyone, as already said by a Fidesz majority municipal association five years ago, that the water utility system is in crisis in Hungary today, and the safety and stability of drinking water supply in the medium term has already been compromised. Instead of providing the most important public service with a substantial set of steps, the government launched a blackmail-enforced nationalisation process and, as a result, as no real solution was offered, it is not surprising that many cities resist this nationalisation intention. Several cities have decided not to hand over the water utilities to the government without charge, so they have decided Budapest, Pécs, Debrecen, Szeged, Érd, Szombathely, Eger, Nagykanizsa and Baja, and many cities have not yet made decisions, and have predicted that they would only hand over the water utilities under very strict conditions. The government does not outline any solution, there are no resources in the central budget, they are not prepared to address the crisis in the sector. Perhaps the most serious criticism about the government's action was formulated by the Fidesz mayor of Debrecen, who said that water supply is a strategic plant, so the municipality cannot hand it out. By the way, the Fidesz majority body in Debrecen accepted a proposal stating that there is no guarantee that the State would be able to finance the loss of operation and development in the longer term, as the conditions for this have not yet been clarified. Dear Secretary of State, When does the government realize that the main public service in Hungary today, the supply of drinking water, is at risk, and the protection of our water resources, the protection of water bases, has not been resolved? What are you doing to ensure that this extremely important public service, which is essential for our future, does not collapse? Thank you in advance, if you give us a meaningful, substantive answer, not a general political communication. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-24-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz. [[19.00]]
u2022-10-24-215	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's aim is to ensure the livelihood of Hungarian people, to achieve full employment, to protect the environment and, of course, to ensure healthy water supply. Mr President, we have talked several times about the water utility sector and the supply of drinking water here within the walls of Parliament. I would like to highlight and confirm that the government remains committed to developing and modernising high quality drinking water. In recent years, the Ministry of Technology and Industry has prepared a national water utility public service strategy with the involvement of stakeholders in the sector, which aims to provide short and long-term solutions to the challenges facing the entire water utility sector. We have also talked about the fact that by 2020, the number of these service providers has fallen from around 400 to 40, which can effectively ensure economies of scale, security of supply and a uniform standard of service. The authorities in difficulty and the water utility providers in their possession have been able to volunteer and I would like to highlight this: joining the voluntary integration process. This has enabled the smooth provision of continuous care, as well as the long-term operation and development of these systems. An important success is the reduction of household costs; quantified: this resulted in savings of approximately HUF 156 billion for retail users by 2021. However, one of the most important tasks in the current water utility sector is the modernisation of networks, which is what we are still working on. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-24-216	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. A rejoinder will be given in a minute, Congressman.
u2022-10-24-217	Thank you very much. Mr President, With all due respect, Madam Secretary, if the government can say so much in particular, we can say that there is a huge problem, because the government has no idea how it can provide drinking water in Hungary. What you said, your predecessor Tamás Schanda said two years ago, they said before, three or four years ago, that there is a strategy, but here there should be a strategy, not a commitment, but, let's say, hundreds of billions of forints immediately, this year's budget. [[Dr. János Fónagy: What the municipalities didn't put into it.]] And the fact that these general slogans are actually no solution is already said by the Fidesz mayors. I have just quoted the Fidesz corps of the second largest city in Hungary, Debrecen, to what they have told us, why they are not handing over the utility assets. They also do not see that the government would be able to ensure that drinking water is supplied in Hungary, so that in such a critical system, service companies do not fall under current energy prices. Madam Secretary! This year, will you say specifics, this year plus hundreds of billions of forints, and will you cancel next year's budget plus 200-300 billion forints so that the drinking water supply in Hungary does not collapse? I very much hope that, not because of me, but because of the Hungarian people, because of the local government leaders, because of the sector, the government will finally be able to give a concrete response to the maintenance of drinking water. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-10-24-218	Thank you. A one-minute rejoinder is also possible for the Secretary of State.
u2022-10-24-219	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to point out that in 2010, we inherited an extremely bad water utility network. The modernisation of this, the development of the network, I think we agree on this, is very important. I have also said here, within the walls of Parliament, that we are providing state aid to water utility providers participating in the integration programme in order to maintain security of supply up to their losses in 2022. In addition, we are constantly negotiating with the municipalities about their energy situation. György Balla is doing this as Minister for Foreign Affairs and, of course, we are also constantly negotiating with water utility providers, so please accept my reply in this regard. Thank you very much. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-10-24-220	If you'll excuse me, one second, please. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Kilora bought Hungarian left? It's an address. [[He's taking a moment's break.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman. I ask for your understanding.
u2022-10-24-221	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, More and more details are coming to light about the foreign campaign funding of the left. Péter Márki-Zay continues to be proud to try to win the election with foreign support. The issue of rolling dollars is particularly outrageous because a political side was financed from abroad to help power. If they had succeeded, foreign forces would now have a say in Hungary's governance. But the Hungarian people were wise to distinguish between foreign representatives and representatives of Hungarian interests, and they chose the representatives of Hungarian interests. A new video of Péter Márki-Zay, in which he spoke in August about the purpose of American campaign money, caused a huge public upheaval. On the tape it is said that the campaign will have a saldo of HUF 100 million, and only the amount of support received from the US source in June was hundreds of millions of forints. Péter Márki-Zay also said that there was a demonstration, such as that of Katás entrepreneurs, which cost hundreds of thousands of forints to organize, and that the amount will be spent on similar objectives serving the replacement of Viktor Orbán in the long term. According to the fallen Prime Minister candidate, there's nothing wrong with it. The mayor of Hódmezővásárhely put it this way in connection with the circumvention of party financing rules, and I quote: "There is no Kiskapu, this is a huge gate. From a national security point of view, it is a cardinal question of what promises were made by left-wing politicians from the American organization Action for Democracy. Dear Secretary of State, I ask who has enough money and power to give hundreds of millions of dollars for political campaigns to the left in Hungary, and what do you expect in return? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-24-222	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Due to the absence of Minister Balázs Fürjes, Secretary of State will answer the immediate question. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, First of all, history proves that foreign wages can't love the country and can't fight for it. Alien wages can only represent foreign interests. This is what the left does when it is pro-sanctioned, when it is pro-war and when EU funds for Hungary are being drilled in Brussels. But let's look at the facts and then connect the facts. First of all, the Left Prime Minister's candidate says that they received two billion forints from America for the left campaign. He also says that he has not dealt with the content of the campaign, that American campaign advisors from Gergely Christmas have handled the cases, and Ágnes Kunhalmi also talks about them. Then there's another very interesting Kunhalmi quote. Ágnes Kunhalmi, co-president of the Socialists, said that the entire opposition is in misunderstanding, unfortunately it is isolated in many respects from the vast majority of its own voting base, trying to meet a very narrow system of expectations for a very long time. And here comes the most interesting part, says Ágnes Kunhalmi:...which is an expectation system, if someone tries to quit or talks or tries to speak in a different voice, then they will be killed, I suppose, by those who gave the money. The third fact is that the left is pro-war and sanctions, while this goes against the Hungarian interests and, moreover, the Hungarians' opinion, and so the left is self-destructive, as it represents an unpopular position. But why are you doing this? It's obviously because they're gonna pay. They sold their independence, sold themselves for millions of dollars. It's called political prostitution, they say, and they do what the client dictates, because whoever pays for the band is pulling the music. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[19.10]]
u2022-10-24-224	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, please.
u2022-10-24-225	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer, but it is still unacceptable that the left is not in the interests of the Hungarian people, and they insist on sanctions, for example, if the Hungarians are in a difficult situation, they will be put into crisis and left without gas. We also know why they're doing this. Isn't that the price of rolling dollars? That's what the dollar left says. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-226	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-227	The people of Pest say they received two billion forints in dollars for the campaign. Well, that didn't really show up on their campaign. People also say that those who can afford only two billion forints of this kind of campaign are either clumsy or steal, and that we should not rule out that the left has even stolen the juda money. I don't think that's what this is about. It's a lot easier to solve. Simply the case is that in his brilliant masterpiece István Csukás Süsü, the dragon, he has long sung our left today, their favourite song:. We are the mercenaries, our hands have never worked... I think that explains everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-228	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, András Aradszki, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry an immediate question:, Why is Brussels pushing the gas price cap? It's an address. Because of his absence, Minister Zsófia Koncz has authorised the Secretary of State to reply. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-24-229	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Winter is coming, and the battles on the Russian-Ukrainian front will not cease. Every day hundreds of people lose their lives, soldiers and civilians; while Europe's population is terrified of how it can provide winter heating itself. However, the train in Brussels continues to rage, and now another idea has been put forward on the energy front. It was not enough to impose oil import sanctions, it was not enough to ban imports of solid fuels and firewood, and now the gas cap is the next plate. I think that, in the light of recent months, it was clear that it was possible to anticipate, and experts have also found that the introduction of a gas price cap in the European Union will result in gas shortages and gas shortages will lead to price increases. The Russian President himself announced this at an economic forum when he said that Russia would not deliver gas, oil or coal to Europe in this case. And who's in it for that? It is certainly not good for the Hungarian people. Fortunately, we have a government with a strong position that is able to achieve success in this area, and the Prime Minister told the Hungarians Friday at dawn that there will be an exception to the gas cap in Hungary, and we will be exempt from it, so that it will not jeopardise the security of Hungarian supply and the safe entry of gas. The gas price cap, as I said, leads to a shortage and not only a shortage of retail consumption, but also a shortage of energy production, which also represents a threat to power supply. I am asking you, Madam Secretary, who is interested in introducing the gas cap, why Brussels is pushing it. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz, please.
u2022-10-24-231	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for bringing this important question to this House, because it is very important to see what is real in this matter. In fact, it is not a price reduction, it is an embargoed sanction. If there is no one to bring gas to Europe, then the economy will be out of order. With the adoption of the proposal for a gas price cap in Brussels, we risked closing the supply of gas to Hungary in a few days. This was a huge risk, and I think it is a fantastic result, that, as in the case of the oil embargo, Hungary has managed to make an exception to this. We were not alone at the EU summit, and that is why we managed to reach a fair agreement. According to the agreement, if there is a gas cap in Europe, it will not affect the long-term contracts without which Hungary's gas supply would be impossible overnight. Furthermore, it was agreed in Brussels that if there were to be a joint gas procurement in Europe, Hungary would not be obliged to do so, so that all the procurement options remain open, thus achieving our goals. It is very regrettable that, in these important matters, the left is not on our side, in Brussels, because I think it is very good that we are worried about energy supply and the Hungarian people here in Parliament, but here we are talking about really important issues, and often we are alone in favour of the truth, or there are fewer people, but we still have to look at what is most important for Hungarian families. And I would like to say here about gas, or I would also like to quote the thoughts of French President Macron, who said that in the spirit of deep friendship we should send a message to the Americans and the Norwegians: you are great, you provide us with energy sources, but it will not be long before you offer this at four times the price of your own internal market; that is not what friendship means. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think these are very important issues that need to be discussed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-232	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please.
u2022-10-24-233	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for an exhaustive response. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that imports of gas caps can also have the effect of bringing gas sanctions and gas supply sanctions into Europe, with a radical increase in gas prices in Europe, and as a result, according to September data, gas prices have doubled to Hungary in Bratislava; four times in Paris, London; six times in Rome and Brussels, eleven times in Vienna and seventeen times in Amsterdam compared to the gas price in Hungary. It is therefore very important that this success has been achieved by the Prime Minister, because these favorable, relatively favourable figures would be worse, and the Hungarian population would suffer badly, and he would be the one to pay for it. Thank you for your answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have the Secretary of State's rejoinder.
u2022-10-24-235	It is quite obvious that the sanctions policy is extremely negative for Europeans, and that was not really the case at the beginning, since in March Versailles decided not to extend the sanctions to the energy field. And yet, when, at the end of May, the issue of the oil embargo was born, and there, with a great struggle, we managed to reach a positive decision for Hungary, then energy prices were simply completely out of control, and now we are talking about the gas price cap, and you can see how the market is changing in this regard, so I think that this sanctions policy is extremely negative. Practically all Europeans suffer in the same way, because it is integrated into food prices, it causes inflation, and I think that Hungarian people and European people would have an interest in peace, and that European decision-making should not take such very negative sanctions decisions. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-24-236	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Discussion of the Commission's report on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates 2021. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Justice H/542. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Committee on Justice, if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor. [[19.20]]
u2022-10-24-237	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ombudsperson, At its meeting on 6 July 2022, the Committee on Justice discussed the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2021 and decided to support it by submitting a proposal for a decision under discussion. The Parliament held the general discussion of the report and the proposal for a decision at the last meeting, recognising the thoroughness of the Ombudsman's report in every detail. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, I am now only in the debate on the Commission's reports as chairman of the committee. I would also like to thank the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and the Committee on Sustainable Development for its position in support of the proposals, and to ask the Honourable Parliament to support the report on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2021, H/542. adoption of a proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-24-238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, I would like to inform you that you have 13 minutes left in the debate for further speeches and closing words. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, allow me to welcome Mr Ákos Kozma with special respect. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I would now give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, but now, at this moment, he is no longer in the Chamber; he was still here a few minutes ago. I ask my fellow Members that someone wishes to speak in the time frame available. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is so to say closed, although there is no debate. I'll ask Mr. President if he'd like to make a closing statement. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-239	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the Ombudsman, his deputies and the entire office for their work in 2021, which is covered by this report. I wish they could continue to do their job in the future. Once again, I ask this House to accept the proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-24-240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the establishment of the Foundation for Animal Protection will follow. The government referral T/1203. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Répássy Róbert, if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-10-24-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Commissioner of the Government, Dear Members, gentlemen and ladies, Dear House, Our common cause is the creation of the Animal Protection Foundation, a turning point in the field of animal protection that is essential for achieving the objectives set. As has been said in the general debate, there is currently no organisation in our country that would carry out its animal protection activities so widely, through close cooperation with civil animal protection organisations, on a professional basis. The foundation would not perform animal welfare activities in the classic sense, such as daily animal rescues and the continuous care of animals, as civil society organisations are the best in these areas. The real aim is to support the work of these animal protection organisations by the Foundation and to perform its public tasks on a strategic and professional basis as set out in the bill. The Foundation intends to support other civil society organisations in the field of animal protection and to encourage cooperation between economic operators and civil society organisations. Animal protection is an area where the experience of civil society organisations is a huge knowledge, which is why the Foundation wishes to cooperate with them. In doing so, the Foundation could meet both social, civil society organisations and the needs considered relevant by professional actors. Dear Parliament, As regards civil society organisations, it is important to mention that last week the Herman Ottó Institute announced the results of the HUF 500 million application for civil society organisations in the field of animal protection. We also thank the civilians for their unselfish work. Raising children to maintain responsible animals and to treat animals correctly is the key to establishing the protection of future animals. The justification of the bill also states that awareness-raising in the field of animal protection is the primary tool of approach formation, in connection with its environmental and ethical aspects. It will be the task of the experts of the Foundation to find the methods and means to reach all parts of the country to the message of responsible livestock farming. Nor can civil society organisations be excluded from promoting responsible livestock farming, as they have practical knowledge and experience. Our joint cause is the establishment of the Animal Protection Foundation, so the organization will start operating immediately after the establishment, and the foundation's ex leg would have a public benefit status and the founder's rights would be exercised by the Minister of Justice. The public status is described by the public, so the functioning of the foundation will be known to everyone. Dear House, I call for the support of all my fellow Members in order to bring animal protection to a new level in our country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-24-242	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you have an 11-minute time frame for your further comments in the debate and for any closing words. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. There are now speeches by Members in the time frame on the agenda, so there is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. I give the floor to Mr Szabadi István, representative of the Hungarian Movement, who has made a written statement of his intention to speak. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-243	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, Your Honour, Commissioner of the Government, As I stressed in my speech as the lead speaker on 4 October, the Hungarian Movement is committed to environmental protection and animal protection, and we also welcome the fact that after 12 years of governance, Fidesz considered it important and realized that animal protection was worth serious consideration. The timing of launching his animal protection program before the elections was brilliant, but at least it started. However, in our view, animal protection in Hungary has been experiencing shortcomings for decades in the areas of irresponsible animal housing, stray animals, lack of neutering, anti-animal torture, and unfortunately, the situation is exacerbated by the government's provisions on overhead and petrol prices in the summer. Market prices, food prices, feed and feed prices, a sharp increase in medical costs, as well as market prices of petrol, are a significant additional burden on shelters and animal protectors. They say that a reduction in costs can only be made at the expense of animals. For example, they do not accept more animals, while more and more animals in distress, who, for financial reasons, cannot be kept or neutered by their owners, which increases overgrowth, cannot perform the necessary surgeries on sick animals, do not heat them, but, ultimately, put them to sleep. People are unable to donate because of their livelihood problems, and the number of adoptions has decreased drastically. In addition, a number of civil society organisations also carry out local government dog police work, collecting stray dogs from the streets so that they do not cause accidents. The municipalities signed a contract for several years this year, but they will not be able to perform the task without government assistance. [[19.30]] Although due to the many attacks, Herman Ottó Intézet Nonprofit Kft. has managed to announce the results of the application for the HUF 500 million grant to civil society organisations before the elections, a total of 187 organisations received support on the basis of the list of beneficiaries, while the number of civil society organisations dealing with animal protection was double in 2020. What about the other organizations? Are you going to farm it out of a one-percent offer, or are you going to close it because you can't pay for your extra costs? In addition, on the basis of the list of beneficiaries, it was confirmed that HUF 500 million was allocated on a political basis, as the largest amount of funding was granted to civil society organisations in the Fidesz sphere of interest. For example, the Papagai Saving Foundation, founded just a year ago by the wife of the mayor of Győr, was founded forints 8.5 million, and the White Raven Wildlife Saving Foundation in Veszprém, the Prime Minister's hometown. We can only hope that these organisations will actually spend the tender money on the increased operating costs of animal farming and not on their own advertising. We also find it outrageous that the Government Commissioner's team has sent a special e-mail to the organisations receiving the donation to thank Viktor Orbán and Péter Ovádi on their website or social media site in exchange for the donation. [[Péter Ovádi: That's stupid, that was before!]] Well, it doesn't matter. He's a gem of propaganda. The Hungarian Movement requires the government to keep its pre-election promise that animal defenders and animal lovers can count on the government's support and provide for NGOs who have not received funding. We stress that there is a need for substantial assistance and not a show of donations, because, in the opinion of veterinarians, the large amount of cheap dog food provided to 200 shelters last December with great press coverage was of such poor quality that shelters gave it away rather than feeding it to dogs, because from experience they say that it caused gastrointestinal problems in many of them. We also demand that pet farmers and livestock farmers be directly supported because they cannot manage the increased costs of livestock farming. Our joint case presented the bill on the establishment of the Animal Protection Foundation to Parliament after the detailed debate was held. I already mentioned it in my speech on 4 October, and I now state that the Hungarian Movement can support the bill as a whole and our joint cause is the creation of the Animal Protection Foundation. However, it does not agree that the Government will provide support for the operation of the Foundation only from 2024 onwards, since it will not be able to perform the public tasks related to animal protection in substance until then. It also shows that animal protection will be seen before the parliamentary elections and as a campaign course in 2024, and that support for the foundation will be scheduled for municipal elections. Of course, the government does not treat public trust foundations with such a narrow grip. In addition to the free transfer of thousands of billion forints of national assets to foundations managed by current and former political leaders, Fidesz-near businessmen, the government not only provides annual support to the functioning of institutions with real public functions owned by foundations, such as model-changing universities, but also trust foundations. The question therefore rightly arises, why, if the substantive activity is not covered, there is only money to support the annual operation of 34 public-interest trusts, then our joint concern is the protection of animals and the Foundation can no longer receive operational support from 2023. According to our country movement, the requirements for responsible livestock farming should be laid down by law. Be appointed per walk by a responsible professional who gives animal protection lectures based on curricula in educational institutions. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-24-244	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I think that you have gone over your time frame quite hard. [[István Szabadi: I saw it anyway.]] This is the president's fault. So I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovádi of the Fidesz Group, who is also a government commissioner for animal protection. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-24-245	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Honourable Congressman, First of all, let me thank everyone in the general debate for their supportive attitude towards the issue of animal protection. I think I'll just have to convince the Democratic Coalition to vote in favour of the foundation's bill in tomorrow's vote. Yes, a lot has happened in animal protection over the last two years, and I do not want to say it again to the Member, because I have already listed those measures in the general debate. I am asking you to talk to civil society organisations because they see these works, and for example, the stray regulation was a proposal that I think will provide a solution to the functioning of the police facilities in the long term. But, as the Secretary of State indicated, the HUF 500 million bid was a big milestone. This has never been the case, by the way, for only civil society organisations to receive support for animal welfare. The number of people who submitted the aid was not up to us, but depended on civil society organisations, since everyone who submitted the aid in time and also made the correction received support. So I don't think it's the government's fault that, say, there are 400 civil society organisations, and only 205 of them have submitted them, and only 187 of them have taken care of them in time. This 187 was supported by each of them. I don't think we should go into who, why, or how he got it, because it's a professional decision. And if the White Raven Foundation went to the congressman, I'm sure he wouldn't have said something like that just now. By the way, you have to look at their superhuman work. They deal with wild rescue, once the congressman goes out there, and they'll be able to show it to you, and the hundreds of volunteers who help them do their job, by the way. Overall, I would really like to thank everyone for their support for the case, and I really look forward to the help of everyone here, regardless of their party standing, their supporting attitude, and also the support of left-wing local governments that can do local work for the protection of animals, because I always say it, and it is true that we have a common concern in the protection of animals, so we all need to support it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-10-24-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask you, in the case of the time frame available, someone else would like to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: No, thank you.]] Secretary of State says he doesn't want to react. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Statute of the Universal Postal Association, the Ninth, Tenth and Tenth Pót Protocol, the amendment and the Final Protocol of the Universal Postal Convention of the Universal Postal Union signed at the 2012 Doha Convention, the amendment and the Final Protocol of the 2016 Istanbul Congress, the amendment and the Final Protocol of the 2018 Addis Ababa Convention, the amendment and the Second Additional Protocol of the Universal Postal Union signed at the 2019 Geneva Convention, and the Commission reports submitted to the submission of the amendment and closing date of the 2021 Abidjan Convention and the final proposal. Government referral T/1306. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-247	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 20 October 2022 the Statute of the Universal Postal Association, the Ninth, Tenth and Tenth Pót Protocol, the amendment and final protocol of the Universal Postal Convention of the Universal Postal Association signed at the 2012 Doha Convention, the amendment and conclusion of the Final Protocol of the 2016 Congress in Istanbul, the amendment and conclusion of the 2018 Addis Ababa Convention, the amendment and the Second Additional Protocol of the Universal Postal Association signed at the 2019 Geneva Convention and the announcement of the amendment and conclusion of the 2021 Abidjan Convention. Bill No. 1. [[19.40]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 40 votes in favour. Dear House, In Hungary, the Statute of the Universal Postal Association, the Final Protocol, the General Rules of the Association and its Final Protocol were published in 1967. However, the legislation of such a long-standing and global institution should be reviewed from time to time in line with today's challenges. The protocols and additional protocols contained in the international treaty before us provide for, inter alia, the establishment of so-called narrower associations, special agreements, the scope and objectives of the association itself, exceptional relations, postal security and relations between the Universal Postal Association and the United Nations. Those protocols and supplementary protocols shall also address the financial and operational background of the association as well as any case of exits in a Member State. Ladies and gentlemen, A total of four amendments have been tabled to the bill before us, which contain essentially legal technical and linguistic specification provisions. Maintaining our membership in the Universal Postal Association and accepting changes in documents related to its operation is an important issue and the proposal submitted should therefore be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr János Fónagy, on behalf of the rapporteur, if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-10-24-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to ensure consistency between international and Hungarian law and to enable the provision of international postal services to be harmonised through the publication of international agreements in the subject matter and their integration into the Hungarian legal order. As my fellow rapporteur from the Commission pointed out, there was no proposal for an amendment during the parliamentary discussion of the bill. The Commission's proposals for amendments made only legal technical specifications and language suitability and codification with regard to the title of the bill and certain provisions of the bill. As I said, no substantive amendments were tabled by the Commission in Parliament's decision-making. Thank you for the supporting professional work of the committees, which contributed to the final drafting of the text of the bill. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill tabled in the vote. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-250	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that 13 minutes will be available for further comments in the debate and for closing words. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. Representatives will now take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I'm asking you, would someone like to take this opportunity? [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you very much, Mr. President.]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak, because there has not been a debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, It follows the discussion of the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971, published by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979, and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral T/1206. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-251	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 20 October 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the T/1206 of the amendment to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971, by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 41 votes in favour and unanimously adopted pursuant to Rule 41 of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, The UN drug conventions classify drugs and psychotropic substances on the basis of their health hazard, risk of abuse and their therapeutic value. The Convention on Psychotropic Substances, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971, lists psychotropic substances in four lists. According to the psychotropic Convention, States Parties have an obligation to take the legislative measures necessary to bring into force and implement its provisions in their respective territories. The Psychotropic Convention was published in Hungary by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979 on Psychotropic Substances, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971. With the bill before us, the United Nations Committee on Drugs 65/3. Its decision No 1 is transposed into the Hungarian legal order. Dear House, Four amendments have been tabled to the bill, which include legal technical and linguistic specification provisions. The fight against drugs is of particular importance and the proposal submitted should therefore be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Péter Takács, on behalf of the rapporteur, to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Péter Takács: Thank you, Mr President, I do not wish to.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is now possible for the Members to speak. I'll ask if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State, it's my duty to tell you now about the closing. [[Dr. Péter Takács: I do not wish to, Mr. President.]] Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the publication of amendments to the Convention on Drugs and Psychotropic Substances for the United Nations on 20 December 1988, published by Law L of 1998 and the debate on the draft amending proposal for the United Nations Convention on the illicit marketing of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, signed in Vienna on 20 December 1988, will follow. The government referral is T/1207. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-253	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 20 October 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1207 of the United Nations Convention on the Publication of Amendment to the Convention against the illicit marketing of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in Vienna on 20 December 1988. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 38 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted unanimously by 38 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, As the bill before us shows, drugs have been on several fronts for several decades, fighting awareness-modifying drugs with the participation of Hungary at international level. Unfortunately, innovation does not avoid this area, so it is necessary to record new materials from time to time in the said Convention. Accordingly, the Committee has decided to include three substances in the United Nations list I of the Convention against the illicit marketing of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. With the bill before us, the committee is 65/4-6. Its decisions are transposed into the Hungarian legal order. [[19.50]] Dear House, The bill was also proposed by four amendments, which laid down legal technical and linguistic specifications. The fight against drugs and various awareness-modifying agents is of particular importance both at international and domestic level, which is well illustrated by the fact that in recent years the national government has tightened the criminal code and has invested much more resources on prevention than in the previous period. In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-24-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for not wanting to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, The Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now possible for the Members to speak, and I ask if someone would like to live with it. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to make a closing statement. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish, because there has not been a debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2013 XXXVII on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/1305. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to ask Mr Norbert, on behalf of the rapporteur, if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-10-24-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The purpose of the bill before Parliament is the 2011/16 on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. Directive 2021/514 amending the Council Directive fulfilment of the obligation to harmonise legislation resulting from the Council Directive, which will be subject to the legislative amendment contained in the bill. The extension of the scope of the Basic Directive to certain on-call services carried out through digital platforms, as from 1 January 2023, will further increase the international automatic exchange of information between tax authorities. The regulation also includes some additional and clarification amendments to the Basic Directive, in particular as regards common controls and certain data protection rules that may be carried out by Member States' tax authorities. On the basis of the bill, digital platform service providers are also required to provide the public tax and customs with due diligence and information obtained. By extending the scope of automatic exchange of information with EU Member States and third countries, the bill provides more extensive tax cooperation tools to identify and manage certain forms of tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax evasion. The amendment thus contributes to tax transparency and thereby to the proper application of international and EU tax cooperation rules and to the fulfilment of our country's obligations to harmonise its laws. As a result of the amendment, the Hungarian tax authority may use additional means to detect hidden incomes and to ensure the tax revenues of the budget. Honourable Members, Based on what has been said, I ask that the bill be supported by your vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-256	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you will have a period of 13 minutes during the debate and to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, and now its representatives are taking part in the time-frames on the agenda. I'm asking you, would someone like to take this opportunity? [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to speak, but there is no debate. [[Izer Norbert says no.]] Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the revision of the central budget heading in relation to the Integrity Authority and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is H/1314. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman András Demeter, rapporteur of the committee, please.
u2022-10-24-257	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 20 October 2022, H/1314 on the amendment of the heading of the central budget in relation to the Integrity Authority was discussed. A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 30 votes in favour, 2 against and 8 abstentions. The proposal for a decision before us is aimed at and in line with the legislative package initiating the establishment of the Integrity Authority from November 2022. The aim of the new authority to be set up shall be to take action in all cases where, in the context of the use of EU funds, the Authority considers that the bodies responsible for the control of the use of EU funds have not taken the necessary steps to prevent, detect and correct fraud, conflicts of interest, corruption and other infringements or irregularities which could adversely affect or affect the implementation of EU financial assistance. The Integrity Authority will act as an independent body from the government and should therefore receive a separate chapter in the budget. The adoption of the proposal for a decision serves this purpose, as it contains a change to the heading of the central budget, while the parliamentary decision calls on the Government to provide the new institution with the resources necessary for its establishment and operation. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the establishment of this authority will further strengthen the sound financial management of the European Union budget and the protection of the European Union's financial interests. That is why I consider it important, and I ask you to support it with your vote. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, who wishes to speak as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2022-10-24-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman András Demeter has told you exactly the purpose of the motion before you. The Parliament has decided on the establishment of the Integrity Authority, and the budget should also be set up by a body independent of this government, whether it be the 2022 budget or the 2023 budget. I trust that this technical motion will be supported by the Parliament and that we will be one step closer to the conclusion of the agreement with the EU institutions on the EU's ongoing EU aid. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-260	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you have a time frame of 14 minutes at a further stage of the debate and a possible closing term. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Budgets has not presented a rapporteur, and it is now possible for the Members to speak. I'm asking if anyone wants to live with this. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to make a final statement, because there has not been a debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Horváth, Fidesz Group, applied for a speech:.Greetings to those working for the security of energy supply in Hungary. Congressman, you have the floor. [[20.00]]
u2022-10-24-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Perhaps I am not exaggerating when I say that one of the most powerful drivers and the most important impulses of man's life is the pursuit of security. The drama occurs when this security turns out to be vulnerable and vulnerable, even if it is surrounded by a very high or very thick wall. If security is threatened, then life itself and its continuation becomes questionable and uncertain. At times like this, you turn to superhuman mode to restore and recover the security that is in danger. Today, millions of people in Hungary and Europe feel that their lives and the safety of their everyday lives are being threatened by the emerging energy crisis and its consequences. We humans, unfortunately, function in such a way that we often only wake up in a state of loss or absence and realize the importance, beauty and values of the other person or the world around us. That's how it is with energy. As long as things are going well, it doesn't even occur to me. In fact, we touch the light switch almost ignorantly, put our phone on charger, plug in the iron, cook the food, or press the coffee machine button. The greater part of our awakening requires the use and use of some kind of external energy source. If there's no electricity, there's nothing, they say they're working at the Mátra Power Plant, and they're not exaggerating at all. They may not know that the electricity arrived in the Upper-Mátra region only relatively late, in 1957. Then a celebration was held at the top of the mountain in the small villages, the unknown guest arrived, and they didn't know how to live with it, and today they don't know how to live without it. Not at first glance. There wouldn't be any public service without electricity, there wouldn't be water supply, drainage and treatment, there wouldn't be a store open, there would be traffic stops, there wouldn't be a guest, there would be no doctor, there would be no police, there would be no firefighter. Without the lights, everything would stop. In the energy crisis, we have to notice the thousands of people who are true, undetected, but who are working to be at every moment, to be available and to have enough energy for our daily lives and for the functioning of the economy. In the present situation, let us notice those who are slowly day and night trying to have enough energy for the winter ahead. Notice those who survive in mines, power plants, oil refineries, doing hard physical work every day. Notice those who maintain vital facilities and keep them safe. Notice those who operate, regulate, maintain and maintain energy transmission, storage and distribution systems. And let's also notice those who eliminate malfunctions, if necessary, under the harshest of circumstances, risking their physical integrity. Notice that thousands of people shoulder to shoulder work in admirable coordination under each other's hands and realize that all this is for us. Thank you and thanks to all those who work for security of energy supply and are struggling in these difficult days. When we reach for the light switch, let's be conscious for a moment and feel them. 'Cause it may look like the ego in this world is going to have a prom, but in the end, it turns out we're never going to get anywhere without each other, and in the end, it turns out we're not going to get anywhere without each other. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-24-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group has applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-24-263	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I would like to begin with a quote, namely that I, like thousands of colleagues, work as a family doctor, practicing my profession. I'm sure you're aware that family medical practices will be hit by a massive increase in overhead costs. I feel obliged to initiate the consultation of Budapest's capital IV. district council. This initiative was held at 13 o'clock on 20 October, and this was done. The average heating cost of the Újpest general medical clinics was HUF 16,000 per month, with current energy prices increasing to an average of HUF 282,000 per month. This increase of more than 15 times was the reason for this reconciliation, that it had to be done. Vice Mayor Norbert Trippon met with the city's general doctors at an extraordinary meeting, who unanimously indicated that the increased costs could no longer be paid, as the state's support for the practices has not changed substantially for more than a decade. This could put adult and paediatric care at risk. At present, this means 44 adult hospital practitioners and 22 paediatric practitioners in Újpesten. After the consultation, it was decided that the municipality of Újpest would take full responsibility in the first round for the November and December costs of GPs, as well as ensuring continuous contacts, together with the GPs, to inform the competent authorities that substantial financial intervention was needed immediately to support the practices. However, I have to say that the situation is not unique, because based on the experience of the Online Organisation of Home Doctors, a significant part of the Hungarian GPs may be in a difficult situation around the same as this 10-15-fold increase in overhead costs. There are 3,000 practices in this country that pay their own rent and receive energy at market prices. GPs who are in trouble because of this increase in bills provide health services that are most important to the population and cannot be abandoned by the government. I trust you can expect real growth and substantial help from now on. The maintenance costs of GPs have increased significantly and will be in huge trouble if they do not receive help. The government cannot leave them alone, a responsible government would help the practices either through the maintenance authorities or the NEAK, because there are already many general practitioners missing from the system, and if there is no radical change, I could say that there will be a disaster. I would like to end by expressing a doctor's opinion, as a quote. At the same time, we informed the municipality that the nearly 16 times the thermal charge would render the operation of the practices impossible. At the end of the negotiations, we were promised by the municipality that the district heat charge for 2022 would be taken over. This is already a great help to doctors, but it's only going to allow us to breathe for two months, because by 2023 even the municipality doesn't know how to keep the practice alive, so we need state intervention. We believe that basic health care in a settlement should be a primary objective, and in this situation we expect help. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-24-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, Member of the DK Group, also spoke after the agenda:. According to the Minister, the electrical system is not able to cope with the return of the population. That's a lie! It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Allow us to interpret the title of my comment a little bit before we begin. Yes, you are right to think that I would like to talk about the solar system and the Calvary of the solar system. Minister Gulyás justified that as of 1 November, the population will not have the opportunity to regenerate the electrical energy they produce, so that the Hungarian energy system simply cannot withstand the return of the population. [[20.10]] But I have to say, that's a lie, that's not true. And, in fact, if we look at this question more closely, it turns out that practically everyone who tried to think or be environmentally conscious, or to be sorry, perhaps not with green thinking, with environmental awareness, but simply using his small savings, possibly a little bit of credit, and not afraid of taking credit, and not because of the green thinking, but merely wanted to save a little bit of energy prices that were flying to heaven and still increasing exponentially. Yes, a lot of people have wanted to change that crazy and inhumane situation over the past few years, which they certainly have, and put their hands on, you know, not Brussels, not even the war, but the Kleptocracy in Orbán. Yes, we owe it to Viktor Orbán and his unscrupulous team, who have systematically stolen the future of a country over the last 12 years, and today we see that they have also destroyed his present. Yes, those people, I must add, I am talking largely about the small people who believe that at least once, once, they can be trusted in the government's word, that the Government of Orbán will keep its promise, and if, by the end of 2023, someone installs or installs solar systems, they may also hope that this investment will be repaid within a reasonable time. Now we can see it, we can see it, but they can see that they've been very wrong, everyone's wrong, because it's been a lie, like everything else that the government has promised for the past 12 years. And it doesn't matter anymore, we see it, it's not the law, and it doesn't mean that you don't even have to be a trained professional to let anyone know in about three seconds: what happened is nothing but a mean scam. Professionals, electrical professionals or those who deal with solar panels can, of course, support all of this with concrete facts and figures, and only for clarity: it is not true that the current screaming and screaming network, which has been renovated for a really long time, cannot withstand 3-5 percent of the electricity basket, but at national level it is well-designed new solar small power plants, there is no such thing, and it is such a lie that everyone is holding on to the present! He's building over a thousand megawatts of solar farms, who else? Not the small, not the residential users, well, please, the political elite and the economic moonyard in the background, and they can connect and produce the government's overloaded power grid without any problems. And with this scale, they can replace about HUF 47 billion of electricity bill every year, in addition to the population, even small and medium-sized enterprises, if the power were fair. I'm telling you, if it's fair, but it's not, it's not. Thus, while kissers, the Oligarchs near Fidesz, can laugh and build their megawatt power plants, even the small people who set their last pennies at the head these very days, in these weeks, they will permanently destroy or fool them, and they will make their new solar system meaningless or never return, or they will only return in decades. And this sad obsession, not the false expert, lier, and justification of Minister Gulyás. Again, for many times now, they have deceived everyone again, but they cannot do so indefinitely. It's gonna cost a lot of money, it's gonna cost you, it's gonna cost you, it's gonna cost you, it's gonna cost you, it's gonna cost you, it's gonna cost you, it's gonna cost you, it's gonna cost you, it's gonna cost you, it's Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-24-266	Dear Parliament, To speak after the agenda, Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs, DK Group:. The government is monitoring the drowning municipalities with a stopwatch from the shore to see how long they can hold the air with their title. You have the floor.
u2022-10-24-267	Mr President, Dear House, I recommend to everyone the tale of the cricket and the ant, instructive, and the simple story can be planted on the government's negligence. It's easy to understand why there's a problem. The cricket played the violin all summer, but the ant was prepared for the tighter times, saved and survived. The Hungarian government has lived like a cricket for the past 12 years, spent and cricketier than crickets, sparked inflation growth, the state budget is empty, and now hopes that the EU's money will come, but this is not the case today. The Hungarian government has nothing to protect people from poverty at the moment. We are suffering from a series of emergency measures that have been launched quickly, and there is a manpower in the economy, which is already fading. Unthinkable economic policy has also reached the municipality of Miskolc, the people's daily lives. The government is burying its head in sand, even though it is aware that the municipality and its institutions and companies are facing a market-based liability account. Its management is tied, its revenue capacity is limited, and if the expenditure side has brutally increased service prices and charges, how will it be replaced? In the current situation, it cannot be seen that there is a government intention to help municipalities. The city has 73 institutions involved in the price increase, nursery, kindergarten, social institution and elderly homes. The district heat charge will increase nearly tenfold, the city areas will fall into the dark, for example, in public transport from Diósgyőr to the St. Petersburg Gate for 6,000 forints. In the water supply area, the government says that cold showers are good for the Miskolcs. Restaurants are shutting down one after another, dozens of people have already lost their jobs. It is necessary to close most of its libraries, cultural houses and baths. So the city is in danger. And the three Fidesz MEPs in Miskolc put up with all this lying low, do not stand by the city, let go of the hands of the Miskolcs, and have no intention of helping the Miskolcs. If they had to face reality, if they had to make tough decisions for the city, they'd be squealing, they wouldn't dare stand in front of their constituents. They could take an example from local entrepreneurs who joined forces and make a contribution to the operation of the cave bath, so that at least it doesn't have to be closed. You're not local patriots, you're just selfish interest figures. How many billion debts were left behind in 2019? How do their representatives assist the National Assembly and the City Council to bleed out local governments? The voter who voted for them, but now they're giving him a hard stomach, and maybe he'll think about it. A special assembly was convened last week by the town of Miskolc to inform the city of the severe cost of cutting, the consequences of the energy crisis caused by the Orbán system. However, Fidesz municipal representatives did not enter their workplace. Before the beginning of the meeting, they were told that they would not attend the general meeting, even if this was a serious violation of their oath. They knowingly boycotted the meeting, even though they would have had the opportunity to openly discuss the budgetary problems of our city and help families. They didn't want to face reality, they gave up supporting decisions to run the city. Dear members of the local government and parliament in Miskolc, lying is a sin, it is a sin to lie about EU sanctions, which are pointed out as a bomb, even though Orbán signed it; it is a sin to lie that there is no money to raise the salaries of teachers, because billions are not coming from the Union, even though the wage increase must be secured from the Hungarian budget but there was 700 billion for Vodafone. They lie about how well we live while we are one of the poorest in the EU. Stealing is also a sin. For 12 years, how many Fidesz debt offshore accounts do Hungarians live on a minimum wage or on a pension close to starvation? The voter for you may now think: if the opposition had won nationwide, there would have been billions of people waiting for the EU, because we would be members of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And we'd be living in a state of law again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-24-268	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its work at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
