u2022-03-10-2-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. Representatives of pro-government factions shall not be present in the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, Extraordinary session of the Parliament is now in session. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be able to help me, Mr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I declare 44 Members of the Parliament Act 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the H/18295 on the condemnation of Russian military aggression against Ukraine. In order to discuss a proposal for a decision. The letter and its annex were also available to representatives and interested parties on the website. First, the speeches before the agenda will take place. Dear Parliament, To speak before the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group: on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-2-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Those who follow the parliamentary mediation, I think you can see that while the opposition benches are full, the pro-government representatives did not come into Parliament, do not do their job, they do not attend the extraordinary meeting that we initiated to condemn Vladimir Putin's aggression, the Russian military aggression that threatens Ukraine in its existence and threatens the lives of all the people living there, as well as the Ukrainians in Transcarpathia. The Fidesz people did not come in to condemn this aggression, and to express our stand for peace, to express our stand for joint European action, and to strongly demand from the government, to instruct the Government to implement the sanctions that we have decided together in the European Union and NATO, as we see that Viktor Orbán is still conducting a peacock dance, still trying to serve Vladimir Putin's interests, still trying to slow down joint and effective European action, still representing Russian interests in the Union and NATO. Viktor Orbán Putin and a man in constant combat. Compared to this, he proclaims peace and strategic peace, while we know that only the change of government can bring peace, security and peace. How can a Prime Minister who has been fighting against everyone for 12 years bring peace? As early as 2010, he declared a fight, for the first time in a rather ridiculous case: a freedom fight against Brussels for the freedom to cook brandy, but then not only fought Brussels and the European Union, at least in words, but he fought against the poor, against the refugees, against the sexual minorities, against the homeless people, against the Roma, against women's equality, against the green revolution. Viktor Orbán is fighting against everything that is important in this country, and it is worth supporting in this country. And while he's declaring a fight, he loses his real wars in a row. He lost the war against the government debt, against the government deficit, against inflation, against drastic forint weakening, against the spread and deepening of poverty. So this Viktor Orbán, who is always in the fight sometimes for important, sometimes totally unworthy goals, suddenly became an ambassador of peace: Viktor Orbán, as a white dove, slams an olive branch around us, so it is no wonder that he cannot be taken seriously, and at the same time proclaims strategic peace of mind. In fact, this strategic tranquility is the silent sneaking that tries to escape detection, the double speech, the unveiling of what he has been doing in the last few weeks. The credit loss is complete, and the Hungarian people can see it exactly. In this country, an informed man does not give credibility to this sudden pro - peace turn. All well-informed and well-intentioned people in this country know precisely that security is guaranteed not by Viktor Orbán's Putin-friendly government, but by NATO and our membership of the European Union. We can gain security, if we like it, if we change government, if we get rid of Putin's henchmen, if we keep the man whose love of power is the most important, and if he preaches about the power of love, his word is false. So what we have to do now is to draw the attention of all our fellow citizens to this lack of credibility, to draw their attention to the fact that for Péter Márki-Zay and Hungary in Unity, the force that can create security in Hungary can provide security in a physical sense, security in the field of energy supply, security in the rule of law and in all senses, because that is what Hungary needs most today. We see the government rushing, pushing the country into chaos, in an hour's time, holding a press conference on how it is trying to remedy the lack of fuel, how it is trying to manage the lost euro exchange rate, how it is trying to achieve the full failure of the economic crisis. So this chaos must finally end, and the change of government will bring about an era of peace and tranquillity. Thank you for listening.
u2022-03-10-2-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Let's talk about the facts. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-2-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that Central European peoples have an obligation when an independent country is subject to military aggression, to speak clearly and clearly. I think that we Hungarians, in particular, have this responsibility because of 56. Therefore, when an independent state is attacked by the Russians by military aggression, it is worth speaking clearly, straightly and with proper moral standing. In the countries to the west of us, it was customary, whether it was about 68 or 56, that the first reaction to the West was not to immediately and firmly condemn the aggressor, but, as an understanding sympathy, to excuse him for why he did what he did. This immediately confuses your clear position because you cannot focus on the essential facts. Today, the essential fact of the conflict surrounding us is that Russia is carrying out military actions in the territory of another independent state, Georgia. This is the fact that we need to make an opinion of, everything else is a remnant of misconception, self-disruption, and moral relativism left behind by socialism. I suggest that we speak clearly: what is military aggression is military aggression. Thank you.
u2022-03-10-2-4	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group, asked to speak with the title of News Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman. [[20.40]]
u2022-03-10-2-5	Mr President, Dear House, After Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's words, after Viktor Orbán's quote, let us continue by saying that, although under the pressure of the opposition, a political declaration has been adopted today which presents the peacock dance to which my fellow Member referred earlier, but all that has been said is indeed a literal quote to Viktor Orbán. You could have said it today, but you don't know it anymore because you don't have that ability! He's lost it! Instead, the favourite of Vladimir Putin, the only ally of the aggressor, hated by the whole world, is the last henchman. Prime Minister, today, when millions of Ukrainians are fleeing their country, when the bodies of men, women, and children lie beneath the ruins of the houses that have been shot apart, when they are trying to escape through ruins in the place where the bridge has been blown up, do you ever wonder how responsible your two-gallon politics and behaviour are for all this? Moreover, your people in Magyar Television and other Fidesz party media humiliate the attacked Ukrainians, saying, "Why are they fighting?" Surrender now! Give up your country to Putin for his desire to resurrect the Soviet Union. Do you understand, Prime Minister? ! Your people are calling a nation to account for why they're fighting for their freedom. There's no normal explanation for that. We don't know what they're blackmailing you with, but it stinks from afar. However, everyone knows that because of Viktor Orbán, the European Union and NATO are now distrustful of Hungary. And if that wasn't enough, then we also have to say that this is the result and part of this double-lubricity is brutal inflation, priceless food price increases, record budget deficits, record weak forints, record government debt, and now, in petrol stations, fuel restrictions. Why did you plan this, Prime Minister? Dear House, It is time for every voter to understand and take it seriously: the problem is great. The Orbán government has led the country into a total political, moral and financial disaster. One day, they say that only NATO can protect us, and the next day, NATO can't protect us. One day they say no sanctions against Putin, the next day they vote, and then they lie about voting. One day they say no migrant can come here. And then they did, but the state can't help the refugees. One day they say they don't carry guns from here to Ukraine, and the next day they do. It's not a strategic calm, it's a strategyless, headless chicken wandering. [[Defiance.]] The historical chance of change is here before us. On 3 April, we have to vote for the six-party joint candidates and the six-party joint list, otherwise we'll be left with shame, total isolation, total poverty. But we're not gonna let that happen. Because we know that change has to be done! Let's take this country back on April 3rd. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Péter Márki-Zay, Hungary should belong to all of us! Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-03-10-2-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP Group, spoke on the subject of current issues. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-2-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I'd pick up where my partners left off. Fidesz once again protested and protested against this extraordinary meeting by his absence. But the political success of this extraordinary meeting, I don't think you can prevent it. Without this, they would not have presented the parliamentary resolution, which the House unanimously voted on this afternoon, which was otherwise delayed. In this way, the opposition finally achieved its goal, forcing the ruling parties to condemn Russian aggression in the form of a parliamentary resolution. And since all opposition representatives voted in favour of the proposal submitted, they also made it clear that they had so far lied about the position of the six-party democratic opposition. On the basis of this afternoon's vote, everyone in Hungary can see clearly that there is no political force in this country today that wants to send weapons and soldiers to Ukraine. All claims in this regard were misleading propaganda to the public. But I think it's likely that Fidesz will continue its claims in the same way. The adoption of the proposal for a decision has therefore created a new situation. The fundamental question is no longer how we relate to the war, but it became the most important issue that we can protect Hungarian people from the negative security, economic and social effects and consequences of the war. The situation in the area of security is clear. NATO will protect us. The current and future security of Hungary depends not on Viktor Orbán, but on NATO! From the NATO to which Gyula Horn joined our country on the initiative of the former Prime Minister. Let's keep moving. Therefore, beyond physical security, the second crucial thing after avoiding the negative economic effects of war is to protect people in the economic field. So in economic terms, if the democratic opposition comes to government, it will do everything in its power to protect people from the very adverse economic effects caused by the war. In contrast to the lying Fidesz propaganda, we maintain the reduction of the rent, and even complement it with the panel program and the renovation of the Kádár cubes. We also pay the 13th month's pension against false Fidesz propaganda, and by restoring the mixed indexation of pension calculation, we not only preserve but also increase the real value of pensions. We will implement our wage increase programme because it is crucial to avoid negative effects. Among other things, we are raising wages in health care, education and social and police areas. I also consider it crucial to exempt the minimum wage. It will have a very important effect in protecting Hungary from the negative economic effects of the war if we come to government in three weeks' time. We will reduce the VAT on basic foods to five percent, thereby curbing the rate of inflation which is now accelerating, and if VAT is lower we all know, the rate of subsequent price increases will also be much lower. We will also implement our rent-apartment construction programme in order to overcome the housing crisis. And last but not least, to protect people, we break up with the policy of deliberately weakening the forint. We are doing everything we can to strengthen the forint, and we are also starting to prepare for the introduction of the euro to protect Hungarians from the very negative, negative effects of exchange rate fluctuations. After physical and economic security, which will be developed after three weeks, the next government will concentrate very strongly, we are calling for the completion of a divisive, hate-promoting policy for social security. In the current war situation, this is particularly important for at least the most fundamental issues in society to develop unity and national minimums between political sides. I consider this to be the case, and such a national minimum is, for example, the adopted decision that we voted on today, so that, for example, there is agreement on fundamental foreign policy issues. The MSZP and the democratic opposition are in favour of a peaceful, diplomatic solution. [[20.50]] Violence, war, can't achieve lasting results. We support the negotiations, agree as soon as possible, and we also support the humanitarian assistance of Ukraine in everything. Thank you.
u2022-03-10-2-8	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Prosperity and freedom for all Hungarians! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-2-9	Mr President, Dear House, In the ominous war situation, the members of the opposition alliance have basically told us everything about the election between the East and the West, but it is important to see that as long as there is a single Hungarian fleeing from a single war in Transcarpathia, the government is committing treason by not being present at this meeting today. [[Intercoms from Jobbik and DK, among them: That's right!]] At the same time, we need to talk about the vision that the opposition has and what makes a gap between the world of Fidesz and the world of Europe's cruelest government. I'm accusing this government. I accuse you of the fate of over 21,000 evicted families, the destruction of their fate, because in Europe such cruelty was not committed by government or political force. I accuse this government and some of its members for collusion with the executioner's mafia, and for the fact that the 33 percent and 50 percent bans on executions over the most difficult months, the minimum wage, the small pensioners. In Europe, such cruelty was not committed by man, government or political force. I am accusing this government of the housing crisis and cataclysms that have persecuted many abroad and culminated in the promise of a minimum wage of 133,000 and a rent of 150,000 in the capital. It's pretty amazing. I accuse this government of the difficulties of hundreds of thousands of our countrymen who were forced to emigrate, because these people wanted to thrive in their homeland, but the Orbán government has eaten up their futures, their life opportunities, and let us be right-wing or left-wing emotional, regardless of the nationalisms, the fact that not everyone who wants to live in this homeland can manage. I accuse this government of knowingly weakening the exchange rate of the forint, for sacrificing the everyday interests of the Hungarian people for the interests of its allies in Western Europe, or for making it easier for them to attract exporting multi-companies. There is no need for multi-enterprises, there is a need for public burdens. There is no need to drive anyone out of this country, but everyday representation of the interests of Hungarian citizens is essential. Fidesz is worth a thousand billion-dollar special tax on weak forints, which hangs not only on a smartphone, but also on basic food, petrol prices. Our everyday destiny and difficulties are greatly enhanced by the amazing process of knowingly weakening national currency. I accuse this government of instigating and letting them inflate the daily collection of goods without which it is impossible to live in Hungary. Record inflation, inflation that has not been seen for 15 years, would have been a manageable process with a credible government, a professionally competent government, a government that would listen to not only the opposition, but perhaps even professionals, if it had listened to people who could have helped hold this process, again, it would have been possible to make the fate of Hungarian families easier and to make their everyday lives liveable. In Europe's former pantry, I accuse this government of the brutal explosion of food prices, so that now middle-class families have to play chess at the end of the month about how to put healthy food in front of their families, family members and children. It is outrageous to see this happening in Europe's potential pantry and a government trying to pour national syrup on itself, which, however, gave up national interest in everything. It's quite shameful. I'm accusing this government of the amazing reduction in the opportunities of children's children, of increasing their difficulties. There is no other government in Europe lying about a demographic turnaround, but at the same time it has a 27 - percent penalty for diapers, baby food, children's education articles, and our poor or difficult countrymen who need the most help. I am accusing this government, as a whole, of idly idly strategically idly observing the first signs of an upcoming global crisis. We, the members of the opposition alliance, want to weave back the social safety net that Fidesz has broken, and we want to return the safety of everyday life in order for every Hungarian to be able to thrive in his homeland. Prosperity, freedom for all Hungarians! Thank you for allowing me to serve my country in this term.
u2022-03-10-2-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the Parliament does not have a quorum. [[Intercoms: It was monotonous!]] Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that Mr Máté Kocsis has in a letter initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. [[Intercoms: And where is he? Where's Máté Kocsis?]] In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I note that 36 votes in favour, zero votes and three abstentions were registered in the vote counting machine during the adoption of the agenda. [[Intercoms: Who were the three remaining? Now put your hands up.]] On that basis, I find that the Parliament is not capable of a quorum. Dear Parliament, Please... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'd like to close it with integrity. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On the basis of written information from the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, as well as announcements of the absence of additional representatives, I do not see the possibility to restore the quorum today. [[Noise. Szabó Timea: Don't say that!]] Based on this, the House Rules of Decision 14. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, I shall establish the list of missing representatives. In the absence of a proposal on the agenda adopted, no items on the agenda can be discussed, so that no comments after the agenda can be held. [[László Varju: I'm so ready!]] The meeting's closed. Thank you very much for your presence. [[It's a rare applause.]]
