u2022-06-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you and welcome those who are monitoring our work today. Today István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian will be representatives as notaries for my help. The 11th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We are currently in the middle of a major energy crisis, and we have no debate with the government on this. While there is already a great deal of how the government is dealing with this energy crisis, which is the maintenance of the government's price and dependence. I'm talking about hydrocarbon dependence, which means they still don't want to separate fossil fuels. This direction is not sustainable, because what is expensive, which is polluting, which causes serious security policy risks, and which makes Hungary dependent on both East and West, could not be based on Hungary's long-term energy supply. But the system the Fidesz maintains isn't even fair. A system that supports the rich, the elite, and the system with the gas stop or the reduction of the overhead, so that the rich can fill up their SUVs or heat up their pools in the luxury villa, that's not fair. The support of the elite should be taken away and given to those who really need it, let's say, in addition to the reduction of the rent, housing support or debt management services could be rebuilt in the social law. This energy crisis, which we are in the middle of, cannot be dealt with only by short-term means. The long-term solution is to get rid of hydrocarbons, oil, gas or coal, because it is clear that these energy sources are expensive and will continue to be expensive in the future. You can know exactly how much they are, but how polluting they are, they are destroying our quality of life, our health, let us just think that 10-15 thousand people in Hungary are losing their lives every year because of a disease caused by air pollution. Dear House, Countries who seek long-term solutions can be successful and protect their citizens. The long-term solution is clearly to produce the energy we consume ourselves and to use the energy we produce effectively. Countries that see the future in renewable energy are successful and protect their citizens. From this point of view, Hungary is very bad. Our share of renewables is only 14 percent. This is far below the average of the European Union, and then countries such as Denmark and Finland have not even been discussed. In this situation, the LMP has three current, concrete proposals, which are towards a sustainable, green future, if you will. It's pointing towards the hundredth century. Our first proposal is to lift the ban on the installation of wind farms. It is absolutely absurd that in the middle of an energy crisis, wind power plants cannot be newly installed in Hungary. Interestingly, it works in the surrounding countries, it works in Austria, it works in Serbia. Do you think that the wind is not blowing in Hungary? Our second proposal is to launch a national building insulation programme as soon as possible. One hundred thousand apartments of 300 billion forints per year could be isolated. This is a real reduction in the costs and it is a green solution, a green solution that could create tens of thousands of jobs, as it would be an ongoing mandate for small and medium-sized enterprises. Our third proposal is the introduction of a climate lease. We should get rid of the pressure from the car lobby, and I would also like to point out that the period of cheap petrol, its era, is over. You obviously know that very well. With a gas stop, you can only cover this problem for a period of time and hours. The real solution is a XXI. Support for green, sustainable public transport in the last century, an important step being the introduction of climate leases. I am very pleased that Mr Balázs Fürjes, State Secretary, has arrived, who has made a positive promise in this regard. We are curious when this promise about the introduction of the climate lease will be fulfilled, which would mean that a few thousand forints per month could be used to travel in Hungary on different vehicles of MÁV, Volán or BKV. It's very simple. We have drawn up and submitted these proposals. If the government supports them, we can take at least three steps towards a green, sustainable future. If you do not support it, it will be proven once again that the opposite of green policy in Hungary is Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-14-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the speaker's speech before the agenda will be from Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to start by saying that the Hungarian government is extremely important in terms of environmental protection and climate protection, which is why, among the first things, we decided to achieve full climate neutrality by 2050. There are many elements to this. In the framework of the climate action plan, several points have been identified. Let me mention just a few examples in this respect: by 2030 we will be multiplying the capacity of solar power plants, supporting the emergence and use of cheap electric cars. We have introduced the green government bond, and the government undertakes to use the money from it only for climate-friendly programs. In Hungary, CO2 emissions per capita are the sixth best value among EU Member States. In addition, the issue of public transport has been raised. We are looking at all good international Europeans, and so we are looking at examples in Germany. Obviously, the government's primary objective is to protect families, to ensure the stability of energy supply and to promote and support public transport. To this end, on 25 May 2022, the National Transport Centre was established as a national transport organisation responsible for coordinating Community transport timetables and standardising tariff systems. The infrastructure, vehicle and service developments carried out since 2010 provide a solid basis for a more dynamic modernisation of Community transport, improving both urban and rural quality of life. Environmental protection is a priority for us in achieving transport development goals. In the last decade we have upgraded 600 km of railway track in Hungary, nearly 350 km of electrification has taken place, such as between Mezőzombor and Sátoraljaújhely, and we have also renovated bridges, stations and several stops. Significant rail development has recently been launched. In Hungary's central budget, the Hungarian central budget will continue to increase: in 2018 the Hungarian central budget will spend HUF 93 billion and in 2022 HUF 130 billion on the renewal and maintenance of the Hungarian railway infrastructure. The Volánbusz company is also developing. We've launched a large-scale vehicle rejuvenation program. The update of the 6500 vehicle fleet is moving rapidly. As a result of large-scale vehicle purchases, more than 2820 new buses updated the fleet of Volánbusz and its predecessors between 2010 and 2022. [[9.10]] Obviously, it is also important to highlight the development of the bicycle road network in this area. I think that this is a truly environmentally friendly segment that must be put to the fore. Since 2010, about 1850 km of new cycling routes have been built, and some 2,000 kilometres of tourist routes have been designated. The development of public biking systems is also one of the developments of the past period, while MÁV-Start's fleet of vehicles and equipment for the transport of bicycles are constantly getting younger. I have already mentioned the climate and nature conservation action plan, the cornerstone of which is the greening of transport. The program is also a dedicated industrial development, as it aims to ensure that the Hungarian bus production achieves 60 percent of the Hungarian added value. In this context, the replacement of the bus park will start, thus increasing the quality of service. It's summer vacation, and it's very important to talk about it. Over the last few days, we have been negotiating with the leaders and experts of MÁV-Star and Volánbusz. A number of previously prepared enlargements and timetable developments have been decided. Developments primarily help to improve the approach of Lake Balaton, which has become increasingly popular in recent years. The contact details of Lake Balaton improve from many settlements in Hungary in the summer season; from which there is no railway connection to Lake Balaton, new bus services will start. Overall, it is very important for us to develop and promote Community transport over the next period, in which we ask for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-14-4	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. To speak before the agenda, Ms Rebecca Szabó of the Dialogue Group has applied. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-14-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It was a hopeful step when the Minister for Agriculture appointed a Commissioner for Animal Protection in the autumn of 2020. Then the National Animal Protection Council was established, although animal protection NGOs can delegate only one person here, without the right to vote. For all of this, the animal protection civilians have been fighting for years, and, in my humble comment, it was also possible for the government to be inspired by the fact that the mayor of Budapest had previously appointed an animal protection agent. But the point is, now there's a special responsibility for animal welfare, which is definitely a result. I just don't understand how, then, it's possible for a civil society organisation that's been caring for public horses for years, let alone not getting help, but the state trustee is trying to destroy it. The state has repeatedly asked the Dharma Ló Refuge Foundation for help to receive confiscated, i.e. state-owned large animals from horses to sheep to goats. Understandably, the State does not have the capacity to do so. On the other hand, the Dharma shelter has become an ideal farm-accepting establishment, since it has a 40-acre area covered with pastures and forests. It is no coincidence that the Jacobs who were officially destroyed under unclear circumstances could have been brought here as planned earlier. The Dharma Foundation has been caring for the horses of the state for five years, but it has received nothing but promises. More specifically, a cooperation agreement was signed with the Agricultural Ministry in June 2021. In addition to the document signed by the Minister, they were, in fact, promised, orally, one-off and subsequent regular financial support and the right of free use of a previously empty state-owned building they renovated. None of this ever happened. The 130 animals, which were largely rescued and received, were unfortunately not covered for the monthly supply costs of nearly HUF 4 million. In fact, the situation is even worse, as according to press reports, the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. It requires a monthly rent of HUF 758 thousand for the building renovated and used by the Foundation, which they cannot provide for the supply of the animals. In addition, this happened after the foundation had already submitted a request for free use on a proposal from the agricultural portfolio. I very much hope that you can now confirm that this is just an administrative error, and that the situation will be settled with MNV Zrt., and that they will eventually pay about HUF 60 million for state-owned livestock. Although the case of the Dharma Foundation is now in the press, I would like to remind you with respect that there is another non-governmental organisation dealing with horse rescue, Bottyán Equus, which has also provided for horses confiscated in various official procedures for years, and unfortunately also does not receive support to cover the costs of their care. In one case, they had to bring the lawsuit to the Curia, which was launched for the supply costs of horses placed with them for animal cruelty. He won the lawsuit at Bottya after ten years, but he didn't even get money from the state agencies in this case. So you guys managed to get them to the brink, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Today, in Hungary, animal protection is practically operated by civilians, and they know that only citizens can rely on donations and 1% of taxes. But it's a classified case if you want to collect unwarranted money instead of helping them, or you have to sue for years for the money they're owed. Is that really what you call animal protection? By the way, Péter Ovádi, Commissioner of the Government, announced that this year they want to help civil society organisations in the field of animal protection with a HUF 500 million grant. After 12 years of attitude, I also feel that it is a very good result, but a single grant will hardly be enough to help some 400 organisations with operational difficulties over the years, because there is also a crisis in the field of animal protection in the country. It is estimated that there are millions of orphaned cats, which are only hungry and sick, even hundreds of thousands of stray dogs can live in Hungary, and there are also co- and farm animals who need to be rescued because of animal cruelty and poor maintenance, while the animal shelters are full. It is time to implement comprehensive solutions. Among other things, a national animal protection fund is needed in the budget, which also ensures that the confiscated animals are properly housed in addition to regular aid for applications to civilians. It is necessary to support and closely monitor the renovation of the pedigree settlements. It is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of animal welfare authorities, because there are now many places where there is no one to enforce the legislation. The police, the court, must have appropriate animal protection training, a wide-ranging social approach campaign for neutering and prevention of animal cruelty, and the training for responsible animal rearing should be included in the National Basic Training Plan. But in addition to the above, first of all, organisations such as the Dharma shelter, who are currently carrying out all these tasks instead of the state, should be assisted. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK, Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-06-14-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister of State, responds. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You've brought up quite a lot of animal protection issues, events and organizations here, and a significant part of that, from your mouth, is all a negative story. I see much more positive experiences and achievements in the field of animal protection over the past years. Now I could say that earlier as a practicing farmer, the caretaker and keeper of thousands of farm animals, these thoughts that you have mentioned, what a problem there is, I would like to reject them. Of course, there are people in Hungary, there are people who don't keep animals specifically for the purposes they need, and they don't care for them, but I would like to do some specific things for you. First of all, we would like to thank all the animal-loving civilians and civil society organisations for continuing their sacrifice and devotional work in order to protect animals, showing the strength of the animal-loving Hungarians if they are committed to working together. The aim of our wallet is to help improve animal welfare by all means available. We strive to achieve this goal through a wide range of instruments, including legislation, awareness-raising, and the provision of financial resources for the performance of animal protection tasks. Supporting civil animal protection organisations and their superhuman work is a key issue. We have created the allatvedelem@am.gov.hu e-mail address in order to communicate with the organisations. In the last year, Hungary's Government has supported approximately 67 animal protection NGOs with HUF 141 million, which will help us effectively in the work of the organizations in all counties of Hungary. Our objective is to ensure that Hungary is also at the forefront of Europe in the field of animal protection within five years, but we know that this requires a great deal of work, and cooperation with civil society organisations is also essential. [[9.20]] During the preparation of the 2020 Animal Protection Action Plan, the Deputy State Secretary for Food Chain Surveillance of the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Chief Veterinary Officer and the Chief Inspector for Animal Protection indicated that it was not possible to keep confiscated farmed animals in temporary accommodation. In this context, it proposed the establishment of places for the temporary storage of confiscated animals. In 2021, a national animal protection programme was presented to the government, in which, according to the management of the specialty, cooperation with civilians is much cheaper, more cost-effective than building and maintaining an independent reception facility. The resources allocated to this task in 2021 were available in March 2022. The HUF 500 million budget for civil animal protection organisations, foundations and associations, mentioned by you, can be obtained by tender. The invitation to tender has been available since 17 May on the allatvedelem.hoi.hu platform, and the applications for aid will be submitted within 20 June 2022 and between 20 July 2022. The funds can be used by civil society organisations for operating costs, accommodation and veterinary expenses of HUF 500,000 and HUF 10 million. During the preparation, the decision-makers also took into account the difficulties of civil society organisations keeping livestock and, therefore, the call for proposals was designed with this in mind. Turning briefly to the specific case referred to by the Member, the Cooperation Agreement between the Dharma Ló Refuge Foundation and the Agricultural Ministry was concluded in June 2021, in which the Dharma Ló Refuge Foundation undertakes to accept and professionally care for the horses seized and confiscated by the animal welfare authority. In the agreement, no commitment was made on the part of the Agricultural Ministry to offer real estate, nor on the basis of a real estate offer. Please accept my answer. Of course, we still have a lot to do in the field of animal protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-14-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of Mi Hazank, Mr President Novák has applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, There will be an interim pension increase in July, and at the end of the year it will come again, which is very right, if it is so runaway, there will be a great deal of inflation. But why are family subsidies not inflation followers, like pensions? That's my question, Mr. Secretary, and I'm afraid it's gonna be another misconception instead of an answer. Yet, parents do not take children for a year or two, but for decades. It would be important to be predictable, to be predictable, especially in the demographic crisis that the government has failed to emerge from. In the last decade, the Hungarian population has decreased by 200,000 people, and without a demographic shift, a further 400,000 decline is expected by 2030. This is read in the analysis of the Hungarian National Bank, their 144-point programme package was published a few weeks ago, their package of proposals, which does not seem to support any of the government. Yet here is the conclusion that the Hungarian family support system cannot cover the costs of raising children for families. That's a serious sentence. And let us add that the family tax base benefit is one of the most important elements of the Hungarian family support system, but the amount of the discount has not followed the dynamic wage increase in recent years, the MNB notes. They calculate that the monthly tax benefit for the three children is only half as high as the average wage when it was introduced. From 1 January 2011, the family tax allowance will be used, and then the family discount will be interpreted in a broader sense. Perhaps the proudest of this, and they can be proud of it, because giving a discount of 99 thousand forints for three children was undoubtedly a big deal in 2011, only since then, as the MNB says, it is worth only half as much, but if you count exactly after it, it is worse, because there has been a 2,36-fold change compared to the average wage since then. So, if you look at inflation, or if you look at the average wage change more broadly, then this HUF 99 thousand should now be HUF 234 thousand, if the system of family support were to follow inflation, like the pension system. At that time, we had not yet talked about how they tricked us into showing inflation. But the fact that the family support system doesn't even seem to follow inflation is quite unacceptable. However, like pensions, it should be guaranteed by law that family subsidies are inflation followers, thus preserving their value. All support for child rearing should be valued for a predictable and predictable future. In addition, the Hungarian Movement would make the articles needed to raise children VAT-free by guaranteeing the resulting price reduction by law. This is a measure that would indeed reduce expenditure on children. It should not be possible for a simple start-up to lend money to families. It would be necessary to create mother-friendly jobs or introduce full-time parenting. Let me add to this: every Hungarian child should be a public treasure, so that all obstacles to the birth of the desired children should be rolled away. However, we can see that women of childbearing age have fewer and fewer very large families. It is nice to have two or three children, but why not have four or five or even seven children, why not give support to the government. It also gives, until the youngest child is eight years old, for more than a decade, 28 500 forints are still being given, of course not even in an inflation-following manner. That is, therefore, the appreciation of full-time motherhood at the current government level. Even from a demographic point of view, they could make a difference in the situation of our country. Therefore, with appropriate guarantees, for example, school education, prior long-term employment, and an unpunished record, the possibility of full - time parenting should be created for those who would like to devote their lives professionally to raising children. You've got an excellent advisor who's been undeservedly put in the background. It is József Benda who has long advocated the program of professional parenthood, its introduction, this career model, which you have wiped out, as well as the proposals of the MNB. Let me highlight one more of these, which I like very much, and the old programme element of our homeland movement. This is a family-based pension scheme to provide a defined pension supplement as a percentage of the contribution of working children, since the MNB statement provides a 20 percent lower starting pension for women raised with three children than their childless peers. So it seems that taking on a big family is still a huge risk of poverty, greater than being retired. This is why, like the pension system, the family support system should at least be followed up by inflation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-14-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos responds to what has been said. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, First of all, allow me to thank you for voting for the Hungarian families in your speech and for bringing an important topic to the House's walls about the everyday situation. We think that today it is in Hungary's interest to grow in peace and security, to have all the children we want, and to have a predictable, stable vision. We believe in families, we say that without successful families, Hungary cannot be built successfully. As Mother Teresa once said, if you want to change the world, go home and love your family. The mission of family-friendly Hungary is the same, we work every year to make it even easier to start a family, to have children, to raise children, and to make a home for them. I think we agree on the importance of the family as a basic unit of society. In his speech, you asked us to be predictable. The 2023 budget also protects families and family support in addition to protecting pensions, full employment and the reduction of wages. As far as the specifics are concerned, Mr Vice-President of the Group, in 2023 the budget provides some HUF 3225 billion in funding to support Hungarian families. This is nearly HUF 450 billion higher than the amount of subsidies in the 2022 budget, and this is three and a half times the amount spent by the 2010 Balliberal Governments. This HUF 3225 billion means that we spend around 15 percent more on family support compared to the previous year, and you urge us to tie it to the level of inflation. [[9.30]] Deputy Chief of Staff, inflation is 10.7 percent based on the figures of the HCSO in May, and we spend 15 percent more on family support. Be kind, don't ask us to reduce family benefits, don't ask us to take you away from families. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] And don't ask us to give them nearly 5 percent, in this case nearly 150 billion forints less in 2023! Once we know that the continent is experiencing economic and financing difficulties as a result of the war and the misguided sanctions policy, we have established a budget that provides a reassuring answer to these issues. Peace is the only solution to war inflation. The whole world is struggling with inflationary difficulties due to war, but the Hungarian government is also able to create a budget that is a budget for peace and security. We do not allow the reduction of the rent, we do not allow the Hungarian people to pay the price of the war, and we do not give in to family support. I know, and I trust, that the Vice-President of the Group has this in mind, so I confirm that the Hungarian families are safe today. I listed some data yesterday, but now I'm going to repeat the most important things. We have a family-friendly tax system, we recognise and support the work of parents. First married people get tax benefits for two years. People under the age of 25 don't have to pay personal income tax anymore. In 2010, we restored the duration of the child to three years, and today the maximum of the child is two and a half times the amount of 2010. In addition, the Grandparent child is also available. From 1 January 2022, the ceiling for the State aid for baby bonds doubled. From July 1st, 21st, we increased the baby care fee from 70 percent of gross earnings to 100 percent. The number of cradle seats increased by more than 70 percent. Next year, the amount of child food support will continue to increase, with nearly HUF 100 billion available for this purpose in 2023. The free textbook supply has become full from the school year 20/21.The government will spend more than HUF 13 billion on this next year. The budget will provide more than HUF 490 billion for the continuation of the home creation programme next year. I would therefore like to reassure you, Mr President, that the Hungarian families are in good hands, and we stand by the Hungarian families, and this is proof that despite the drastically rising energy prices due to the sanctions in Brussels, we are maintaining the reduction of household rent and guaranteeing this to about 100,000 small entrepreneurs. You can also be sure that, according to the current budget, the civilian government will not reduce or expand family support. Believe me, if everyone did as Mother Teresa said, she would go home, and she would love her family, neither war nor war inflation, I would encourage everyone to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-14-12	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. Member Ms Agnes Kunhalmi of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-14-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Well, it's a crisis. What is causing it is obviously one of the wars, and we believe that the Hungarian economy was not in a rosy position before the war. [[Bence Rétvári: With a 7 percent increase, it really couldn't be!]] But it is certain that we agree that we must make Hungarian society crisis-resistant, make Hungarian families crisis-resistant, and that Hungarian people must be protected from the negative economic effects caused by the crisis, and to do so we need money, money, money and money. Without money, you won't be able to do any tricks. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Hundreds of tricks!]] Trying to do the budget with other things. If we don't get enough resources from the European Union, we'll be standing on our heads after a while, and you'll be standing on your head. Therefore, the MSZP will again submit our proposal for a decision to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. This would be urgent because the almost HUF 5800 billion amount due to our country from the Restoration Fund will not be able to be replaced in essence until then. If the government is to submit a plan for the European Union, which is not contrary to the Hungarian objectives, and the second is to ensure the restoration of the rule of law and, in particular, the start of the eradication of systemic corruption. That would be the most important step. By the way, you know this, and it is no coincidence that you are looking for a solution, something must be shown to the European Union, you know this well in Fidesz, it is no coincidence that, according to the public prosecutor's statement published on 23 May this year, Péter Polt announced that the European Public Prosecutor's Office could act as a substitute for prosecution in the courts if the Hungarian prosecutor's organisation closed the investigation in the event of suspicion of harm to EU funds, so that the European Public Prosecutor's Office could be a representative of the prosecution. It is also a coincidence that the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office concluded a broad cooperation agreement with the European Public Prosecutor's Office last April and with OLAF in February this year. So you want to cooperate with the European Public Prosecutor's Office without joining us; it is a good trick, in many cases, in connection with the fighting Brussels and the European Union. Otherwise, it is not right for the government to argue that accession is contrary to the sovereignty of the country, the Fundamental Law guaranteeing this, because according to the Fundamental Law, Hungary, as a Member State of the European Union, can exercise some of its powers under the Fundamental Law together with the other Member States, through the institutions of the European Union, in the case of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In the event of accession, the current text of the Fundamental Law also allows for accession, since it does not say that the Hungarian State's criminal needs are exclusively enforced by the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the word "exclusivity" is missing. So nothing prevents the Hungarian Government and Hungary from joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office. If Fidesz doesn't have anything to hide, there's no reason not to join us anyway. In 2009, you said otherwise, even in 2009 Fidesz was committed to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, as they said in their own programme: Fidesz also supports the setting up of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, extending its powers, in addition to serious cross-border crimes that violate the Union's financial affairs. So there's nothing to stop us from joining. There's only one thing I want to say. You told the Hungarians that this money was definitely due to the Hungarian people, and that this money was actually due. With regard to unconditional basic income, they said that there is no unconditional life, that the moral basis of a work-based society is that no one gets any support without work. Then how can you argue now that this money goes on, and where they are and where they are now, that the wages of Hungarian teachers should also be paid to Brussels. The wages of Romanian teachers are paid by the Romanian state, the wages of Hungarian teachers must be paid by the Hungarian state, as German teachers are paid by the German state. By the way, this money, indeed, I agree with the Hungarians. I am asking you to enter the European Union Prosecutor's Office in one condition. Let us join, do this for the Hungarian people, because this is the only way to save them from the negative economic effects caused by the war. Make the right decision, stop screwing around, for the sake of the Hungarian people!
u2022-06-14-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Róbert Répássy, Deputy Minister of State, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your speech is also a good example of the fact that the left wants to constantly and persistently transfer national powers to the European Union, to reduce our national sovereignty. The government has found that EU funds are being withheld for political reasons by the European Commission; there is no other reason for this to be done by the Commission; this has been mentioned several times. The Hungarian Government has always agreed with the fundamental objectives behind the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and in view of which Member States have created the possibility of setting up such a body at the time of the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty. We have been constructively involved in this process, while maintaining legal certainty, with the aim of a well-functioning and effective organisation in practice. At the same time, it should be seen that, by setting up the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the participating Member States intend to transfer or transfer part of one of their most important powers to the European Union, with a view to limiting their criminal powers and one of the essential functions of the State. Therefore, we believe that accession to the regulation would have been acceptable only if it had fully respected the constitutional arrangements of the Member States and the fundamental principles of European Union law such as subsidiarity and proportionality. Denmark, Ireland, Poland and Sweden shall not participate in the enhanced cooperation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The others do!]] [[9.40]] Finally, the European Public Prosecutor's Office model was designed to reduce the effectiveness of criminal proceedings by over-complicating and centralising procedures, which, contrary to the original objectives, makes it more difficult, much slower, while maintaining it consumes huge amounts. Nevertheless, it should be stressed that Hungary cooperates with the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the spirit of loyal cooperation in accordance with the EU provisions on relations between the Member States remaining outside. The European Public Prosecutor's Office has so far been the only Member States not party to the European Public Prosecutor's Office to conclude a working agreement with the Hungarian Chief Prosecutor's Office. Furthermore, the fact that Hungary does not participate in the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office does not result in a reduction in the domestic level of the fight against crimes which harm the European Union's financial interests, or that the control of the use of EU funds would be less intensive. In order to maximise the effectiveness of law enforcement, the Hungarian authorities continue to pay particular attention to cooperation with existing and well-functioning European agencies, the Hungarian government usually stands up to the importance of which in European forums. Of course, the Hungarian government also considers the fight against corruption to be particularly important, so it has introduced a number of measures to combat corruption in the last government cycle. Today, the penalties for corruption are much stricter and the law on public procurement has become much stricter than before. The majority of the government included a basic law on the responsible management of state assets, which resulted in the increase in state assets between 2010 and 2017 of HUF 7000 billion. However, I would like to stress that the independence of the Hungarian prosecutor's office is guaranteed at constitutional level, as opposed to other Member States, where, in the subordinate prosecutor's model, the Minister of Justice may even instruct prosecutors, for example in Austria or Luxembourg. The fact that Hungary is not involved in enhanced cooperation with the European Public Prosecutor's Office due to legal and efficiency concerns does not mean that Hungary is not committed to combating fraud that harms the financial interests of the Union. You have referred to it, and you are well known to everyone who is watching the subject, that just recently the European Chief Prosecutor, we can say that the European Prosecutor praised Hungary because of the high level of cooperation with the EPPO. So I ask you to take these facts into account, and we continue to ask you, left-wing Members, not to raise the bad news of Hungary in Brussels, not to claim that Hungary is not participating in this cooperation for political reasons. I would also ask you to defend our national sovereignty and to pay attention to how the European Public Prosecutor's Office cooperates with the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office, and if they have already praised you, I would ask you to acknowledge these results. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-14-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Member Ferenc Gelencsér of the Momentum Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-17	Mr. Speaker, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It turned out quite quickly that the Fidesz-KDNP government's actions before us were against what these parties promised the people of Hungary in the election campaign. It is now obvious that Fidesz and KDNP deceived the voters, bought them with false money, by deception, by mistaking Hungary's government. It's a shame to waste the word on how many times and how the governing parties made it false, how many times they tried to underestimate people's abilities, how many times they tried to prove to us that two is six. Such a strange thought was the question of sectoral special taxes, also known as extra-profit workers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Those of you who thought that companies were not going to impose on consumers, so on the Hungarian people, as Ryanair has already done, and as Wizz Air has, so those of you who did not see this coming are either not thinking, or their ability to see it is rather modest. This is an example of an economics starter type. I'm also surprised that you didn't count on this, because many of you have done exactly the CEU that has a rather strong economic profile or rather had it, because you managed to drive it out of the country. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Five minutes walk!]] There is a consensus between the ruling parties and the opposition that the situation is difficult. Here the agreement ends, because you, as always, are taking economic difficulties to external factors, even though you would have had 12 years to build a national economy that is resistant to economic shocks. Well, I guess that's out of the question. You feel a little like reading the tale of the cricket and the ant. The ant is the Hungarian nation, especially the Hungarian middle class, and the crickets are you, my fellow members of the Government. Speaking of middle class, no government can give up helping the middle class. We all know that, in fact, this country is on their shoulders, they must be kept in a position, if necessary, with all the strength of the country to avoid poverty. If the skilled workers, the teachers, the office staff, the young family members are pushed into poverty by you, and the chances of their raising their children with honest work, decent education, and strength from five to six, well, that's when there's going to be a real failure, then there's going to be a real collapse. Dear Fidesz-KDNP Government, Solidarity with the poor, the Christian solidarity you have often mentioned, does not mean that more and more people are being pushed into this line so that they can feel the situation of other poor people in person. The government is currently about to adopt a budget for poverty. Even though prices are rising, even though living is becoming more difficult, the budget does not expect substantial wage increases in the public sector. You are currently having the Hungarians pay for their 2022 election campaign. You are currently being paid by the Hungarians to hold back the European Union's Restoration Fund, which you could receive from our country, the EU's only request is to steal a little less of it. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Katalin Czech!]] Ladies and gentlemen, The question of how responsibility has been shared between the last 12 years and the governments of the last 8 years has been heard from you many times. That's basically all you're talking about. But how is the Fidesz-KDNP government responsible for today's situation? Is it really true what the government spokespersons have said that the responsibility lies with others, such as Brussels? In the Momentum's opinion, the government can't pass on its responsibilities, or it won't want to govern. The patient may also be prescribed medications that make his condition worse or cure his illness at a price that causes more harm than the problem he intends to cure. This budget is a bad remedy. For this irresponsible behaviour, for this dilettant budget, and for this professional shame, they can no longer place responsibility on their predecessors. Dear House, The Parliamentary Group of the Momentum does not accept the treatment the government proposes, because the cure proposed by the government would certainly mean the death of the patient. The biggest problem of the Hungarian people today is not the Ukrainian war or the refugee crisis, but the continuing uncertainty of existence. We want Hungarian people not to be afraid, to live in constant uncertainty, to have peace, peace, predictability in our country. Instead of an emergency, we need security, instead of uncertainty, we need predictability. The government should work to guarantee the safety, livelihood and well-being of the Hungarian people. Let's spend the Hungarians' money on people's well-being, hospitals, schools and jobs! Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Momentum and DK.]]
u2022-06-14-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, Deputy Minister of State, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, In his speech, you referred to the education and results of pro-government politicians. Listening to you, I'm afraid you're gonna have to ask for the school expenses back. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] Because he doesn't know the past or the present. Although you have mentioned the past, we prefer to refer to the past, with your permission, I do not allow you to do so, although that is not what your speech has shown, but you are likely to know it very well. But let me tell you about the present and the past decade. After the disastrous situation in 2010, and you cannot argue that the country has come out of the crisis that we are facing in relatively difficult conditions in the world economy. [[9.50]] We're out of debt, families, municipalities, the country's debt, and in 2013-14 we're on a relatively clear path for development. The relative rest of the world around us was undoubtedly involved, although, and I think you already remember this, the migrant crisis that began in 2015 has shaken Europe as a whole, including Hungary. This development was halted three years ago by the pandemic that once again shocked the whole world and, obviously, Hungary. You have come all this way, although you claim that this does not work in Europe and in the world; Congressman, please read the paper and watch television. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] The war in Ukraine should listen to radio; it does affect the world, shake Europe and fundamentally affect Hungary's current situation. It influences security, defines energy prices, and therefore, of course, fully assess Hungary's current situation. We're in a prolonged war situation, we're living in extraordinary times. The Hungarian government, contrary to your claim, is in this exceptional situation, too, essentially seeking to secure jobs and ensure the peace and livelihood of families. Within this framework, we also protect the real value of pensions [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] And what's affecting the whole situation, we're protecting the cost reduction. These objectives are therefore clear, and exceptional measures are needed to achieve them. At present, this exceptional measure is aimed primarily at the business that has not experienced the disadvantages of this exceptional situation but has, by its position, gained extraordinary benefits. There has been an extra profit for energy producers, banks, the insurance sector or the airlines mentioned by you which do not have any additional activity, there is no additional cost. The extra-profit tax is not aimed at removing the normal business profit, it is not aimed at making a fair profit for all economic operators in the normal business, it does not even take away the entire extra profit, but at the part behind which there is no cover of any kind that results solely from the economic situation of the world, Europe and Hungary and from the situation of these companies. Please consider the price difference between the two basic sources of supply in this energy area, namely Brent oil and Ural oil. There is a very significant difference between the purchase price and the price of the finished product produced, which does not require any additional activity from these companies. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That is what we take away, and we use it for community purposes. I ask for your approval and assistance. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-14-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the notary of Parliament, has applied for a speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-21	Mr President, Dear House, We are debating a lot of things here in this Chamber, but we have to say that we are broadly agreed on one thing: we are in the middle of the dawn of an emerging crisis. In such a situation, guaranteeing the everyday safety of families can be the common point that I think, regardless of party standing, we should all, as a matter of priority, agree. And what we see is that the number of children born and everyday life situations in the families prove that there has been a crack in the last few years. Unfortunately, the number of children born is at a historic low point, and we can see that even the fertility index to which the government is fondly referring has unfortunately started to decline. If you're a countercombatant in this, you're a traitor, so let's be clear, so you shouldn't be a countercombat on this subject. And we also see that, indeed, when we look at family tax incentives, various family expenses, we should stay stone-cold in mathematics, and we should say that half of the amount of the child's allowance, such as the family allowance, has been largely absorbed since 2010, and in respect of family tax benefits, it is true that they do not follow the amazing release of prices in all their parts and not every year. However, we can also see that there is a very, very depressing thing for all children, and this is the fact that they tax baby food, children's clothing, baby bottles best throughout Europe, so this 27-percent tax-based VAT on child-rearing articles has, for some incomprehensible reason, been left out of so far's reduction circles and, for some reason, unduly burdened families. Let us be honest and let us not be silent, and I very much hope that Mrs Secretary of State will honour you with her reply, because I would also like to include the fact that the euro exchange rate, which is rising to 400 forints, will also brutally increase the burden on family members. It may not be a secret that every type of goods imported from abroad for which euros or other are given will be more expensive, including a bottle, a diaper, and even in the case of Hungarian-made foods, raw materials, if you need a foreign machine, chemical or device to process them, they will also be more expensive thanks to the consciously weakened HUF exchange rate. The answer to the government's spending on family support, and the increase in the amount for the generous, is to be compensated by the withdrawal of horrific amounts from the other family's pockets in the form of VAT. However, I would like to warn you that, despite the fact that there are really large amounts of family support resources, the demographic results of these are not negligible, but, unfortunately, they have now turned negative, and I wish they weren't; and there is also a very creative fiscal policy behind it, for example, over 200 billion of the Women's 40. So I'd like to narrow it down now, and I have this naive idealistic hope of getting at least an approximate professional response to why children should have such a brutal VAT period face it. Our proposal is clear: there should be no VAT, so there should be a zero-percent tax rate on child-rearing articles, including food related to children, let us say, baby food, which is already at a luxury commodity price in the drugstore of an average Western network compared to what has been experienced in previous years. But we also see that you have been expecting around 5100 billion from the Hungarians in the form of VAT payments, which is now, Madam Secretary, Secretary of State, increased to 7,000 billion, so you have a horrific revenue surplus. We're not asking for much, we're asking for 10 percent of this extra income you've collected for the children's educators. The 10 percent of this should not be introduced, taken away, and the tax duration of child rearing articles should be reduced to zero per cent, and we will also ensure that this results in a genuine, full price reduction. We have developed a system of instruments to guarantee price reductions in this system. Let's sit down and talk about it. We will be very constructive on this issue, but we must insist on reducing the VAT duration of child rearing articles and making this fundamental gesture to families in an emerging crisis. The sense of security of many Hungarian families would move in a positive direction from this, which is why we will see this topic several times during the budgetary debate. Despite every public storm, I would expect your constructivity in this matter, and if I did, I would guarantee our own constructivity in this regard. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-14-22	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, Deputy Minister of State, responds to the speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to respond to a number of things, first of all, the issue of starting a family, the situation of families. When you start a family, when you have a child, it's a private decision, where the state doesn't belong. However, it is our duty and duty to give him all the support that we can think of to have a family. [[10.00]] I can tell you that, despite all the difficulties, the family support system is never seen in Hungary, we now spend about 5% of GDP on family support. I could list the measures: baby bonds, ten-million-dollar baby shower support, housing renewal support, home-building discount, car shopping support, graduate, family tax relief, and the line is far from complete, perhaps you know them. These, too, certainly, have resulted in an 89 percent increase in the number of couples getting married in recent years, and the willingness to have children has improved by 25 percent compared to the beginning of government. If you say that further steps are needed, I agree, but if you might say that the government is not doing anything, it will not stand the test of reality. I believe that inflation and livelihood are very important in this situation. War inflation is the number one threat to the livelihood of families and to the livelihood of all Hungarians. Let us ask why this is: did this happen only in Hungary or in other countries? The answer is the latter. Even before the war started, there was a significant increase in prices, mainly due to the increase in energy prices, and the war just put a shovel on it, and the misguided sanctions policy only makes it worse. Typically, according to Eurostat, energy prices increased by 40% over a single year. So if there are living challenges not only for Hungarian families but also for European families, war inflation is the main reason for that. Therefore, every effort must be made to bring about peace as soon as possible. Meanwhile, a number of measures have been taken to protect families: gas stop, food stop, interest stop, resistop. We stick to these, we stick to reducing the rent, we stick to the gas stop. There would be a HUF 700-800 petrol price in Hungary if there were no price restrictions now. With regard to the issue of tax reductions, we also insist on a policy of tax reductions. That's why corporate tax decreased to 9 percent, it was nearly 30 percent earlier, so we insist on family tax relief, and that's why we insist on a single-key tax. That's not the policy your allies have. So when it comes to supporting families, you can count on the government, I can tell you that. Although you were talking about constructivity, that was not the tone you've had in the last few months. That's why I'd like to respond to something else, too, because a year ago, they were talking about how the government is going to fail, government leaders and politicians will sit outside Peter James's room and wait for their fate, and besides, the cuffs will click. Well, it wasn't exactly like that: they ran into a huge defeat, but this, it doesn't seem to prevent Jobbik from calling the government and giving me lessons on what and how to do it. So, we can ask how Jobbik could run this country, from this point of view, the past days have been the guiding principle. Just a few steps, really just a few: the chief of staff resigned, the party president filed a criminal complaint against his fellow Member for unfaithful treatment, according to press reports, the entire Presidency demanded the resignation of Mr.Péter James, who, referring to his psychic state, left the Bureau meeting, and finally threw in the towel and resigned. The fact is that he tried to sit in Viktor Orbán's chair, but he ended up sitting next to his own chair while holding on to the faction chair with two hands. It's a rather glorious end to a glorious story. It seems that the outgoing party president, who now no longer dared to come in, was better off making an alliance with Ferenc Gyurcsány than with his own supporters. The current events are certainly due to the fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány pulled Péter Jakab left on the imaginary political dating service. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to one more thing. James Peter said that he would not give the joy of leaving, that he would not give Fidesz that joy. It's not about any politician leaving the scene that gives us the pleasure, it's about the country's affairs moving forward. So if you're talking about constructivity, we welcome this, I could say that less parizerfarsang, more construction work, less provocation, more cooperation for the country, less flirtation with post-communists and more concern for national affairs. In a word, I wish you a better future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-14-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the DK Group, MEP Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The way the government stands with the municipalities, the way it deals with them, shows what it thinks about social cooperation. During Covid's time, we have seen that you do not trust anyone, while you have supported local governments in Western Europe, while the Hungarian government's funding, austerity and secrecy were typical. They didn't hurt the local governments, they hurt the people who lived there, because they had less social support, fewer condos and local government housing renovations. 402 HUF 48 cents a euro, just to say what the rate is forint/euro at each possible time. This is one of the consequences of the brutal austerity Orbán package, which affects not only people in general, but also businesses and municipalities. Of course, you didn't say a word about this before the election. As an individual parliamentary representative of Elizabeth and Terézváros, I am concerned about our districts, our cities, our settlements, and I am not alone in this. The Fidesz mayor of Székesfehérvár is also concerned, András Cser-Palkovics said that it is also a problem for them that the municipalities themselves have to farm their own bills. And such a brutal increase in electricity prices can't be achieved by the Fidesz mayor. But I will continue to show my fellow Members how much damage the Orbán package is causing. György Gémesi, Gödöllő and Tamás Wittinghoff, Mayor of Budaörs are also concerned. Tab's fidesz mayor also literally said, "In three months' time, everyone will burn under their feet." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear government, when you answer, I ask you not to start now by starting with the Gyurcsány, but by starting with the Orbán, because Fidesz mayors are rebelling against the Fidesz government's policy. They're the ones holding a mirror. and they say that you are not willing to discuss anything, that you have started a policy of austerity and are striking the municipalities spectacularly. Dear House, Because of the Orbán package, public lighting in some small settlements will have to be turned off at night, with cities with bigger county rights and smaller cities losing hundreds of millions. In Terézváros and Erzsébetváros, there is only 50 million HUF per district for the rest of the year. The Democratic Coalition was right to use EU funds to modernise energy, but you chose stadiums, meaningless luxury investments, but at least there is a railway in the Prime Minister's hometown. The renovation of condos and housing sites and the energy upgrades have long since stopped, but it would have been nice if you hadn't stopped them then. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is in serious trouble. That is why it is necessary to strengthen, wherever possible, the democratic majority leading the democratic mandates, the districts and the settlements in the municipal representative bodies. Our candidates in the interim elections, such as László Pityó in Józsefváros and Jenei Kevin in Erzsébetváros, represent the Democratic direction. Young, talented, they already know and understand that the local government, the functionality of the districts, their services, their green surfaces are important. Walking around the houses, they ring the doorbells and welcome our candidates with complaints. People are being crushed by ever-expensive life, for many it is priceless for everyday bread, meat, dairy products, vegetables and fruit. What they got before the election, it's all gone from inflation to rising overhead. Old people, young people who are starting to start their careers, workers, virtually everyone who isn't around the fidesz meat pot. Everyone else can pay. Of course, the burdens imposed on airlines, banks, companies will eventually be paid by ordinary people. In this situation, further implacability of municipalities is not a mistake, but a sin. Of course, I'm sure you can tell me how in Elizabeth City Fidesz has decided to launch the former Fidesz gentleman working at the trustee's office in this interim election, who is involved in György Schadl's case. When this trustee sold Schadl eight apartments, your candidate worked there. [[10.10]] And then another miracle, my fellow Members: the candidate of the Gatyan Party was, at the same time, the CEO of this trustee. So he's a candidate for the Pants Party, and he's gonna start it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that Fidesz candidate was his boss at the time of the Panama dealt with by György Schadl, and the Fidesz candidate worked there. Thank you very much. Excuse me. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-14-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, Deputy Minister of State, responds to Mr Vice-President's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The whole world is living in extraordinary times, honourable Member. We read news that in Germany in the first quarter the value of the Germans' average earnings decreased, in Hungarian: the standard of living decreased. We read that in Britain one of the energy suppliers distributes electric blankets to people, so that if they can't heat their apartments, at least their blankets are warm, and they can make sure that in winter at least in the bed where they sleep, they are warm, if they can't be warm in the room and in the other rooms. We read that, compared to the first month of 2022, there has been a 53 percent increase in the energy bill in Vienna until now, in a few months, in Copenhagen by 15 percent, in London by 39 percent, in Amsterdam by 51 percent, not in years, but in a few months. We can also see that Hungarians are in the most advantageous position both in terms of electricity and in terms of natural gas, and this is due to the reduction in overhead costs that you have attacked many times. I mean, while they pay 10.32 in euro cents for a kilowatt hour in Budapest, 16 in Bucharest, 42 in Berlin, 44 in Brussels, 48 in Vienna, 53 in Copenhagen, 65 in London and 10.32 in Hungary. And if you look at the price of natural gas, also in euro cents, you can see that in Budapest 3,26, in Bucharest 6,27, in Brussels 16, in Berlin 20, in Copenhagen 21, in Vienna 24 and in Amsterdam 30, in Amsterdam 30. There is such a situation around the world, there is such a situation across Europe, honourable Member, and there is a government in it that can protect its own citizens, and there is a government that cannot protect its own citizens. We have never heard from your MEPs that they have stood up for the reduction of the rent, we have never heard them defend the Hungarian rent reduction, but we have heard many times that they have attacked the Hungarian rent reduction politically on the one hand, saying that this is a faulty construction, stupidity. Ferenc Gyurcsány also said that this will bankrupt the service providers and the country in business, and that there must be a profit and no business without profit. We believe that there should be a different approach to public services. So we saw an attack on the reduction of the rent, but there was no support for the reduction of the rent. It was ten years ago! - to the Democratic Coalition to say a single sentence that would support the reduction of the rent. In ten years, in more than 3600 days there was no one day, there was only one politician who would have said that yes, Hungarian people must be protected from paying twice or three times the rent; never once. What did they do? They saved their own period of time for it to be justified, honourable Member, to raise the rent 15 times. And with regard to the situation of the municipalities: in 2010, you created a situation where the municipalities had to be consolidated by HUF 1300 billion. They gave the municipalities less money than they gave them a task of HUF 1300 billion. The tasks were expected, the government offices checked, they were there under legal supervision, they enforced all the conditions with the municipality, so that they knew very well that they would not give the municipalities as much money as they could, but they said that we would then allow the municipalities to issue bonds and take out loans. You didn't know what was going to solve this problem, just like you couldn't solve it nationwide, just take out a loan, for a while, then the municipalities will be behind schedule, the municipalities will operate, and then someday someone will repay these loans. And somehow, in the last 32 years, it is sometimes the right-wing governments who are always paying off the loans that left-wing governments are taking in, or that municipalities are taking in because of under-financing during left-wing governments. Honourable Congressman, Today, Hungary is in a stronger position than it was 12 years ago, because 57 percent of people had jobs, now 73 percent of them work. Then the minimum wage was 73,500 forints, now 200,000 forints. It's a lot safer than humans. More people are working, and they're making a lot more money. That is why people are safer, and that is why we say that if external factors do not make the Hungarian people's situation worse, they do not make the Hungarian economy impossible with a faulty Brussels sanctions policy, they are able to do what they were able to do in the previous year: increase by 7.1 percent. You are constantly talking about a decline, while we have historically achieved the highest, 7.1 percent increase in GDP last year, and we would also have such a prospect for the coming years if, with the rise in oil prices and gas pricing, they did not endanger the work of Hungarian people in Brussels so that Hungarian people and Hungarian governments could do much better. Please support these measures and do not attack them. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-14-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the KDNP Group, Mrs Hajnalka Juhász applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-14-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, After the EU rule of law procedure and the oil embargo that has hit our country, I am now forced to reiterate in the context of the carbon tax that Brussels can be extremely creative if it has to serve the public with the punishment of Member States or EU citizens wrapped in a lofty idea. I call these measures punishment because they are both ultimately aimed at reducing EU citizens' rights by discrimination. The current case also shows that Brussels is not in solidarity at all, because it would not want to impose more taxes on people in a difficult economic situation, which is just a shock from the pandemic, which is shocked by war. But what is it about? The carbon tax, on behalf of which it refers to the taxation of fossil fuels, is nothing more than another attempt to make people pay the price of the pollution generated predominantly by industry, although it should be recalled that the polluter pays principle is one of the basic elements of the EU environmental policy agreements. Of course, I also consider it important to protect our created environment, so reducing CO2 emissions even at residential level, but I believe that it is essential for this to happen in addition to the available alternatives. Dear House, One of the most neural points of the idea is the reform of the current CO2 trading system, which would also burden emissions from the energy use of residential buildings and road transport, i.e. citizens. The actual environmental impact of the draft is highly questionable, not taking into account the different circumstances of the Member States, the regulatory environment, the social impact and the views of consumers and small businesses are completely ignored. The inventor of the carbon tax probably thought behind a desk that if taxes on oil-based fuels, petrol and gas oil were rapidly increased, this would immediately encourage consumers to replace their vehicles, thereby eliminating CO2 emissions from vehicles with internal combustion engines. This is all very nice, but the measure will most likely hit the less wealthy, the small entrepreneurs, who cannot immediately buy a cleaner-driven vehicle, and consequently they will pay the price of pollution, which is the least they can do. In my opinion, the proposal has nothing to do with reality, with people's everyday lives, because, in the present foreign policy and economic situation, Europe is still facing a very serious increase in fuel prices, and it would certainly be an unbearable burden for most people if the European Union were to bear an additional tax; rather, it would affect us not only in gas stations, but also in food stores and passenger transport, because of the increased prices of services. Dear Parliament, We cannot go without saying that this kind of thinking has been practiced and exercised by the left. If we think about actions that appear logical on paper, but which are not real and which are not supported by people, then it will never lead to anything good. But I might as well mention Mr. Mayor's idea of banning cars from the docks in Budapest. According to left-wing logic, everyone will walk on foot and stop crowding and exhaust emissions. [[10.20]] But without alternative routes and adequate public transport, the desired result will not be obtained. It'll just be chaos, and the consequences of which are always shared by citizens, like most left-wing ideas. I also see the carbon tax as such an idea, which, in my view, was an unthinkable initiative, and in the present situation it is particularly harmful, since it would impose a disproportionate burden on citizens. In the framework of last year's national consultation, the government asked the Hungarian people what they thought about the issue, and the respondents almost unanimously refused to pay the costs of international industrial pollution to families. Under these circumstances, similar proposals and future proposals are not eligible. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-14-30	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Menczer, State Secretary, will give you the answer to your speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Before I turn to the carbon tax, please allow me to briefly refer back to a, perhaps unworthy, embezzled, left-wing confession, because today our fellow Member from the Kanász-Nagy Máté LMP said that I hope that the end of the cheap petrol age is literally quoted, which is an unexpected honest confession from the left side, and clearly shows that the left would stop the gas stop and support sanctions that would lead to a petrol and gas price of 700-800 forints per litre. On the other hand, the government protects the petrol stop and does not support sanctions that would ruin the Hungarian economy. On the subject raised by the Member, it is clear that what Brussels, the European Commission and Frans Timmermans, a great friend of the Hungarian left, are currently pushing is madness. It's about paying taxes for people who have a house or an apartment, and they dare to heat it, or they have a car, and they use it. With this tax proposal, Brussels and the European Left came up when there is a war in Europe, and there is also an energy price and an energy crisis in Europe due to sanctions in Brussels. At present, the question or not only how much energy, heating and electricity will cost, it is also a very serious issue, but it is now also a question of whether we will have any energy, we can heat Europe, we can remove fuel in the car or we can use electricity. These are questions in Europe; and of course, if there is, how much will it be, this is the second question. Two times, three times, four times, five times in Europe today, as before the war. Hungary is an exception to all of this. In Hungary, energy supply is guaranteed, the Hungarian people pay the least for gas in Europe, and the second cheapest is the price of electricity in Hungary on a European scale. But Brussels and Frans Timmermans, a great friend of the Hungarian left, are also attacking us with the carbon tax proposal. What's this about? In Brussels, the carbon tax is called or spoken of as involving people in the emissions trading system. The emissions trading system. What does the emissions trading system mean? Specifically, it means that you will pay; if you have a car, a house, or an apartment, you will pay. Why are you doing this? With reference to the so-called green transition, Brussels bureaucrats want to achieve the green transition. But how do you want it? So their goal is to eat less, heat less, use less water, and put your car down. It's done by having a war, there are sanctions, there's an energy crisis, and they'd put an extra charge on it, this is the left-wing recipe, and that's what I'm telling you, it's insane. The problem is even more serious if we look at the fact that the Hungarian left also supports it, as Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, said that it is possible to reduce costs: less water needs to be consumed, less electricity needs to be consumed and less gas consumed. So the recipe of the Hungarian left and the recipe of Péter Márki-Zay is exactly the recipe of Timmermans: eat less! Péter Márki-Zay also said that our aim was not to stop global prices at the border. So we don't need to cut the rent. And the Left Prime Minister's candidate also said that you need to feel the increase in energy prices. I mean, once again, Timmermans recipe is a recipe for the Hungarian left, we don't need a reduction in the rent, we can have high prices, we have to feel the increase in energy prices, we have to let in world market prices, and when it comes to that, we can even put a tax on the Hungarian people and everyone else who lives in Europe. Perhaps it is worth noting that anyone who comes up with such a proposal as Frans Timmermans with the support of the Hungarian left may want to hang his jacket and put down the ballpoint pen and choose a profession where he can do less damage. On the contrary, the Hungarian government protects the reduction of the rent, the country's energy security, and we do not vote for any proposals that would destroy the country's economy. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-14-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that we can move forward. Mr János Halász applied for a speech from the Fidesz Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In recent years, there have been huge changes in the world, and it has become clear that the decade ahead will bring us an age of danger: an epidemic, migration, armed conflict and an energy crisis will be present in our lives at the same time. At the 3 April elections, the Hungarian people made a clear decision to expect Hungary to be protected against the dangers. The Hungarians told us that the most important task was to keep Hungary out of the war and not to adopt economic measures that would destroy the Hungarian economy. Dear House, With the budget of 2023, we also protect the results achieved so far, ensure the protection of the reduction of the rent, the security of the country and the Hungarian families, and keep the Hungarian economy on a growth path. To this end, let us establish the Renewal and Defence Funds, the resources of which will be provided by the extra-profit specialists. In the war situation, inflation, price increases and rising interest rates bring unfair extra profit to many large companies and banks. Those who gain profit and profit from the war and the emerging energy crisis are expected to help Hungarian people and contribute to the country's defence costs. There is a war situation, and the price cannot be paid by Hungarian families; large companies have to take on more of the common burden than usual. In addition to the introduction of special taxes, it is very important that the government constantly monitor market developments and do everything in its power to prevent the transfer of extra-profit taxes to the population. For example, some airlines are already attacking the extra-profit tax in an outrageous way. According to the Irish low-cost company Ryanair, the Hungarian government's idea of an extra-profit tax on airlines was more than foolish, and the ticket prices were also increased by the special tax imposed by the government. In particular, according to some news, the company also wants to apply the price increase to the tickets already sold. Large companies, profitable companies producing extra-profits, do not do it for the first time that if they have to take part in additional public burdens after their additional income generated in Hungary, they will be forced to do so to their customers. Not surprisingly, that's what some financial service providers used to do. This is morally unacceptable; that it is a question of legal protection and that it is a question of consumer protection. We therefore welcome the request by Mr Martin Nagy, Minister for Economic Development, for a consumer protection investigation. It is important that the competent authorities of the Government Office examine the matter carefully by virtue of their powers of consumer protection. [[10.30]] Each attempt to pass on shall be thoroughly investigated, with strict action to be taken against any harmful practice. Dear House, The war, the energy crisis and risky Brussels policy threaten household costs, cheap and secure energy supply. Thanks to the reduction of the rent, Hungarian families currently pay the most favourable fees in the European Union. The aim is to continue to maintain the reduction of the rent for the Hungarian population, so we will continue to do everything we can, even if we still cannot count on the left in this fight. If it were up to the Gyurcsánys, everything would be much more expensive, because by now the left would have abolished the reduction in the rent, the gas stop and the food price stop. With left-wing policy, the price of electricity would rise more than three times today, the price of natural gas would rise five and a half times, the price of petrol would rise to 800 HUF, and this would also brutally increase food prices. The left has always only scratched the Hungarian people, they have always taken them away from them. The left is not in favour of the people and the reduction of the rent, but is protecting the banks and the multinationals. Unfortunately, we can see that the left is still not to be expected in anything. On the other hand, the Fidesz fraction also fully supports the fifth Orbán government, which has now been established, in its full power to protect families, maintain the reduction of the rent, and preserve the peace and security of the country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-14-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, Deputy Minister, responds to his speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, after a multi-annual epidemic, we are in a prolonged war situation and we are living in extraordinary times. Moreover, before the outbreak of the war, an energy crisis has already started, which has added to the difficulties and, to top it all, the European Union's misguided sanctions policy has made the situation worse. We have committed four basic things: protecting jobs, protecting families, protecting pensions and protecting the underlying reduction of the rent. The objectives are therefore clear, they have decided, and we must always act in order to achieve them, even in exceptional circumstances. These extraordinary circumstances have led to the fact that there are sectors whose profits have increased significantly in the economic environment caused by the energy crisis and the war situation without any additional performance or additional costs, simply because of the situation and the situation that has arisen, there has been a significant and unexpected extra profit for them. This unplanned extraprofit occurs in many sectors. In the preliminary investigations, we have highlighted eight main groups, such as banks, insurance companies, large networked retail companies, telecommunications companies, pharmaceutical distributors and airlines mentioned by you. The government's intention is to tax the sectors in which, as we have said, extra profit as a result of the war and the energy crisis, without endangering the growth of the economy. Every sector has its own professional basis. For example, for banks, the fact that, in addition to the virtually minimum remuneration of 0.3-0.5 per cent of deposits at the bank, these banks are depositing their money at the moment in 6.5-7 per cent of sovereign debt, i.e. in the State. Even if the natural costs of the banks are excluded, they have obtained a significant additional result for which they did not have to undertake any additional tasks. This is the expected increase in insurance companies, such as the price difference between two types of oil, Brent oil and Ural oil in the energy sector, and the significant processing and commercial benefits generated by the processing of this. In the case of airlines, we have introduced a tax that has been applied for years in many countries, such as Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands, France, Austria or even Italy. We have not previously imposed such a tax on these companies, because we thought that, because of the epidemic situation, this would not have been fair for their traffic which had fallen significantly at the time, but now, with the end of the epidemic, we can expect a significant increase in traffic, which has happened in a welcome way. The government is asking all stakeholders to comply with the rules, to act responsibly and in a legally binding manner. The government thanks all companies that take note of the extra burden on society and participate in covering these burdens. Unfortunately, there is a company that ignores them and carries out a questionable ticket sales exercise. This is considered unacceptable by the Government and, for example, it strongly rejects the practice of passing on Ryanair to extra-profit travellers. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That is why we have initiated proceedings at the Government Office and are awaiting the completion and completion of the procedure of the Government Office. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-14-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I ask my fellow Members to take their seats. It is now 10:37, and we will continue our work with the agenda decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are also deciding on the adoption of a proposal requiring a qualified majority in today's decisions. The resolution house rule is 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. With all due respect, press one of your voting machines now. [[Attendance check.]] There are 182 Members present, 17 are absent. Parliament has a quorum. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the proposals tabled by the President, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of reports. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament, ask the designated Committee for Culture, B/14.The Eötvös Loránd Research Network was submitted entitled "The operation of the 2019-2020 Research Network." For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. [[10.40]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Committee on Culture, as submitted by the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2020 on the activities of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, B/15. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the decision: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable National Assembly to invite the designated Cultural Committee to address the activities of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2021, B/17. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Judicial Committee to report on the activities of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in 2021, B/18. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Economic Committee. The National Media and Infocommunications Authority's activities related to electronic communications and a report on the postal market, B/19. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to address the activities of the Public Procurement Authority in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2021, B/31. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Economic Committee to submit the Parliamentary Report, B/46. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to address the activities of the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities in 2021, B/51. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the President of the National Election Committee to report on the activities of the National Election Committee in the national referendum held on 3 April 2022, B/55. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the President of the National Election Office to report on the organisation and execution of state tasks related to the national referendums held on 3 April 2022, B/56. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to address the National Atomic Energy Office President's Parliamentary Report, B/58. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 49 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to hold a detailed discussion at yesterday's meeting, this meeting will not take place in the T/119 Convention on the Establishment of an Association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, to publish a Protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Final vote of bill No 1. We are now following the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Austria on the termination of the agreement between the Hungarian People's Republic and the Republic of Austria on the promotion and protection of investments. Final vote of bill No 1. Dear House, The rapporteur is T/141/1. The Commission submitted an adjustment to the section of the bill, which contains the official Hungarian translation of the international treaty, to correct a translation error, which can be accessed by all of us on the House's IT network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/141. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 183 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. We now have T/166 on the amendment of individual laws in the fields of defence, economic development and government administration. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/166/6 and T/166/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by our fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The MSZP Group proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by our fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 130 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like a little more patience and more attention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 27, 30, 31, 32 and 34, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. [[10.50]] First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/166/6. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on a further point in the summary amendment requiring a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/166/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/166/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/166/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, representative of I/110. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 131 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Representative János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, I/217. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 129 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Szabolcs Szabó, representative of Momentum, I/212. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP, I/29. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 129 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Congressman István Apáti, representative of Mi Hazan, representative of I/215. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 49 votes against and two abstentions. Congressman Sándor Berki, representative of the Dialogue, I/114. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, I/216. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now up to the election of the notary of the Parliament. On the initiative of the Head of the KDNP faction, Mr Speaker S/267. In his Opinion No.2 he proposed that the Parliament elect Béla Mihálffy as notary of the Parliament instead of József Attila Móring. Dear House, A proposal for amendment to the motion cannot be tabled; Parliament shall decide on the official by open vote and without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Béla Mihálffy as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Béla Mihálffy to the notary of the Parliament with 181 votes in favour, no votes against, with one abstention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to thank Mr József Attila Móring for his 16 years of well done work to help all of us carry out our duties. and to congratulate Mr Béla Mihálffy for his election as a notary on my behalf and on behalf of the Parliament, I wish him good luck in his work. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Dear House, It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. S/266. The decision to make a proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Regulation. The proposal put forward by the President was made available on the website. I now ask Mr István Tiba to explain the content of the personal proposal. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-37	11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament Section 1 of the OGY resolution is hereby amended as follows: Parliament elects Zsolt Herczeg, Fidesz, instead of Róbert Zsigó, Fidesz, Róbert Zsigó, Fidesz, instead of Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz, member of the committee. Point 2 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Zsolt Herczeg, Fidesz, member of the Committee instead of Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz. Point 4 of the OGY resolution is amended as follows: Parliament elects Róbert Zsigó, Fidesz instead of Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz, vice-president of the committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. [[11.00]]
u2022-06-14-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, First, on the basis of points 1, 2 and 4 of the proposal, we decide on the election of the members of the committee, and then, according to point 3 of the proposal, we decide on Commission officials from among the members of the committee. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament that S/266. It shall elect the members of the committees by adopting points 1, 2 and 4. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected the members of the committees with 181 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. I would like to ask the Parliament with respect that S/266. According to point 3 of the proposal No.3, Tamás Herczeg is elected Vice-President of the Committee on National Inclusion from among the members of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Tamás Herczeg, Vice-President of the Committee on National Inclusion, with 181 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Thank you very much for the cooperation of my fellow Members. We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 11.01 11.08 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian)
u2022-06-14-39	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on defence processing until closure. The government referral T/211. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-14-40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The peace and security of Hungary, the protection, protection and security of Hungary is a national matter based on the survival, development of the nation, the enforcement of community and individual rights. I think that we can say that our soldiers have been very good and stand up to many aspects of life today, and with this position they have gained the appreciation of Hungarian society and the Hungarian people. There is a war going on in our neighbourhood, and we are looking at a decade in which we certainly expect security challenges to be a permanent part of our lives in our immediate environment, in our region or even in a broader sense. Our job is to protect Hungarian families, and we must not allow Hungary to fall into this war. Dear Parliament, In the light of the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, the Parliament adopted in the first half of 2021 the Law on the Coordination of Defence and Security Activities, which, with its entry into force on 1 November 2022, establishes the legal basis for a coordinated defence between the national and police forces and the public administration, and, on the other hand, extends the legislation of three new special legal order cases from the Act on Defence and the Hungarian Defence and the Act on measures that can be implemented in the special legal order to replace the current six. [[11.10]] As a result, Hvt became necessary. a complete review of the law on defence and the Hungarian Defence Act will enter into force on 1 November 2021, in connection with which the review of data management rules for defence purposes was also justified. In view of this, a new law on defence data management, on military administrative tasks related to the performance of certain defence obligations, based on current regulations, has been established. Ladies and gentlemen, Our main task is to protect and protect the country, and we must build it, build it, build it further, build a strong, confident, well-equipped, able to fight and fight. This bill, which is before us at the moment, is based on the provisions in force in the law on old military data management, military administrative tasks related to the performance of certain defence obligations, is designed to avoid data loss in the preparation of the regulation, taking into account the legal clarification that has become necessary in the meantime. Dear Parliament, We are on the side of peace, we do not want to be part of this war under any circumstances, and we do nothing to make our country, the territories beyond the border and the Hungarians living there a target. This bill, which lies before us, the clarifications and the redeployment of the legislative parts, is for this purpose, and in view of all this, I ask you to support our bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-14-41	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, My fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, In the previous cycle, we started a reform to renew the defence and security structure of our country. The work is extremely timely and even urgent. If we look back over the last few years, we see that the serious, more serious threats that threaten Hungary's security are coming together, and that they are also putting our defence systems to the test. Migration crisis, pandemic, economic crisis, war, energy crisis, one has not even ended, the other has already been here, and the government has only been able to overcome new challenges within the framework of a special legal order. It has become clear that the structures, the laws which are intended to guarantee the protection and security of Hungary, have reached a certain limit, need to be renewed at systemic level. We all remember that the process started with the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and then continued with the establishment of a framework for defence and security. We adopted XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities just a year ago, on 15 June 2021. Since then, most legislation in the home affairs and defence sectors has been amended, adapting to the new system. The system launch originally planned for next summer seemed justified in the current international context, so everything should be ready by 1 November this year. As part of the process, we adopted the new Defence Act last year, which made it necessary for the 2013 XCVII on defence data management and military management tasks related to the fulfilment of certain defence obligations. a review of the law and its replacement with a new law. This new proposal is now in the form of a bill on defence data management. Knowing the draft, it can be said that a uniform, transparent piece of legislation, which fits well into the newly created defence and security structure, will replace the previous one. The new law does not generate new data management, it is based on the current legislation in force in the field. The only major addition was mentioned last year when the new Defense Act was negotiated. The new Data Management Act takes over the current Defence Act III/A. The President This chapter contains data management rules on defence preparation, protection of countries and compliance with certain national defence obligations for bodies involved in defence, so it is obvious that it should be part of the Data Management Act. The proposal can be said to properly limit data controllers, reporting agents and responsibilities; corrects minor errors in the application of the current legislation; properly integrates the protection of data in the new defence and security system; updates the rules of the data management law currently in force. I believe it is right that, in relation to the changes envisaged by the proposal and which also appear in the specific data processing processes, the relevant members of the defence staff should be properly prepared. It is only in this way that the smooth provision of data management processes can be ensured. The Fidesz fraction supports the proposal. I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this proposal. I trust that in this new cycle we can engage in constructive and constructive debates on the subject of defence and law enforcement [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes. Dr. Agnes Vadai: We will!]] recommendations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-14-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ágnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-44	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dad, it's going on! T/211 on defence data management Bill No.1 in a country where there are transparent relations, where citizens are respected, where speech, freedom of expression, protection of sensitive data, it works, it works, it also goes, there is control, control of power, and not the power wants to control citizens, it would be an endlessly boring debate, although you have contributed to this debate. At the same time, if someone reads the general justification, which was also short, as short as the Secretary of State's expozee, he sees that this may be a technical amendment. [[11.20]] I would like to quote you from this general explanation. The Hvt. As a result of its review, the III/A, which regulates the processing of organs involved in defence in relation to defence preparation, protection of countries and the fulfilment of certain defence obligations, became necessary. However, it is appropriate to continue to regulate this subject at the level of law. In view of this, Hvt became necessary. III/A Reinforcing Chapter 3 of the Act on data processing for defence purposes, which is XCVII of 2013 on the current data protection management and military management tasks related to the performance of certain defence obligations. Act by redefining this bill contains and the rest, and so on. So it would seem to the kind reader and to the superficially reading MPs that this is indeed a simple, technical amendment. At the same time, in recent weeks, and it is not possible to ignore the earlier decision on the termination of the military service in 2004 that has not been taken by the Fidesz politicians and the KDNP faction, which have less and less defined the events and circumstances of the past weeks, has been increasingly challenging. We listened here in Parliament to the fact that the military service would certainly be useful, and what a sin it was that left-wing governments knew in the last eight years, so left-wing governments suspended the military service in peacetime. At a campaign event in Kiskunhalas, he agreed that young people today could use a six-month military service. There the minister recalled that, in the past, when the young man knocked on the door of the house, the father-in-law asked him that Lajoska, you had been a soldier before, and if the answer was not, they told you to come back when you had finished the service. The minister then continued his monologue, adding to his not-so-built remark that he would appeal to the ladies to reject the young man if he had not fulfilled his obligation. Of course, before 3 April, you denied at all possible forums that in any way I would like to return the military service in peacetime, and even more so, you told lies that the current opposition is the one who wants to take the young Hungarians to the military. And then this law arrives. This law, by the way, was no longer served as a soldier, but was later presented by Tibor Benkő as a politician, but by a minister who had a personal interest in arms in the past, and, moreover, jointly, created a company or business with the Russians. If you take into account the fact that in order to protect the country, although we have experience of this, what it means when you protect something, you see that you place HUF 670 billion in the regulatory fund, while at the same time you put HUF 872 billion in the Hungarian Defence Fund. In English: To preserve the well-being of Hungarian citizens, I think it will be worth rethinking this after the 400 HUF euro yesterday, but they want to put 872 billion HUF into the Hungarian Defence Fund. True, and it should be said that between 2010 and 2015, you spent 1 percent of GDP on the Hungarian Defence Forces, so basically they bled out the Hungarian Defence Forces in technical and personal terms. From 15 to 18 they started designing the program, which is now only Zrinyi's program, because 2026 fell off it, obviously because these plans and these developments need to be rescheduled. After 2018, we really saw that some concept, which no one could explain, and no one could see, was being bought insanely, along the lines of some concept; these were generally political types of purchases. And now it is possible to decide that from now on, all data relating to the Hungarian Defence Service relating to the development, the number of people and all other cases, which are generated at the defence wallet, will be kept secret for ten years. The bill itself is about a wide variety of registers within the Hungarian Defence Office, and I think it is okay to have such a register. At the same time, it gives the reader the impression, especially for those who do little about the activities of the Hungarian Defence Service, that there is nothing here to see that everything is really very well, we are just continuing the work. At the same time, and this is very important after the first introductory, interpretive provisions, it says that a database should be established on men between 18 and 50 resident in Hungary who are Hungarian nationals, not only for the purpose of military commitment, but also for recruitment into the voluntary reserve. This database, which you want to create, contains so much data, there is so much in it that in the Ministry of Defence you will probably know more about these men, these Hungarian men than they may know themselves. What's wrong with all of this? The first and most important question is why, right now, and I ask you not to come here and say that because this fits into that line, we have seen that it takes you two minutes to amend the granite-solid Fundamental Law. The question is why they want to create a comprehensive database of health data, qualifications, language examinations, all-inclusive data that they want to use for recruitment and not just for military engagement. I'd like to ask you the question you've had so much before April 3rd: perhaps you'd like to introduce the military service? Or do you want to send the sons, the brothers, the fathers, the husbands to war? For whose sake? Who should we go to fight for? Why is it necessary now that the volunteer reserveer and here the, voluntarily, would know about any Hungarian male between 18 and 50 who is permanently resident in Hungary about his illness in order to get the focus into the system. These are extremely sensitive data. Next thing you know, there's a problem with this whole bill, and especially this part of it, it's obviously just to repeat the paper can handle a lot of things. Earlier, men between 18 and 40 were involved in the military service or this type of military commitment, and I'm sorry, so the military obligation was for men between 18 and 40. In the past, you obviously raised this age limit by ten years and you can see that perhaps not only for the purpose of military commitment, but also for the purpose of creating a voluntary reserve system, or perhaps because you want to reinstate the military service and test the people, the voters, what they think about it, they obviously did so in order to increase the number of military commanders on paper. This is what we have seen in recent years, the way in which the Hungarian Defence Forces tried to shape their activities on paper, this was particularly true between 2010 and 2018. The third reason why there is a problem with this bill is this permanent residence in Hungary. Consider an example: Oxford Sanyi versus Transylvanian Jozsi. Sanyi of Oxford is a resident Hungarian citizen who lives in Oxford. Erdélyi Józsi is a Hungarian citizen, but he does not have a permanent residence in Hungary. You obviously agree with me and you must agree, because your own laws state that, in terms of nationality, in terms of its content, there should be no difference in rights and obligations. So the defence of the country has said this quite rightly, the Secretary of State, said it many times on a national matter. If you want to vote, you have to register every four years, every vote, you have to travel, you have to line up at the embassy, you have a consulate, and you have 13 hours to vote on who will shape his fate. You can't vote in a letter, you can't vote without registration, if you don't get there or the embassy door closes in front of you, you can't vote even if you're registered, even if you were there. Sanyi of Oxford is a permanent resident in Hungary, but she just decided to go to Oxford to study, see if she could gather more knowledge there for the benefit of the country. On the other hand, Józsi Erdélyi is also a Hungarian citizen and does not have a permanent residence in Hungary. He must register once, and then never again, and we have experienced and seen that in an election, even his family members can vote in a letter instead. He, when the country is in trouble, has no obligation like Sanyi. [[11.30]] In Hungarian, we see that the rights and obligations are not in balance, because the right to vote is due to the voter, if he is a Hungarian citizen, but if he does not have a permanent residence in Hungary, then he does not need to defend his country. We don't think that's okay. Protection of the country is linked to citizenship, not to where everyone is at a given moment. This debate has been held before, in particular with regard to the issue of permanent residence in Hungary. Unfortunately, neither the defence wallet nor the Fidesz and KDNP fractions were able to respond to why this was done. Finally, it is also a fundamental problem, and this is the biggest problem, that this register will also be created for the voluntary reserve system, in which, as I mentioned, sensitive health data will come into play, which completely goes against the principle that it is a voluntary system. So we would expect the Secretary of State to answer how it is possible in a voluntary reserve system, to which voters, if they do so, would otherwise come out of their own volition, why they want to reach these people, even by storing their health data and other personal data. Why do people who haven't applied yet have to be registered? Shouldn't we be keeping records of people who have already applied to this voluntary reserve system? Annex 6 describes in detail the type of data you are asking for, and you act very friendlyly with the voter, as they say they do not want to disturb the citizen, then they will, and these data are automatically requested from different authorities and companies. In fact, these authorities and companies must submit this information automatically and continuously. You record these data both on paper and electronically. So it is quite obvious that the constitutional protection of purpose and personal data is not guaranteed by this law. However, I would like to ask you, towards the end, a real, very important question: how do you intend to protect these data, by the way? Excuse me, the following news has come to light in recent years: you have not been able to protect catalysts, they have simply been stolen from the Hungarian Defence Office. You in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have not been able to protect the particularly important EU NATO data, because simply the Russians have penetrated the most secret system. And the most beautiful thing was when you organized a national consultation, the sokadi, and on the national consultation website, the code of the Russian company Yandex was the code of the Russian company that, by the way, regularly transmits personal data to Russian intelligence. I would like to ask how and how you intend to protect the most internal, protected data of Hungarian men between 18 and 50. I do not see the possibility of this, especially in the light of the fact that you are most happy to use Pegasus spy software against your own citizens. Therefore, this bill cannot be supported in this form. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-14-45	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-46	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the previous term, Parliament adopted the XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities. a law which will enter into force on 1 November of this year. The aim of the law is to protect, maintain and improve the security of Hungary and the Hungarian nation, as well as to ensure that our respective interests and capabilities are managed and operated in a coordinated and effective manner. In addition, the objective of Article XXI shall be to: Addressing the multifaceted and complex challenges and threats of the security environment of the 20th century, strengthening a comprehensive approach to the time of crisis management and special legal order, as well as to threats, harm, influence and attack based on natural, civilisational events and acts. This is in order to have a legal basis for coordinated defence, between the defence and police forces and between the administration. We have already answered the siren voices of Ms Ágnes Vadai, which we have just heard. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Wow!]] In the legislative proposal, the legislator set a priority objective of avoiding data loss, and the proposal also contains the necessary technical clarifications, which have already been explained in detail by the national Ministry of Defence, Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, in his exposé. In addition to the above, the data processing of the bodies involved in defence has been updated in relation to defence preparation, protection of countries and the fulfilment of certain defence obligations. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary faction of KDNP supports T/211 on defence data management. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-14-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Sas, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2022-06-14-48	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill regulates the management of data related to the operation of the Hungarian Defence Service in a very wide range of ways. It covers everything from the military to the use of motor vehicles to the consolidation of documentary discipline. These are, of course, very important factors for efficient and transparent operation. The adoption of previous legislation justifying the establishment of the bill was voted by the majority of Parliament, so the subject of today's debate is the proposal before us and not the reopening of previous debates. The Hungarian defence issue is, in my view, a national matter, an issue that must be above party policy objectives. It is a Hungarian national issue, but it is worth learning all the proposals most thoroughly, and confronting and clarifying disputes before we accept and decide. Article 15 of the proposal. §2 of the Act concerns the registration of those subject to war. The past period, including the Russian-Ukrainian war in particular, has proved that peace in Europe is fragile and, unfortunately, broken. We must therefore also develop appropriate, effective and feasible action plans and update them so that, if the situation so requires, we can act without delay. This section is therefore one of the most important parts of the proposal. I have to say that this is a forward-thinking, planning part, because if the war situation does not occur, then the country's existence is at stake, and it is not possible for decision-makers to have the data discussed in this section that are necessary for the necessary decisions, because without it, they can only guess who they are who can be involved in the defense, and let us also admit that the time has passed over the throwaway method of the judges. Of course, I am also sure, ladies and gentlemen, that we must hold the debates necessary for the adoption of this proposal, but it is also a fact that these will be the least important issues in the event of a possible war, because it will be a matter of utmost importance for us, and this will be the protection of the country. To do this, we will need Hungarian patriots with Hungarian citizenship. But let's hope that doesn't happen. The proposal is set at 75. Paragraph 3 of the Act concerns the registration of housing aids; paragraph 3 would quote:. The housing support bodies shall treat the documents submitted to them during their administration and the documents generated in the exercise of their powers for fifty years after the closure of the administration. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With all due respect, why is the 50-year term necessary, what is the purpose of this? The veteran register is the proposal 78. Article 4a of the Regulation, in which the data transmitted to the controller pursuant to point (b) of paragraph 4 may be used if the data subject wishes to participate in the procedure. Here, of course, the appreciation of veterans beyond service time must be recognised to a large extent. [[11.40]] At the same time, the proposal includes the question of what happens if the person concerned does not wish to participate, or if he does not wish to participate in this cooperation after a period of time, in this case what happens and what happens to the data processed by the controller. Biometric data processing is proposed in 93. It is governed by Article 5 of the Act, which supports the strengthening of the counter- and intelligence capabilities of military national security services. In today's modern world, this is a skill that is indispensable, its effectiveness is indisputable, and it is also an established practice by several members of our federal system, so it is important that the designated units of the defence have this capacity in the manner laid down by law. At the same time, I believe that a more specific appearance of data management objectives in this regulation could be desirable. The entry into force of the proposal, with regard to the entry into force of the new Defence Act, has shown a significant difference, which we have managed to resolve with the adoption of today's T/166 proposal; let us add that serious legal problems could have occurred if we had not accepted, let us say, this proposal, I know that there was no chance. In this connection, however, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I hope that the defence and its personnel are fully prepared to operate under the law, because the new defence law and this current proposal will be put into effect eight months earlier. Dear fellow Members, As I have already said, the protection of the country is a national matter and, in the case of the proposals that help and support it, the national unity would be very welcome. I know that the pro-government majority guarantees the adoption of this proposal, but believe me, it is a consensus decision where the proposal also has the support of opposition parties, if not legally but morally, it could give much more legitimacy. Previously, it was a practice to have multi-party discussions on such important issues in advance, which I believe was forward-looking and improved the effectiveness of the debate, since during the discussions opposition representatives also had the opportunity to make their views known, and indeed some points of these positions were included in the proposals. I am aware that the majority in the government are not in need of this, but I could do that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-14-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Harangozó, lead speaker of the MSZP Group, is now taking part. You have the floor.
u2022-06-14-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Defence is a national matter. We hear a lot of this, you have been saying a lot lately, and in the war situation, perhaps the neighbouring Ukrainians can and can feel on their own skin how much it does not matter to be political, pro-government or opposition, but one that matters that our country, our values, our loved ones must be protected. In peacetime, though, honourable Members, it is primarily up to the majority, especially the two-thirds majority in Parliament. It is simply because of the nature of the matter that those in the minority do not have the means, in this respect, to really be a national consensus in conciliation, for example, the adoption or even the vote of a law. As for the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law in recent years, the new Hvt., the new Defense Act, we see the exact opposite of this process. Encryptions, detention from information, continuous reduction of Parliament's role and decision-making position. I think the most symbolic of the new Fundamental Law is the abolition of the Defence Council, which is about the fact that in a real war situation, the leaders of the parliamentary factions, i.e. the opposition and the ruling party, all political forces elected by the people, must sit at the same table and protect the country together, involve everyone in this work. Well, you're gonna end this institution with this new law, this new Basic Law, this new Defense Act, and you're gonna say that Parliament, especially the opposition, has nothing to do with the country, has nothing to do with the nation, has nothing to do with defending the country, and we're gonna do this here smart, the government, everyone else shuts up. We do not think that this is a good direction, and I said this in the introduction because, by the way, this bill would typically be what it is likely to be, after some correction, a hundred percent could or should be voted in this Parliament. Because, in fact, this bill is all about what is the most basic and necessary data management rules for defence, especially in the event of war, on the basis of which mobilization can be organised in such a very difficult situation, and on the basis of which our countrymen can be involved in the defence of the country. There's nothing wrong with that, anyone on the government, that law should be passed. In addition to all this, which my better fellow Member has raised, we still believe that this proposal cannot be voted on, not even under the circumstances, and I would like to mention two very specific cases to which I would like to draw the attention of the member of the government who is sitting here. Under the rules already in force, there are two cases that have already been criticised in writing by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information and has made it clear in writing that they do not comply with Hungarian laws and EU rules. I wouldn't bore the nice spectators or the people sitting here with the very specific case. One of them also provides for a 50-year data management rule, to which NAIH itself states that the case of purpose-boundness here simply cannot physically exist, why the state should retain a certain data circle for 50 years. The second is in particular: the data stored in the entry systems of defence objects requires the data to be stored for a period of 15 years from anyone who has entered a defence object only in any case; and I think that it would be possible to bring in what my fellow Member Sas has brought here as a novelty. Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask you to present these issues as an amending proposal, if you do not like opposition amendments, resolve them by the governing party itself or by the majority of the Commission. But you understand that you are not above the law. The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, which, let's say, is difficult to accuse by opposition, is part of the current constitutional arrangement, says and writes to you that they are not compatible with Hungarian laws, then you must change that. Otherwise, what we're doing here doesn't make any sense, because you can bring in the right of the first night, and I wish you a good day, and you'll vote by a majority. I ask the Secretary of State to allow, if not with a full consensus, but even a sweeping majority of Parliament to vote for this law, for example, regardless of the side. We have all the conditions for this to be taken into account by the criticisms described by their own state authority, Mr State Secretary, the NAIH/2019/7495/2, and the NAIH/2020/7765/2. This text will be improved in line with the resolution of the two pieces, and we will be able to support it on our part. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-06-14-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr President Novák, the lead speaker of the group of our country. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The 134-page bill on defence data management is trying to make it some kind of technical salad law, but unfortunately there is much more to it. For example, there is the sentence that, for the purpose of ensuring the introduction of the military commitment and the recruitment of the voluntary reserve staff, untrained military officers, those subject to war must be registered in a peace period and in a special legal order. This would also be appropriate, at least according to the Hungarian Movement, but the fact that information on the admission of vaccination is also recorded during a period of peace or an extraordinary legal order in order to ensure the introduction of a military obligation raises serious questions. [[11.50]] For example, it was a good idea to send virtually soldiers and policemen who refused to inject themselves with experimental vaccines on the basis of the principle of health self - control. In particular, I am also asking the Secretary of State, which has, of course, been encrypted since 2016. In the past, I have received regular answers to my written question about exactly how many people are missing from the army's army's staff, what the rank distributions are like. Since then, if the Minister or a Secretary of State thinks he will drop a number or two, of course there will be no proceedings against them at this time, but otherwise these are classified information, something has changed since 2016. But without specific numbers, we know that, in fact, it is common knowledge that there is a very serious shortage of military personnel. In this case, it is a particularly big mistake, a crime to exclude those who did not wish to take these vaccinations from the army and declare them unfit for active service. In fact, although the law does not cover it, our experience is that, unfortunately, there is also a worldview identity, worldview belief, political sympathy about Hungarian citizens in peacetime, about all Hungarian citizens who are under war. And when, perhaps, out of patriotic motivation or manly challenge, from any motivation, they come to the army as well as to the voluntary reserve, we often find that they are rejected and excluded on the basis of this as a national security risk. I trust that the new defense leadership will change this practice. Perhaps it is such an infinite naivety that I always expect this from the newer and newer minister, but in any case, I call to the attention of the Secretary of State for this unsustainable practice, which will not otherwise be based on the law, since the law on defence data management does not mention that the political and philosophical beliefs of citizens, especially the patriots, would be recorded. However, on a written question, we have already drawn the Minister's attention to the fact that we can provide concrete examples of how to exclude a person from the defence on this basis. Let us then also ask the question that given this permanent emergency, or at least seriously, given the lack of a permanent number of people, it would not have been good to hire those national emotional young people who were eventually driven away from the defence because of their national radical attachment. Will more radical patriots also be driven away in Ukraine when they apply to be soldiers? And can anyone who hasn't been vaccinated not wear a uniform in Ukraine, by the way? Don't be ridiculous. In particular, it is spicy to say indirectly that, although there is a military obligation, it is not suitable for military service, i.e. there is no obligation of war by those who do not inoculate themselves. Well, it's as easy as ever to get out of a military commitment. I think it's a very bad direction, and that needs to be changed. And if, in the case of law enforcement workers and police officers, there is finally no vaccination and there is no decommissioning ban, then these two restrictions should be put an end to the current situation within the framework of the defence. The best thing is that right now, they don't let them work and serve the soldiers who are uninoculated, but they don't let them get rid of them, at least in civilian life, so they practically die of hunger, him and their families. And this double restriction is still guarded by the fact that it should not be decommissioned, but it is not technically paid by soldiers who are uninoculated. How big a problem there is with recruitment, and let's recall a case from 2016 because, as I said, there are no public figures anymore, but I can quote one more. After the construction of the border fence, at the peak of the migrant crisis, in September 2015, 436 people were interested in a voluntary reserve army, and so many of us were interested at the time. I asked for this monthly data when I applied myself. In the end, only 83 of us submitted our application for a voluntary reserve defense investigation. Only 66 persons were left for the fitness test. Finally, nine of us, as a voluntary operational reserve, entered into contracts after the month-long procedure. So, when the public opinion of the defence was perhaps at the top after the migrant crisis in September 2015, in one month so many people were able to reach the conclusion of the contract, more precisely from a month's registration, nine of the 436 registered interested parties were finally able to conclude contracts. This raises serious concerns about the operation of the defence and its recruitment system, its bureaucracy, that nine out of 436 registered interested parties will eventually reach the conclusion of the contract after months. No wonder they tried to solve this problem with some kind of encryption, because the encrypted numbers would reveal that the retention power of the defence is unfortunately lacking, although it would be good to dig into these numbers and see what the departures are, the cause of the disarmaments. However, there is a need to fill up the shortage of numbers, because according to the Fundamental Law, all Hungarian citizens are rightly obliged to protect their country, but the state does not provide the basic training required for this, even though in a war situation they would now enlist those who were never soldiers, and thus their chances of survival would be lower. Unfortunately, the protection of Hungary is not guaranteed in the current state of defence. The termination of the military service that had been bleeding from several wounds in the past has been a serious blow to our country's self-defense force, as the providers of its task system have not been fully replaced. Our NATO membership involved giving up our independence, serving most American interests, that's what we're saying. The alliance will not protect us from another NATO Member State. Although our contractual obligation would only be to help to protect it if a Member State was attacked, because of the overzealousness of our governments so far, we have been involved in several foreign occupations, such as Afghanistan, in order to mention a nasty failure, our developments in the military industry have taken this aspect into consideration instead of defending the country, until, for example, there was enough money available for the necessary military exercises in Hungary. In particular, on the current bill before us once again, I would like to highlight the unacceptable, a little too strict definition of the veteran soldier, as it would mean that he could be a veteran soldier who, among other things, emerged from the defence in a manner worthy of him. Is it fitting that someone who, say, left the army in some way because of the refusal to take the vaccine? We could press this question, but let us press the second part of the sentence: the one who is morally impeccable. I think that we should not raise such a strict standard, at least not since Jesus'teaching, because we remember how he said in the Gospel: let the one who is sinless cast the first stone on him, therefore, essentially, who is morally impeccable. And we remember how the story ended, how the crowd slowly dissipated, and there was no one left but the guilty woman and Jesus himself. So I also think, by heeding this teaching, that we should not raise such a strict condition that only a veteran soldier can be morally impeccable. We are not without sin, and even serious acts of heroism may have been carried out by our veteran soldiers, so I think that an amendment, a nuance, a finer wording would be more justified here. Of course, I would also like to reject the rumours with which Balliberal opposition representatives often scare against such billings, painting the devil on the wall, democracy, who knows how often it is buried. One of the most memorable moments in recent months has been spreading rumors, especially about six months ago, to send the military with a fire order to protesters. Thousands of people shared the false rumor, which, by the way, shows the responsibility of Tamás Harangozó, according to which a platoon of soldiers would automatically be deployed for a 50-person demonstration in the future. We who lived in the Gyurcsány regime to drown our freedoms in mud and even blood [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] On 23 October 2006, I was also unlawfully produced and even after five different cases, the court ruled definitively that it was unlawfully produced; so we know what it is like to limit our rights to assembly. But such alarm would not be necessary as this confusing internal draft, which was wanted here on the Internet, against which there were undoubtedly two laws voted here on the agenda in December, which raise questions, but not those which were not ashamed of Tamás Harangozó as the successor of the MSZMP. [[12.00]] He intimidated me in the parliamentary debate, and I quote that they practically allow the Hungarian Defence Forces to be systematically deployed in peacetime, even against civilians. But they had a prime minister, Gyula Horn, who held the Hungarian revolutionaries at gunpoint, so they shouldn't have gone this far, but this kind of alarm, I don't think it's necessary. This was not the case against the criticism and alarm he expressed in December, let alone systematically, but never once, to use the defence against civilians. Thus, the Hungarian Movement does not threaten such a thing, but we have said no to the two laws that have previously been in force and to the amendment of the basic law for a reason, because under the new laws, the government can no doubt order the assistance of the defence to carry out the related police tasks, such a vague wording is in front of us. For example, the capture of particularly dangerous persons can now be a military task, which raises the legitimate question of what the Counter-Terrorism Centre, for example, has. Of course, so far, there have been numerous examples of domestic law enforcement in the army, and in order to protect the honour of the mundé, in order to protect our comrades, we say that these civilian military missions carried out under police control were mostly justified and successful. Border control is the most well-known place to serve with police officers, and in any case, the patrol officer is still a member of the police force, regardless of the rank. But in order to protect our comrades, let me give you a few more examples, such as the red sludge disaster. Although disaster control is supposed to be working perfectly, it still took the defense to save it. Or the famous snow situation in March: although the OMSZ and the Hungarian road operator are supposed to be absolutely super, the defence was necessary. Or in the flood: while the water sector and disaster management are supposed to be on top of it, they couldn't do it without the defence. It is worth highlighting the southern border that although the police have allegedly taken over the role of border guards without a problem, without the defence it seems that they will not succeed. Then there's a disaster here, finding and highlighting the Mermaid's wreckage: disaster control and TEK supposedly managed the operation perfectly, but it's as if it didn't work without the defence. And I could also mention the Covid, not with a good heart, because health and vaccination are supposed to work, but we still needed the defense against the virus to line up gunfighters. But let me give you an example that may cause many to stumble, but I think it may be necessary, as a result of Olaszliszka, Yasapáti, Chenye. It is said that in two weeks there has been order, but if our country were to depend on the Movement, there would still be a task for the military in the so-called no-go zones. So the idea of using the military in civil matters is not from the devil, and this obviously raises questions about data processing. The other issue is that the current government, unfortunately, is now using the defence for political intimidation. For example, last year, the police tried to stop my press conference presenting the candidate for Parliament of Hungary with a five-man unit confirmed by a gunman in Zalaegerszeg. Although absurdly forbidden the statement in front of our country's office, they could no longer take action in the party room. Well, therefore, the Hungarian Movement is doing everything in its power to ensure that unfortunately the Hungarian defences in Afghanistan, Iraq and similar occupations do not serve anti-popular, party-political goals, as unfortunately, the Balliberal side against the Hungarian people during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai regime was used mainly by the police, but should serve the Hungarian nation's cause. And about the bill, if nothing else, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Perhaps we can still agree... - which I will only be able to explain in a normal speech on an amending proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2022-06-14-53	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes of Vadai, please.
u2022-06-14-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It has been said so many times in relation to the protection of the Hungarian Defence and Homeland, that it is a national matter, that I think it must be clarified, because in this case, we basically agree that the protection of the country is a national matter. Obviously, you, my fellow members of the Government, mean that in this case the country includes those who did not support you, and that includes all those who do not necessarily have permanent residence in Hungary, but who do have Hungarian citizenship. I think this issue needs to be cleared up very quickly. I agree with those who say that the law and duty of all Hungarian citizens must be similar, and I support it, and I fully agree that the protection of the country requires that all citizens, who are otherwise capable, are able to defend their country in their own way, particularly in exceptional situations. This is not the basic objection to the law, but, for example, to extend the database, which is created in the interest of this protection, to recruit the voluntary reserve staff. We have seen the end of when voters and Hungarian citizens voluntarily provided information about this, not even this, because they automatically collect this information, because it was precisely because of the outbreak caused by Covid-19, and based on the fact that when you collected the different e-mail addresses, the different contact details from voters, these email addresses and information were then used not for this information, but simply handed over to Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda, who then bombed Hungarian citizens with all kinds of propaganda texts. I'm afraid that no matter how much they try to say that it's a closed system, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There will be a flow of information, given the history of data processing, that will not happen, and these data can easily be transferred to the propaganda industry and will be used for their own political purposes. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-14-55	Thank you. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech will be held by Mr President Novak, Mr Mi Hazank.
u2022-06-14-56	Mr. Secretary. The draft law on defence data management needs to be improved 128. It does not contain the law in that particular paragraph. That's 54. § 2 (2) provides for the expiry of point (c) of paragraph 2, but it does not state what law it is, and this is still the previous, 127. It does not appear from the provisions of Section 2 as it provides for the repeal of the full law on data protection in the field of defence. So this is about something else, but they forgot what it was about. I therefore ask that this be clarified in the Legislative Committee with a proposal for an amendment. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-14-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There is now room for further speeches by Members. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if you would like to answer the debate... [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-06-14-58	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for all the contributions made by my fellow Members on the bill before us. Many other things have been said, which have certainly already been said, and have been said in the debate on other laws. In the first half of 2021, the Parliament adopted the law on the coordination of defence and security activities, but this was already an adopted law. Those speeches concerning this law, thank you, of course. The NAIH has been consulted, but if my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó does not believe that the Office of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information does not agree with some of his opinions, we will, of course, look at this, as I thank my former colleague Novák for his comment and that if the text is wrong, we will of course improve it. [[12.10]] Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, as we hear so often from the left, sees things in the text that are not. It seems that thinking on the left is so typical that if they want to do something, they are going to put it on the other side, saying that we on the other side would like to do it while they are preparing for it. In the election campaign, neither did our site build a prohibited database and keep it on foreign servers, so I think such assumptions come from this way of thinking. So they have no legal basis, and neither does this bill say anything about the line of obligations that they ended in 2004. The fact that the data must be recorded when it comes to military requirements, I think it is perfectly natural, and in the case of those who are bound to war, when a state of war comes into force, and in the case of candidates for voluntary reserve service, there is a need for the knowledge given by these data to the Hungarian Defence Office, because without this knowledge, it is very, very difficult to determine who is fit for what service. By the way, the defense minister's intention is to open the gates as wide as possible for volunteers, to enter through the door as wide as possible, and when they come in, the ability to decide what service can be performed. We don't want to artificially narrow this door, this gate. Everyone is expected by the Hungarian Defence Office for professional, voluntary or contractual service. Thank you very much for your contributions, and thank you very much if my fellow Members will support the proposal when we vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-14-59	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The report on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2021 and the report on the operation of the institution for Parliament, together with the joint general debate on the proposal for a resolution on its adoption, will follow. Report submitted by the State Audit Office B/24. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Committee, H/201. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to welcome President László Domokos, President of the SAO, and give the floor first to President László Domokos, rapporteur of the report. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2022-06-14-60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We all feel that we are in the middle of changes and processes that are already challenging, in fact they have huge potential. I am pleased to say to you that, taking advantage of these opportunities, we have already made digital, technological and methodological changes in the State Audit Office during the pandemic, we have significantly increased our control coverage, we have broadened our analytical activities, and which has further increased the utilisation of our activities, and we have also strengthened our role in preparing and supporting the leaders of the audited organisations. In our lives, in addition to the politically-based, otherwise-deprived attacks, an increasing number of letters of appreciation have also been published from many areas of society. Dear Parliament, The Act on the State Audit Office states that each year the President of the State Audit Office shall provide the National Assembly with information on the activities of the organisation in the previous year and on the measures taken on the basis of the audit findings, as well as on the operation and management of the institution in an annual report audited by an independent auditor. In accordance with this legal requirement, on 12 May 2022, we submitted to Parliament an information document on the activities and operations of the State Audit Office in 2021, which also describes our work, achievements and experiences and conclusions in last year. This is available in electronic form, but also in printed form, if necessary. I trust you've had the opportunity to learn about this over the last few days. The SAO, as the financial and economic control body of the Parliament, fulfilled its statutory function, has carried out its planned tasks in the last year, such as monitoring the implementation of the central budget, the management of public finances, the use of resources from public finances and the management of national assets. Last year, the Court's extensive audit and evaluation and advisory activities focused on different focus areas, which were defined on the basis of previous years' experience and the statutory obligations imposed on the Court of Auditors, taking into account current public financial risks. In our guide, we have organized our professional experience around the following focus areas in five points, following the practice already applied in previous years. On the one hand, the activities of the State Audit Office for the development and consolidation of integrity; secondly, the control of national wealth management and financial management, the dissemination of good practices; thirdly, the audit experience and exploitation of compliance with the accounting system of public finances; fourthly, the development of the system of performance audits; and fifthly, the assessment of budgetary and macroeconomic processes and the deduction of conclusions. Based on the feedback, I can say that our findings and proposals in the course of audits have made the use of public funds more transparent and effective in many areas. As a result, the State Audit Office has also contributed to the efficient functioning of institutions and systems with public functions. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Between the outbreak of the pandemic in Hungary and the closure of the fifth wave of the epidemic, priorities have changed around the world, including the Court of Auditors. As the risks of non-compliances, violations and abuses threatening integrity-based operation have increased in an emergency, the provision of the Parliament's control function has become more important than ever. During the epidemiological situation, the Court of Auditors carried out its statutory tasks in the light of these priorities in order to protect human life and health, to support the effectiveness of the control of the epidemic, to reduce the vulnerability of the economy and society and to safeguard public wealth. In support of the sustainability of the well-managed state, we have guarded the preservation and enforcement of the public financial guarantee elements of the rule of law. The SAO's aim in the past year was to inform the public and the legislative bodies in a transparent, professional and understandable manner about issues relating to public funds and public assets. It is essential that all segments of society, including, above all, government decision-making, are informed on the basis of validated data, based on credible information. The pandemic has also pointed out that the relationship between sound information and social trust is extremely close. In the information noise surrounding us, it is a clear task of the Court of Auditors, as an independent body working for the common good, to carry out real, evidence-based, objective, professional assessments, thus ensuring credible and uninfluenced information that is essential for the growth of sustainability, competitiveness and social confidence. [[12.20]] The essence of our work is to promote transparency in public finances through objective Court evaluations based on facts and evidence, thus contributing to a well-managed state, as the law provides for the Court of Auditors and public trust. It was an extremely important innovation of the Court of Auditors, which was unique in the international arena, that for the first time this year not only the Parliament reported its professional activities, but also a brochure for the domestic population. The retail brochure concerns areas that are important for society that we have been able to contribute to a more effective, higher quality of operation with the monitoring, analysis and support activities of the past period. We are currently working to get our publication to a wide range of people, as it is important for us that citizens also learn about the work by which the Court of Auditors contributes to the safety of their day-to-days, to improving their quality of life and to the development of the domestic economy. The success of our efforts, the results of our professional opening up to the general public and the social use of our activities will be presented by the Court of Auditors in our report next year. Dear Parliament, The Parliament confirmed the need for our knowledge-sharing and advisory activities in its resolution adopted on 15 June 2021. He said that he was in favour of strengthening the Court of Auditors' advisory role in order to improve the legality of the public financial situation, the effectiveness of public tasks and the strengthening of public confidence. Accordingly, from last year onwards, the Court of Auditors has placed particular emphasis on its statutory advisory activity and its development. We have made use of a wide range of knowledge-sharing initiatives, including analyses, knowledge-sharing conferences, seminars and leadership trainings, as well as new self-tests, from which, regardless of the date of the checks, the leaders of the organisations concerned could learn about the conditions that were needed. This has clearly opened the way for all to fill the gaps. We have published good practices, and we have worked on our educational audit experience in case studies. The purpose of the advisory activities of the State Audit Office is to transfer knowledge, share good practices and improve the use of public financial and management knowledge among public financial system organisations and managers. By doing so, we not only helped but also facilitated the work of the checkers. Based on the experience of our controls, we have launched an online training series for notaries, heads of local government institutions and economic leaders, as well as for public bodies, as well as for the leaders of the central subsystem. After all, our online training supporting the deepening of professional knowledge was carried out by the leaders of 778 organisations, some one and a half times more than in the previous year. I think it is important to stress that our knowledge-sharing opportunities have addressed, in order, organisations whose tasks are multi-faceted and affect a wide range of society and citizens' everyday lives. Last year, the State Audit Office organised several professional conferences, roundtable discussions and online webinariums focusing on current economic phenomena, professionally relevant processes, up-to-date research results and new experiences. The Court also introduced a new advisory instrument last year. In the pocketbooks for managers, all the relevant information supporting the preparedness of the leaders of the audited organisations and the better functioning of the organisations from a public financial point of view has been summarised. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Although the pandemic has rewritten the usual working conditions of the State Audit Office, as have so many organisations in Hungary, it has also strengthened our organization. Over the past ten years, the State Audit Office has been able, in particular, to provide methodologically and technologically significant milestones for its audits, which have served to increase efficiency. As a result, we have achieved an increased audit coverage that has never been seen before in 2021, such as: while my colleagues have checked 1534 organisations in 2020, last year we have closed the controls of over 10 500 public-money organisations, and this year we are expected to move to a similar order of magnitude, based on the performance of the previous five months. The methodological changes made it possible for the State Audit Office to publish reports involving several audited organisations according to the same programme and the same criteria, so, despite the decline in the number of reports, the number of audited organisations has increased nearly 20 times over the last ten years, i.e. in 2010, a total of 10 554 organisations were published last year. This quantitative leap is of the utmost importance, as increasing control coverage is also instrumental in improving and transparency in public finance management, according to our experience. For the first time, the SAO assessed the integrity of all Hungarian governments and their offices at the same time, which is more than 4500 organisations, the development of a basic regulatory and control environment that determines the operation, i.e. the state of the management system of the responsible managers. With last year's audits, eight groups of organisations became fully covered, including: district centers, social institutions, law enforcement, national security, museums, disaster protection bodies, child protection institutions, performing arts. It is also a significant shift that the SAO opened and extended to the current period of checks while exploring the mistakes of the past. Digitalisation tools and data analysis have provided an opportunity to further increase the utilisation of our activities and to make the findings of the SAO more relevant on the basis of the conclusions and evaluations drawn at the present time. At this point, too, it is important to emphasise that the aim of the Court's work is not to find faults, but to improve public finances and support the maintenance of results. Another milestone in our work is that we have already provided advice to organisations committed to improving the public financial situation during the audit. In supporting, so-called awareness-raising letters, we have signalled to the heads of the audited organisations the irregularities identified, shortcomings, so that they can act as soon as possible to eliminate them, thereby ensuring the proper functioning and management of the organisation they run. The aftereffects of this activity are constantly felt, as feedback is coming back to order, in which the leaders concerned report on the measures taken, often accompanied by thanks. The audited interactivity related to the signals, their evaluation by the Court of Auditors and the methodological and technological changes have also brought renewal of our reports. We realized that it was crucial to focus on citizens and understanding. We are therefore trying to convey our messages briefly and as graphicly as possible, thus supporting their more effective delivery. Accordingly, we have renewed the Court's reports, which highlight the results of the audits in two pages, with a meaningful evaluation and infographic support for visualisation. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, A man who knows virtue is not equal to a man who loves virtue. I am convinced that the Chinese philosopher Confucius, who lived two and a half thousand years ago, is still true today. Committed mayors, notaries, institutional leaders, responsible leaders are needed to establish and operate the integrity control system in their organisations and to make them understand their importance. [[12.30]] The Court has been working for more than a decade to support local government leaders and bodies in building controls. The services provided by municipalities and their associations concern a wide range of local residents, such as nursery, kindergarten, children's meals, the care of patients and the elderly, public education institutions, libraries or even outpatient care, as they satisfy basic and essential social needs. Although professional performance is diverse, the same standards apply to different institutions in terms of the establishment of controls and the regulation of financial asset management. For this reason, the Court has identified the basic regulations and other documents which play a key role in creating transparency and protecting against corruption. For the first time last year, the State Audit Office carried out monitoring-type audits on integrity conformity with almost four thousand institutions belonging to the municipal sub-scheme. In relation to the published reports, the SAO also addressed the leaders of the governing bodies, the presidents and mayors of municipal associations, in particular in cases where the necessary measures were not taken by the heads of institutions as a result of raising awareness, so the risks persisted. At this point, we have also given the heads of the institutions the opportunity to take further steps and take measures to improve the public financial situation in the future. I think it is important to stress that, to date, some 1,500 responses have been received from the responsible leaders concerned, so we can say that the responsible managers taking action to strengthen and build basic conditions for integrity have contributed to the orderly and transparent functioning of municipal institutions. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of the legislative elections in 2022, the Court of Auditors saw the time to carry out a full screening of parties not exceeding one percent of the voters' votes but registered. There was also an international recommendation in this respect. This was the total control of 173 parties. As a result of the inspection, a purification process was initiated. Several parties have taken action to establish and justify the conditions for legal and transparent management, and several parties have informed us of its termination. A further outcome of the audit was that only a party whose transparency had a prior risk was set up in the legislative elections in 2022. However, as a result of the measures taken, and as a result of their assessment, the risk was significantly reduced here, too, by this party. The experience of our audit therefore shows that, although significant risks have been maintained for a number of parties in the area of accountability and the legality of operations, they are not eligible for fiscal support as a party without a national list setting, so the risks of misuse of public funds in the area of parties have been substantially reduced. Dear Parliament, The State Audit Office also verified the integrity of 209 public bodies, assessing the basic conditions for the proper, transparent and accountable use of resources on the basis of the most relevant documents. In doing so, the Court of Auditors has contributed to ensuring that public bodies manage public funds and membership fees in a transparent and accountable manner and that the public and the members providing funds are adequately informed about the functioning of public bodies. The Heads of Public Bodies were able to correct the shortcomings already during the audit, since the State Audit Office had already addressed the heads of the public bodies concerned during the evaluation in order to promote positive changes as soon as possible. The measures taken following awareness-raising have improved their public finances and their public remit as a result of the first audit by the Court of Auditors after 30 years. Last year, the Court also assessed the integrity of 127 other central budgetary bodies using a new audit approach. Based on the results of the audit and in the context of our advisory activities, the Court presented 587 awareness-raising letters to the heads of the audited organisations. As a result of the SAO's advisory activities, the majority of budgetary bodies have improved the development of a control environment to support legitimate, transparent operation of public funds and public assets and the enforcement of the requirements of effectiveness. The Court also assessed the integrity of the majority state-owned companies in the previous year for a total of 356 companies. The audit has also helped to improve the application of legislation to improve the quality of the conscious regulatory environment of integrity. The Fundamental Law of Hungary defines the public interest as the objective of managing and protecting national assets, meeting common needs, safeguarding natural resources and taking into account the needs of future generations. The basic aim of national wealth management is therefore to carry out public tasks, in which transparent and accountable management of public assets and the protection of national assets are essential social requirements. The Court also paid particular attention last year to the monitoring of the management of national assets and to the detection of risks and financial vulnerability to other subsystems. The Court of Auditors has carried out annual audits of organisations exercising ownership rights over public assets to support the responsible management of public assets, on the basis of statutory requirements. In the last year, the SAO also carried out and continued the audit of seven higher education institutions that had undergone a maintenance change. On the basis of the findings of the checks, it can be concluded that it was justified to strengthen the framework for the exercise of ownership rights in order to protect the national assets. In a letter, the Court drew the attention of the Presidents of the Curatorios which maintain the universities concerned to the future exploitation of the findings of the audit, to the accurate recording and preservation of the available assets. It is important to stress that the new foundations entrusted with the maintenance of universities are also obliged to manage the assets entrusted to them according to the principles of transparency and the purity of public life. In support of this, the Court of Auditors has also carried out a self-test to ensure that, after the maintenance change, the maintenance staff treat the assets entrusted to them responsibly and as a careful farmer. Last year, the Court continued to monitor the management of the assets of the central budget bodies and also carried out four major investments; this year we will continue to do so in a larger number. Significant investments typically represent hundreds of millions of forints, sometimes billions of forints. Checking also serves to meet the requirements of legality, accountability, transparency, expediency and effectiveness in the investment process. In addition, we have carried out an audit of the national-owned companies, in which we assessed the risk of a solvency risk situation. It's a new type of check. With our control, we have drawn attention to situations that threaten solvency in the majority of national owned companies in order to prevent loss of assets. As a result of our assessment, the public financial situation has improved significantly with the 356 majority state-owned companies which, as a result of their social and economic weight and size, play a prominent role in the lives of people's everyday lives. Based on the results of the Court's advisory activities, the establishment of the basic conditions and the essential content of the integrity-conscious regulatory environment improved in the majority of the companies concerned last year. As a result of the Court's audit and awareness-raising, the integrity situation of state-owned companies has shown progress with the audited companies. The Court of Auditors will continue its audit in 2022, focusing mainly on the assessment and development of the integrity situation of companies owned by majority self-governments. Dear Parliament, In 2021, the Court also assessed the year 2018-19, representing the financial balance of the municipalities, 523 municipalities were involved in this audit. The main point of the finding is that in 2018-19 the financial balance of the municipalities was ensured, the balance of financial management was maintained, and the systemic risk of indebtedness was thus not maintained in the local government sector in 2018-19. [[12.40]] I would now like to speak briefly about three functional areas. One is the accounting system. The key statutory task of the State Audit Office is to assess compliance with the rules on the accounting system of public finances. In 2021, the audit carried out mainly on the policies to be drawn up under accounting policy, the existence of an account order and its statutory content, the procurement procedures and the existence of records of persons entitled to commit and demonstrate compliance, as well as of their signature models. Checks have been justified in this area, and there are still many gaps. On the other hand, the Court of Auditors, drawing on the experience of recent years, played an important role last year in the development, dissemination and development of performance culture, performance-based quality management and use of public funds, as well as in the development of its framework and conditionality. As regards the subject, the Court's impulses aim is to create a new approach, a performance focus and a documented approach to the use of public money and public wealth. This is what basically forms the basis for performance control. In addition to knowledge-enhancing, performance audits will also help to ensure that the principle of effectiveness is respected, and together with an assurance and an overall assessment, we can also sum up the experience of society, thereby strengthening the social relevance and the ability to make checks more accessible. In 2021, the Court assessed the development of the basic conditions for organisational performance measurement in a total of 3938 audited organisations. In addition, in 15 audited organisations, the management performance, the organisational performance of 1 audited organisation, the operation of the vaccination system in 2 and the activity related to energy labelling in 21 and the effectiveness of waste management in 3 organisations were assessed. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Covid epidemic was a special task for us to carry out analyses as we go along. Accordingly, and taking into account international experience, we have carried out so-called rapid evaluations. A total of 45 analyses were carried out by the Court of Auditors, which provided more than ten analyses to the Budgetary Council, as well as an examination and analysis of the specific circumstances of the various sectors. Here, my colleagues carried out the evaluations not by the Court of Auditors' method of obtaining and checking data, but in the genre of the analysis. I have authorized this disclosure, but for you, the content of the reports, as indicated, was directly responsible for the creators. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Court aims to take the lead as an exemplary, moderate body for public sector institutions. To this end, it seeks to continuously improve its own organisational effectiveness, efficiency and effectiveness, also adapting to modern challenges such as accelerated digitalisation. In order to ensure up-to-date organisational management based on relevant decisions supported by reliable information, it is necessary to manage both the internal processes of the organisation and the effects of external factors affecting its management, activity and management. It is important that we do our job in a way that guarantees the Court of Auditors' smooth functioning. Allow me also to draw attention to a section that has been presented in some pages as good practice in the integrity culture of the SAO. Honourable Parliament! As a final thought, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament for using our audit findings, experiences, analyses and information in their work, in many cases by means of a separate letter, and for discussing our recommendations to the legislative proposals, thereby contributing to the utilisation and effectiveness of the Parliament's financial and economic audit body, the Court of Auditors' work. In conclusion of my expo, I would like to express my appreciation to the staff of the Court of Auditors, my colleagues, for their professionally high quality, value-creating work. And allow me to welcome the two Vice-Presidents in the box in particular at the end of this thought, as we have participated in this work together with Vice-President Magdolna Holman and Vice-President Monika Karas in the last year. Thank you very much for your attention. I will be available for your questions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-14-61	Thank you very much for Mr President's report. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, rapporteur of the Economic Committee, author of the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-14-62	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting held on 7 June, the Parliament's Economic Committee heard information from Holman Magdolna, Vice-President of the State Audit Office, and discussed the V/24 on the Court of Auditors' professional activities and the operation of the institution in 2020-21. His paper number. The Committee shall be responsible for the adoption of the report on the operation of the Office of State Audit Office for National Assembly (H/201. He submitted a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament, which was adopted by 11 votes in favour and 4 votes against. It was comforting to take control of the State Audit Office's financial report for 2021, in which it informed the Parliament that the Court of Auditors had fully fulfilled its statutory tasks. I also think it is important to highlight this because the last two years have been filled with unprecedented challenges for all of us. Let us consider the situation caused by the pandemic, which fundamentally revised the usual, well-established working conditions of the Court of Auditors. Not only did the Court have to adapt and not only was it able to adapt to the changed environment, but it also managed to make technological and methodological changes despite the pandemic. In this context, it has significantly increased control coverage, broadened control activities and has also been able to increase its role as a supporter. The report showed that the Court of Auditors had fulfilled its statutory function, as it had done in the previous year, during the past year, to monitor the implementation of the central budget, the management of public finances, the use of resources from public finances and the management of national assets. In addition, his advisory role was strengthened by the Parliament last year. I think it is important to highlight not only the importance of the work carried out by the State Audit Office, but also the extent to which it can be achieved. The SAO has initiated a significant process of cleansing between parties, for example, thanks to the measures taken through audits. As a result of the measures taken, the financial situation of public bodies and the provision of public tasks improved, the majority of the budgetary bodies improved the environment controlling legitimate, transparent operation with public funds and public assets. The effective work carried out by the SAO has clearly contributed to the successful completion of the controlled investments. In the case of companies, the SAO also played a major role in the development of the regulatory environment. I think that we can report a significant shift in the Court's activities last year, with the parliamentary mandate which, on the one hand, strengthened the SAO's knowledge-sharing and advisory activities and, on the other hand, strengthens the effectiveness of public service provision. It is also important to emphasise the SAO's activities to monitor civil society organisations. Also in compliance with its legal obligation, the SAO controls associations and foundations in accordance with the legality criteria, bearing in mind the objective of ensuring that civil society organisations are able to meet the conditions laid down by law at the highest possible level. A number of self-checks have been carried out and have been developed by the Court of Auditors. They were also available with training for the leaders of the organisations, while, thanks to civil society organisations, they have the opportunity to do their job at the highest level. [[12.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, Reading the information provided by the State Audit Office for the year 2021 and listening to the President's exposé, I think it is clear that the aim of the State Audit Office of Hungary is to inform the public and legislation on issues of public wealth in a transparent, professional, understandable and credible manner. Perhaps last year's greatest result was that with so many analyses, tests, training and knowledge sharing, they were able to contribute to the regular, efficient and more economical and efficient operation of the audited. I would like to thank this House, on behalf of all of us, for the adoption of the information provided by the State Audit Office. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-14-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-06-14-64	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur for the Economic Committee, Kristóf Szatmáry, also made it clear from his speech that our committee, the Economic Committee, had discussed the report on the one hand, and that the State Audit Office, as a financial and economic audit body of the Parliament, had carried out its planned tasks in the last year, as well as monitoring the implementation of the central budget, the management of public finances, the use of resources from public finances and the management of national assets. I would also like to thank President László Domokos for his detailed report on the activities and operations of the State Audit Office in 2021, the Vice-President, for adding to the written presentation at the committee meeting and, of course, the whole annual work. I find it particularly remarkable that the National Assembly's main financial and economic audit body was able to perform its task, its constitutional task and even in a challenging, difficult year last year, and I would particularly like to point out that, thanks to technological and methodological developments, the State Audit Office has achieved an unprecedented audit coverage in 2021. This is also clearly demonstrated by the figures, since, while the organisation controlled 1534 organisations in 2020, the Court of Auditors already carried out audits of around 10 500 organisations from over 26 thousand public funds organisations last year. The report shows that the SAO carried out a monitoring-type audit of the integrity adequacy of nearly four thousand institutions belonging to the municipal sub-scheme, and, as the President pointed out in his exposé, the SAO also carried out a full screening of parties below 1 percent of the votes, which meant the control of some 173 parties, by the way. The State Audit Office also verified the integrity of 209 public bodies, 127 budgetary bodies and some 356 economic companies. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The State Audit Office has performed its statutory tasks and has placed great emphasis on knowledge-sharing and advisory activities, even in the context of the fundamentally changed circumstances of the Crown Virus pandemic. This was also confirmed by the Parliament in its decision adopted on 15 June 2021, in which it stated that, in order to facilitate the functioning of the well-managed state, it supports the strengthening, functioning of its advisory role in addition to the functions of the State Audit Office of Auditors for operational, control and analysis, in order to improve the legality of the public financial situation, the effectiveness of the public service mission and the strengthening of public confidence. It is also important to point out that progress has been made in the last ten years in terms of both methodologically and technologically significant effectiveness in the audit of the State Audit Office. It can be concluded that the State Audit Office of the State has typically carried out the most specific audits by 2011, which has provided a way of assessing a number of but limited number of audits. It should be pointed out that, thanks to the digitalisation changes in recent years, the State Audit Office has launched and implemented technological and process-oriented developments that enabled it to carry out the evaluation of thousands of organisations in the framework of its audits at the same time. With the help of the new control focus areas, more institutions can be monitored and the control coverage of public and public assets can also be increased. It is important to note that, in addition to audits, the State Audit Office assists organisations in its advisory activities to take action already in the audit process to address and correct the deficiencies identified, thus addressing the risks relevant to society, public money and public wealth in a timely manner. It can be seen that the State Audit Office, with its new audit approaches, can significantly increase control efficiency, bearing in mind the focus of the areas and themes, and a mutually reinforcing approach. The constantly increasing number of audit sites in recent years implies, of course, that not only the volume of public money controlled and public wealth coverage is increasing, but also the confidence of society in public money, towards organisations using public wealth, as it is also known to citizens that organisations are subject to continuous monitoring and evaluation. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, the State Audit Office also performed its audit tasks effectively in 2021, effectively supported the functioning of the Parliament and the committees, and fully fulfilled its information tasks. The report before you shows precisely and in sufficient detail the SAO's activity last year, which is clearly considered to be effective, and the Fidesz fraction therefore supports its adoption. I ask with respect that, after the general debate, my fellow Members also do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-14-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, When we are discussing the annual accounts of an authority or an office, we always do the right thing not only by looking at the previous year, but also by expressing an opinion not only on the things specifically described in the report, but also on the whole institution, its role and its tasks. This is how I think it is right for the SAO, so in my speech I will naturally address certain points of the specific report, but let me always give examples of the operation of the SAO in general. I think that almost everyone last year may have said that everyone, I say now, almost everyone in this room agrees that the use of public funds in a normal country must be controlled, its regularity must be respected, I think that this is a fundamental condition in a normal country, so that there is an organ that does this, which controls this, is in the common interest of all of us, and I naturally think that this is necessary. The problem is that the SAO has not played this role in Hungary in the last 12 years, the SAO, please, acts as a club of the Fidesz and as a party state auditor, so we can call it, as Fidesz is led by a party soldier and carries out investigations in line with Fidesz's efforts in power, and the result is even more the same as Fidesz's interests. The NER has invaded this authority and office, invaded everything else in this country, all independent institutions, and, of course, uses these previously independent institutions to revolve their political opponents. There are quite a few examples to prove this, so let's move forward in a row, I say. [[13.00]] Let's start with the most recent, perhaps, by destroying civil society organisations, as this is now the actual activity of the SAO. Just to recite the story of what happened here: Fidesz doesn't like the fact that there are civil society organisations in this country that do things that don't fit into their political credo, they're not the ministers of their politics, and so they figured out how to make a law in Parliament, so that NGOs financed from abroad would be retorted in all kinds of ways. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The opposition, including the Democratic Coalition, said at the time, we protested that this was incompatible with EU rules and spirit, which had no impact, and Parliament accepted it. What happened? What we have predicted is that the EU has launched infringement proceedings against Hungary, while the European Court of Justice has also stated that the law that stigmatize civilians and civil society organisations on a Russian sample goes against EU law. We thought that, at least once, Fidesz would back down on this, but that was not what happened, but last summer they managed to modify this by pushing the task of controlling civil society organisations capable of influencing so-called public life to the SAO in another law. So what's the problem with that? On the one hand, they created a law in which it is not defined, by the way, what the hell is a civil society organisation capable of influencing public life, which is a great rubber rule, that non-governmental organisations that do not like Fidesz, and, on the other hand, the SAO, so the body supervising the spending of public funds, has been assigned a control function against organisations that do not use public money, they do not receive any public money. We were here last year, I think, this summer, protesting that we shouldn't make this law. Of course, Fidesz pushed it through Parliament. What was the result? Now, after the elections, hundreds of civil society organisations, some estimated to have received a letter from the SAO to start monitoring. In other words, what is happening is what we talked about: for the political purposes of Fidesz, he now uses the SAO to engage civil society organisations. Comrade Rákosi would lick all ten fingers of this method, since even he wouldn't have invented it, or it was very difficult to surpass. Then you mention it in the report, and you said now, President Domokos, that the SAO has a task of helping to improve public funds, I think, in the report, rather than making mistakes. I can tell you a lot of stories from DK about the relationship between the SAO and the Democratic Coalition. Let me remind you of two, and the President knows this, because there is a great deal of literature about the changes that have taken place between the Democratic Coalition and the State Audit Office. When DK's head office burned down and the financial records were destroyed, the very first e-mail that day was about us going to the SAO to tell them to come out, look at it, burn the documents, don't touch it, don't go into the area, come out first and check what happened. Of course, we didn't even get an answer. But the real peak was when we wanted to restore the destroyed data file by asking the SAO to return the documents, computer data files that were requested from us in the previous four different checks, we gave here thousands of scanned documents and a lot of other materials, give us back our own materials that we willingly gave to the SAO during previous audits. The SAO refused to do so. He refused so much that we had to go to trial, and the result of the lawsuit was that, in the first and second degree, the court was right about everything. Then the other player in Fidesz power, the Curia, entered the story, which destroyed or changed the judgment of the first and second degree, and said that everything good and beautiful is what happened, in fact we do not need to return these documents to the SAO. In this way, the SAO has helped the parties, in this case DK, and in order to be able to operate properly. But then I will respond to today's news, because the news is that opposition party foundations are also severely condemned by the State Audit Office. This, please, is such a serious condemnation that the word "supplied" is included in the communication. For example, the State Court of Auditors, DK's party foundation, has missed the fact that there is no indication of the benefits of senior officials. We wrote to the SAO willingly that because they do not exist, senior officials do not receive benefits. In response, Mr President, you wrote that they are not interested in this, the zero forint is also a benefit, so next time we will be able to make a statement about it, and I was equally condemned, as if any real abuse had been found. I go further: it should be the role of the State Audit Office of Hungary that if it detects irregularities in the use of state assets, state aid, there is suspicion of corruption, then it will act, press charges and take action. So there is a function of the State Court of Auditors to fight corruption according to the law. Now, compared to this, the President, President László Domokos, said the following in connection with corruption a few weeks ago, and I quote you, Mr President: the mention of corruption is one of the political and economic means of exerting pressure and gaining influence, as if some would like to use abuse to expand their influence on a particular area, a group, or the whole state. Am I reading this right? So it's not corruption that's your problem, Mr. President. It's a mention of corruption? Speaking of corruption is the SAO president's problem? You're not talking about how you'd fight corruption, you're talking about how some people talk about corruption here and there, should we move on? Because that's how you interpret those sentences. He also says that I will continue with the quote: it is difficult for the person concerned to clarify himself in order to attach a corrupt stamp. Well, we are very sorry to have István Tiborcz attached to this situation, and we are extremely sorry for his father-in-law that the label of corruption has been put on by the press and the opposition, obviously based on real data. But I can bring up the case of the National Bank Foundations. Nor has the State Audit Office fought to ensure that the subsequent use of the state's assets or spending, let's say, remain public. They didn't have a word when the fidesz majority here in the ninth amendment of the basic law modified it without having to be made public, they didn't have to publish these data in a public interest request. Where was the SAO then? But there is also a part of the SAO report related to specific operations. There are also a lot of technical, if you like, minor, but important criticisms about the operation. It is not true that it is okay and that your electronic system, for example, is functioning properly, where the organisations examined need to upload the various documents. There are a lot of technical and IT problems, and the quick solution to them doesn't usually go to your office, and we have a lot of experience. There is no way to clarify the questions asked, so the SAO's colleagues tell us about the audit that different organisations answer the same questions in a different way, since they interpret them differently. If we're making mistakes, it doesn't have any teeth. In the last ten years, neither DK nor DK's party foundation has ever had a single indication that when asked to respond to a report within 15 days, there has never been a single result of the fact that there is no factual basis for this or that finding. I'll give you an example: they said there was no inventory, but we did do the inventory. It doesn't matter that we indicated this, you left these flawed things unchanged in the final report, so there is actually no back and forth relationship between organisations in this sense. We find the five-day deadline unrealistic. For a larger organisation, this means a lot of material and a lot of documents, we are talking about thousands of documents and up to tens of thousands of pages, and for smaller organisations, and for the above-mentioned civil society organisations, the administrative burden that can be fulfilled, knowing the situation of Hungarian civil society organisations, cannot be expected of them within five days. There is no way to fill the gap, there is no way to do that in the SAO's system, and there is no way to go to court for your findings. We have said this many times over the last ten years that there is no remedy, and we consider this to be a big problem, one of the key points of the whole system. [[13.10]] To sum up, DK's view is that the task should be to ensure that it is properly carried out, that the control of public spending in a normal country is an important function, but the Court of Auditors, currently acting as a party-state Court of Auditors, is not in any way acting as a political club, and therefore neither the SAO's operation nor, obviously, this report will be supported by DK in any way. Thank you very much, Madam President.
u2022-06-14-67	Welcome, fellow Members. It is now time for the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Imre Vejkey, to give the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-68	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Domokos, President of SAO Vice Presidents! Dear Colleagues, First of all, I would like to thank President László Domokos for his 12 years of impartial professional work. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] The results of which are outstanding. The speech we have just heard from our fellow Member, László Sebian-Petrovski, was extremely repulsive when he was trying to throw the atmosphere of party time into that free and independent organisation. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] which has been embodied by the SAO for 12 years. He was probably trying to refer the things that existed in his time to this House, but that is not the case here, and I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Member to the fact that, if we look at the item on the agenda, it is the SAO's accounts in 2021, and not what happened yesterday, the day before yesterday. Obviously, Mr President has an appropriate response to them, but in this case, the accounts for 2021 are the subject of the agenda. It can be said that, over the last 12 years, the public finances and public tasks of public bodies have improved through measures taken in connection with SAO audits. The majority of budgetary bodies have developed a control environment to support legitimate, transparent operation of public funds and public assets. Ladies and Gentlemen, In its accounts for 2021, as well as in the previous 12 years, the State Audit Office has fully fulfilled its statutory obligations and has carried out its planned tasks: monitoring the implementation of the central budget, the management of public finances, the use of resources from public finances and the management of national assets. I also consider it important to stress the importance of the ability of the State Audit Office to assess the integrity of all Hungarian authorities and their offices at the same time and the development of their basic regulatory environment that determines their operation in 2021. In 2021, the State Audit Office carried out around 4 thousand monitoring-type audits on the integrity of the institution belonging to the municipal sub-scheme, and carried out a full screening of the parties below 1 percent of the electoral vote. This was the control of 173 parties in total, and the SAO also verified the integrity of 209 public bodies, 127 budgetary bodies and 356 economic companies. In addition to the above, the SAO has carried out audits of seven higher education institutions that have undergone maintenance changes, as well as the control of the management of the assets of central budgetary bodies, and has assessed four significant investments and the risk of a solvency risk for national-owned companies. Ladies and Gentlemen, On 15 June 2021, the National Assembly adopted a resolution confirming the knowledge-sharing and advisory activities of the SAO and, on the other hand, stating that it supports the strengthening of the SAO's advisory role in order to improve the legality of the public financial situation, the effectiveness of public tasks and the strengthening of public trust. This type of activity has become one of the focal points of the SAO's operation in 2021. As a result, the SAO supported the leaders of the audited organisations with a variety of knowledge products, carried out analyses and organised knowledge-sharing conferences and seminars. Based on the experience of his audits, he also launched an online training series for notaries, heads of municipal institutions, economic managers, public bodies and the leaders of the central subsystem. The SAO was trained in 2021 by the head of 778 organisations. Ladies and Gentlemen, The SAO worked transparently, professionally, easily and on the basis of credible, validated funds and information, and informed the public in 2021. On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the State Audit Office of Hungary in B/24 of 2021. H/201 on the adoption and acceptance of the accounts A proposal for a decision. Thank you. Please support me, and thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-14-69	Mr Dániel Z. Karpat, lead speaker for the Jobbik Group, is now coming. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-70	Madam President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. We have extraordinary debates every year, and I have to say that even if we were just discussing the limited Court of Auditors' activity, there would still be fertile polarity between us. Even in the era surrounded by the representativeship of László Nyikos, quoted many times, we talked a lot about the n-2 rule, more specifically the lack of it. We have talked a lot about who gets into the circle and who stays out of the circle during the public financial audit, but I would like to put today's speech on the subject of statements that are part of alternative activities. Yes, the fact that we hear from the SAO that the change of model of higher education institutions was justified in order to protect national wealth is a widespread source of strange feelings, while we are faced with a model where we do not have empirical experience of checking, but we can assume that we have a much harder access to the required mass of information than we have so far, according to the classic model. So much can be said about the change of model, and it can also be imagined that it will lead to efficiency gains, although I am quite restrained on this issue, but I would certainly not say that the way of control will be easier than it has been before. However, even in the context of the financial balance of the municipalities, the systemic risk of indebtedness, even in the period under consideration, did not appear to be a presumption that the SAO would say a little different about this, and the issue of the sustainability of sovereign debt reduction is similar. It's an old argument between us. I've been here since 2010, and I'm honored to be able to speak at the national church, and we've been chewing your ears a lot since then about the fact that a thousand-billion-dollar debt is just a burden on interest repayment. And we were reassured for a very long time that, uh, no problem, then the Hungarian economy will outgrow it, let's look at GDP figures, look at the public debt-to-GDP ratio, and slowly turn it down. It's just that the global economy is only like a cyclical crisis every ten years, and if we do it in every case that the debt-to-GDP ratio, which is very difficult to overcome from 80 percent to 70, is then rescinded to 80 in a year, I don't know which one of you thinks that the next crisis will not come in five or ten years. So it is quite certain that we must continue to discuss sovereign debt management. We oppositionists can suggest very different models. We can call sovereign debt management many things, but it is not sustainable at all. [[13.20]] The fact is, this is based on facts. And if someone looks at the budget draft now, they're gonna have to meet a similar debt of over a thousand billion. Think about it, my fellow Members, my dear President, what if only half of this amount could be spent every year for national strategy purposes. One and a half national rental programs a year would come out of it to give just one example. We can also see, if we look only at the examination of the expectations of VAT and the income of the budget in the paper on the evolution of budgetary policy during the Covid-19 epidemic, that we can also find agreement here; I am missing the conclusions a little bit. We are now at a time when the VAT gap of 5100 billion goes up to 7,000 billion in a short time, so 30 percent has been able to increase expectations for some reason. In this respect, conclusions should be drawn. I suppose, and I'm terrified of it, but I hope this is not the case: you don't want to raise VAT, do you? 'Cause if you don't want to raise the 27 percent VAT, [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Dissemination!]] Then you'd have to explain to me what you're looking for with a 30% increase in income. Of course, consumption has, of course, been felt by pre-election distributions in the past period, and consumption in itself is increasing, and there is nothing wrong with that; it is the anti-discrimination that I think is reprehensible. But we can't show such a consumption surplus in itself. If we have spent all the money that was distributed before April, this has been broadly realised in the market, perhaps we can agree on this, we still do not see that the expectations of VAT could be maintained at this level. I also think the same thing about inflation expectations. But where there can be more serious debates between us, these are the speeches about the political scene. So even the SAO puts civil society organisations dealing with damaged children in a big hat about civil society organisations capable of influencing public life, even if it were a harmless thing to do, where appropriate, to examine all civil society organisations according to an implemented international set of rules. So I'm asking you to take care of every subtle word and to resolve your doubts in communication as well. So let's just stand here and ask ourselves, let's say, the COFFEE, which affects public life in a demonstrative way and brutally, doesn't always do this with its own money, why is it not in this hat? There may be a professional answer to that, but it would be helpful to share it with us in the debate on today's report. Similarly, the question of how to explain, on the basis of professional protocols, what has otherwise been seen as a widespread vesture is also raised in the case of animal rescue, homeless and disadvantaged children's organisations. So here's a subjective part of how a particular organization lives to get into this circle, gets into this hat when the Civil Alliance Forum doesn't do the same thing. During the recent debate on teachers about the rather low pay of teachers, serious fires and serious flames have been brought to light, as the State Audit Office has published a report on their financial culture, where 86 percent of respondents say that they have savings of some magnitude. Let us not argue that 86 percent did so, for what would be the point of the debate between us if we did not believe what the other said. The fact is that there was no longer any mention of the extent to which, the extent to which savings were being made by those concerned, for example, a pre-saving for housing purposes, the state support of which was abolished by the current government. So someone may have entered into a good, state-supported ltp contract, but there may also be no support for this anymore. As a savings, it can be sold in a statistical line, but it may not be possible for the citizen concerned to get much further ahead. We also see that we are talking about our fellow countrymen who, if necessary, will bring home a net of 170 thousand forints. So, in their case, more than their average willingness to observe savings and to assume their kind of well-being, this is more than insulting to those affected; this is again just a speech that may not belong to the Court's core portfolio, so we assume that this was not the aim, but that the implementation was terribly wrong. I have the same opinion about the Court of Auditors' contribution to EU funds, as I, as a great believer of patriot economic policy, would welcome a state where the Hungarian national economy, out of self-esteem, will be strange for me, but by its own hair, it will pull itself out of trouble, it will grow, and it will be able, by its own volition, to ensure prosperity in the homeland, there would be no migration from here, there would not be hundreds of thousands of pressure, wages would increase in a fair manner. (In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba Replaced by László Földi.) I would very much like to experience such a vision in my life, but I can see that the subject under investigation, the subject under examination by the report, the Government of Hungary, is going in the opposite direction. So I assume that he has a deal with the German car manufacturers, which is that, yes, in the political sphere, we sometimes say bigger, stronger things than the European Union would otherwise accept, but we are essentially allowing your multi-company companies in Hungary. And what we have seen over the last decade is that these multi-company services are carried out at master level, with non-refundable state aids, a very favourable climate and the consciously weakened forint also drives water to the expense of these multinationals, and when we move towards public burdens, like yesterday with a global minimum tax plan in the Economic Committee, they will sweep down the plans in an hour to prevent a fairer burden on the multinationals than the 9 percent corporate tax rate. We see that with this policy, thousands of billions of dollars of profits are released from the country untaxed each year, and because of the maladministration in corporate tax, hundreds of billions of forints of corporate income do not show up in the country. And what we see is, when we look at your VAT revenue, how much they collect, and we look at corporate tax revenue, we see a huge gap between the two, and they should be much, much closer to each other. We see that, and I will be interested in Mr President's personal opinion on the following: you have had very large published studies and ideas that affected the demographic field; and at the committee meeting, Madam Vice-President was kind enough to respond to them, in an otherwise correct manner, and said that it is not essentially an internal matter of the Court of Auditors or an internal think tank, but that it also publishes a lot of studies, analyses and ideas that the Court of Auditors, I think, can identify with some degree. So I'm sure they're not publishing the studies of the civilians he calls the Soros organization; I'm assuming it's something that fits into his own worldview and dimension. During the preparation for the committee meeting, I also saw studies and publications in 2011, of course I met Mr President's statement and statements from colleagues that the results of Hungarian family policy were visible. And let's stop here and say that I was very, very happy when the fertility index went up to 1.57, so we saw that something moved compared to the undoubtedly tragic demographic situation in 2010, a 25 percent increase in fertility rates. But Fidesz typically makes the mistake of continuing the investigation to the borders of our country and not looking at what happened in the surrounding countries. There is a demographer's profession, which calls the process of replacing the fact that I cannot say it more beautifully because of economic policy ideas in all the former socialist countries, the birth rate has fallen, essentially in all the post-socialist countries. With us, the cursed and never scoldable effects of the Bokros package have extended this demographic disaster, and for a very long time we had a whole twenty-something fertility rate, while in the surrounding countries it has recovered and went up to 1.5 neighborhood levels, it has been replaced, so it is called. It was a country where this did not happen in time, called Hungary. And that's when the 2010 change of government came, and fortunately, this is what the profession is known as a replacement, and once again, the process in all the neighbouring countries has taken place here as well. Let's be happy for him. I've already told you today, I think whoever's up against this is a traitor, and I'm gonna hold on to that. But when the SAO finds that Hungarian family policy has a positive impact on demographic processes, let's debate about it! I am sure there is a positive impact, let us not argue, but to set this replacement alone exclusively for the government's result, while the VAT content of child-rearing articles is an EU record, while the amount of family allowance and family tax relief has been partially evaporated since 2010 due to the huge inflation, at least exaggerating. Let us not talk about the lack of a housing programme. [[13.30]] At the same time, there was a very, very interesting initiative in one of your studies. One of them was that 110,000 live births a year would be needed within a few years, and then the population decline would be stopped. Well, I'd like to point out that if we do everything right here, it's gonna be a 30-year process to stop this thing, bring it to zero. You don't see the mathematical odds of a 110,000 live birth a year in the business. I don't know how or on what grounds anyone at the State Audit Office saw that. Nice aim, let's talk about it, but unfortunately, it's impossible in Hungary, and I wish I was wrong. At the same time, we must say that the study entitled "Child benefit in the pension system" and the package of ideas can be very, very much supported by me. I would be very pleased if the SAO were to embrace an idea that had been published ten years ago, and to think about how to do it through the pension system, that if someone has many children, they will thrive in the homeland, they will become taxpayers here; but we, Jobbikians, too, have been talking about an institution called parental support allowance for almost ten years, the essence of which is that a child working on the labour market, if he has already paid his taxes, may decide on one side of this to transfer it to his parents and replace the pensions of parents, or his surviving parents, if we talk about a parent, but he can certainly support his parents with a simple tax benefit formula. Here, this idea is essentially aimed at getting a fixed amount of the child's contributions already working into a separate child-support account, and recognising the mother's invested efforts as a flat rate for a fixed monthly amount. Here, after a child, it is calculated that the calculations of ten years ago would amount to up to HUF 12,000 in benefits. That's a very good suggestion. I would expect the SAO to have an opinion on this once you have embraced it, tell you how you could carry it through the current system, how you might think it would be possible for Parliament to take it through, and I support you that, if we are talking about demographic goals, this excellent idea should be taken up, re-enact and continue a productive debate about it. Overall, I am not going to tell you a secret by not being able to accept this report, but it is very, very important to have fruitful discussions with each other along some of these components. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-06-14-71	The lead speaker of the Momentum Group is Mr Endre Tóth. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-06-14-72	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, If there were an award for the worst employer of the year, the State Audit Office would have had an absolute chance of doing so in recent years, while László Domokos would be able to apply confidently for the worst employer of the year. After all, there are not many cynical and insensitive employers who, instead of sending Christmas greetings, send threatening letters to 100 of their employees to force their departure. But it is also rare to hear that an employer's own experienced and good work-culture staff group of 60 people is offered in public without prior communication between the walls of this house to reduce the shortage in the labour market. Mr. President, you seem to think you're a medieval vassal, and you consider your employees to be better off with your work force without consulting them. The President's words also point to a fief's attitude:. Hopefully soon, only people I hired will work for the SAO. These words, which show a sick desire for personal control, do not fit into the mouth of the head of an independent institution. Yet László Domokos said that according to the SAO staff. The State Court of Auditors should act as a counterweight to government power, guarantee responsible management of public funds, reduce corruption; this should be strictly independent of any other organisation as required by law. And we know for a fact that the State Audit Office is independent of many organisations, but there are two exceptions. Perhaps my fellow Members already know that these two are Fidesz and KDNP. No person who has been a member of the Government in the previous four years or who has served as an elected leader in the national organisation of any party shall be designated as the President of the State Audit Office. That's what it says in the relevant law. Well, László Domokos joined the Fidesz in 1991, he was a Member of the Fidesz Parliament, Deputy Group leader, member of the election, and still serves the party's interests faithfully. Everything but an independent man. That's what the comrade's kiss in the room just proved. [[Deterioration in the benches of Momentum.]] Obviously, with a party soldier leader, it's not surprising that the State Audit Office cannot play the role of power counterweight, but let's be honest: it doesn't even try. His audit practice is accompanied by constant iron applause from the Fidesz Party Centre, and listening to his communication, one suspects that their communications are being edited by the unemployed text guards of Pesti TV. The SAO will then reveal irregularities in a controlled organization that could benefit the ruling party. In addition, while opposition parties are being punished almost all the time for the reasons they have been given, Fidesz and KDNP find everything in order. If you're watching the SAO's work, you might feel a little in Russia. And if the SAO finds serious transparency deficiencies in a government-party municipality, as it did in the area of real estate management in the downtown area, then there will be a small amount of money left, but the SAO does not control the improvement of the problems. Dr. Flóra Szigeti, a representative of the Momentum downtown, has been raised again and again, and the district real estate register remains opaque. After that, no one was surprised that the Fidesz management of the municipality had so much real estate problems that it was embarrassing even for the Fidesz head of the government office, Sára Botond. But how can the State Audit Office expect us to comply with the law? On what moral grounds do you claim that other organisations operate properly and ethically when they themselves fail to comply with the laws of the country and abuse the right of their vulnerable employees? We now know from several final judgments that the SAO has classified its employees in a way that violates the law in a lower payment category, reducing their wages by HUF 70-220 thousand per month. Obviously to get them to leave. Experienced former senior employees made as much as a fresh employee out of an internship program. This is nothing more than workplace terror and internal cleansing between workers. The goal is also clear: they wanted to banish those who came to the organization before 2010 and were able to judge it on a professional basis, László Domokos worked well. The Fidesz party soldier president wanted to destroy the last rooks of professional independence within the organization. Unfortunately, I'm reporting that you've succeeded. As a result of fluctuations of more than 10 percent per year and internal cleansing, there is hardly any experienced professional and experienced auditor at the State Audit Office. The State Audit Office, which has been cleared of all independence and professional autonomy, has now remained the public financial shadow organisation and communication staff of the Fidesz-KDNP. Under these circumstances, it is not possible for a party representing democratic values to accept the report. Therefore, Momentum does not support this report either. Instead, we recommend to President Domokos that the SAO's office use the words used in internal cleansings, use the possibility to protect it from burnout and resign from its presidency. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-06-14-73	The lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Ms Zita Gurmai, is next. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-14-74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, As regards the assessment of the State Audit Office's accounts, not much has changed compared to last year. This year, too, we managed to create a spectacular, colorful, smelly information instead of a document presenting the real conditions. Admissions could have an excellent brochure for university selection, but the real role of the State Audit Office is not really revealed, but the fact that the SAO's current management is waiting for new figures and diagrams to come up with. In spite of numerous references to independence and professional assistance in the report, in recent years the organisation has acted more as a consistent enforcer of political instructions. The management and campaigning of the governing parties are somehow always in the best order, unlike the opposition, where serious billions are imposed as fines, if that is the political direction. Let us not forget that the SAO usually finds financial deficiencies with those actors against which the Government of Viktor Orbán is conducting a campaign. This is the case in the area of elections in opposition parties, in the former Hungarian Academy of Sciences or in the University of Theatre and Film Arts. Speaking of P.E.S. In spite of the change in the university model, there was too much to know about the outcome, it is only mentioned that the State Audit Office sent a letter to the presidents of the curatoriums that maintained the universities concerned in order to exploit the findings of the audit in the future and to take an accurate account of the assets available. [[13.40]] What this means, in terms of practical effects, is unfortunately unknown. Among other things, the report is very modest in the specifics, especially in general. It is only a few times when a meaningful resolution can be read between the lines. This is just the occasion when the SAO's analysis makes the government's economic policy a diplomatic, but at least a criticism, officially bearing a negative stamp on the size of the budget deficit, our competitiveness or even the sustainability of our development. As we can see, László Domokos, President of the SAO, makes criticisms very, very rarely and modestly. For example, regarding the budget for 2023 before the House, the Ministry of Finance did not agree with its hurrah-optimist numbers. But let us not forget that last summer you were the one who pointed out that the government made the right decision when it did not ask for a significant part of the EU's recovery funds, and only the HUF 2500 billion of non-refundable funding is needed because it does not want to be indebted. However, we are now at a point where I think that the government would do anything but get a source from the European Union; although, let's face it, it will be difficult when corruption risks do nothing. In summary, it can be concluded that, as last year's situation has been, the report is infinitely general again this year, contains specifics in as few cases as possible, and that the examination of specific cases cannot be fully achieved. At the end of the report, for example, instead of a list of reports, it would be good to read some of them, because they did not even include a link in this form, which would make them otherwise openable. For example, the MSZP has specifically dealt with the purchase of the Mátra power plant, which has rarely caused great damage to state assets, but the State Audit Office does not mention it in its report, nor in previous years, unfortunately. But let's look at another interesting detail of last year's activity. According to the report, the State Audit Office of Hungary had a greater impact on the operation and management of the municipalities in 2021, i.e. in the years following the local elections in 2019 that led to the breakthrough, as it carried out the verification of the integrity of the municipal sub-scheme, of all Hungarian municipalities and offices, and of 319 municipalities and 1284 municipal offices. So during the Covid epidemic, he deals with the screening of nearly 3,200 municipalities when the government was trying to make the financial situation of the municipalities as impossible as possible. However, perhaps the settlements would not have needed complete due diligence, but help; not the SAO, but financial assistance from the government. The authorities placed in an increasingly impossible position would be checked, which even received rising energy prices from the government around their necks. We should help our settlements. We hope that Fidesz will radically change its policy so that in a year's time it will make sense to read in the report how the SAO controlled the management of the financially supported municipalities. The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction cannot support the SAO's 2021 report. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-14-75	I now give the floor to Mr István Szabadi, who is the lead speaker of the Group of our country. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-14-76	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, Dear Mr László Domokos, Vice Presidents! Dear colleagues of the SAO, We have studied the report submitted to Parliament on the professional activities, operation and management of the State Audit Office in 2021, which, on the basis of its content, seems more like a report on the period of the Presidency of the President in the last 12 years, given that the mandate of the President expires on 5 July this year. At first glance, the report gives the appearance of a thorough professional material rich in really visual experiences, which is mainly due to the really well-educated infographics of the report. At this point, I would like to note that you can expect such a high level and quality visualization compilation, because according to the current contract list published on your website, you spend 34 million forints a month on the rental of visual products, software, networking, support, and in the last two years you have acquired licenses and IT tools for 300 million forints, which of course produces such an eye-catching visual experience. However, if we look at the textual part of the 130 - page document, it is difficult to understand the substance. We do not see at all the ambition of the State Audit Office to express the results of the audits clearly, consistently and clearly at all times. At first glance, the report presents the appearance of a thorough professional material, but one of the basic tasks of the State Audit Office, the assessment of areas at risk of corruption and the operation of the integrity project are less visible. To this end, the legal authority is set out in Article 39 of the Fundamental Law, according to which all public bodies are obliged to account for their public finances. Public funds and national wealth must be managed in accordance with the principles of transparency and the purity of public life. The integrity management system was introduced by the government with the Government Decree of 50/2013 in February 2013, which serves to prevent corruption on a theoretical basis, and here is the point: theoretically. And why do I say that? Because, according to the government portal, the essence of integrity theory is that the integrity of the individual and the organization are closely interlinked; if the individual does not identify with the organization's values and expectations, then the effectiveness of the organization's operation may also be impaired. In practice, all that has happened to prevent corruption is that integrity consultants have been appointed to public administrations, and integrity advisory training has been launched at the National University of Public Service since February 2013. On the basis of our information, however, the integrity consultant of public administrations is appointed a person who is unable to contribute to the material activity of the body, but, let's say, he is able to talk about integrity theory in various forums. Therefore, integrity advisors cannot effectively prevent corruption, as the recent EU tender fraud in the Ministry of Finance shows. But let's see what you do to prevent and stop corruption. Mr President, as one of the biggest achievements of his Presidency, he stressed that, despite a decrease in the number of reports over the last 12 years, the number of audited organisations has increased nearly 20 times, and the State Audit Office of Hungary closed the audit of 10 544 organisations in 2021. All this is due to the very expensive technology I have mentioned in recent years and its digital developments that have allowed even more controls to run at the same time, which they claim did not go at the expense of quality and work. But is that really true? According to the report, the new methodology is to examine thousands of controlled persons on the basis of the same programme and the same criteria on a digital basis, which they are able to implement in our reading if the control criteria are simplified to the extent that a municipality, a central budgetary body, a state-owned company, a private company or civil society receiving budgetary support can be controlled under the same conditions. [[13.50]] But what are these control aspects? On the basis of the State Audit Office's report, it examines the statutes, organisational and operational rules, accounting rules, accounting policies and regulations to be drawn up in this framework, such as inventory and inventory, financial management, evaluation and cost accounting regulations; the management organisation's rules of procedure; the existence and proper signature of the rules on the use and use of motor vehicles; the existence and proper signature of the annual accounts or budget accounts; the up-to-date management of accounting and commitment contract records, the preparation of inventory records as a national asset; the signing or countersigning of contracts selected by risk analysis; and the fact that the account holder has confirmed the performance or authorised payment. I have also listed these, but we have also heard them in the previous comments, so the main point of the SAO audit is that the audited body has the listed regulations, keeps the records, complies with the documentary order. This is where they see the principle of balanced, transparent and sustainable fiscal management. They're no longer focused on exposing corruption. So it's a certain one-lined thinking, because they're checking that it's really signed, if it's not signed, they're able to throw it back, they're not giving me a chance to make up for it, but I'll go over it. Without the need for completeness: the State Audit Office does not control the decisions of the management body or the number one head of the audited body. And this is where the point is that there is no longer a simple accounting check, but, let's say, here you can turn to corruption in depth, and now I would like to list what else you might want to check there or think about, so to speak, to change the way you think a little bit. For example, managers have awarded themselves greater amounts of personal benefits; they have concluded contracts with the company of their interest; they have outsourced an activity which should have been carried out by an organizational unit of that body; the worker leaving with a high amount of severance has been reemployed through the companies of their interests; the contract concluded involves real performance behind the accounts; the contract price is not overpriced; the office vehicles are used for when and for what purpose; the office trips have actually served the activities of that body; the objective pursued by budgetary support has been achieved; there has been parallel financing or over-subsidisation. If they're checking these things, obviously we can assume that they might be prying a little towards corruption, that something like this might have happened. In Mr President's defense, he already states in the President's opening remarks that the State Audit Office does not reveal occasional abuses, but does carry out its assessments on a systemic and supportive basis. Therefore, the reader should not look for specific corruption cases in the report. On the basis of the report, it should be pointed out that while they are proud that 3197 local authorities were examined with 100 percent coverage in 2021, only four of the more than eight thousand public investments were controlled. I'll repeat that again. Thus, while the municipalities were checked with 100 percent coverage, the more than 8,000 public investments there were then able to control a total of four of the public funds, the preparatory phase of the contract, i.e. that the rightholder had signed the contract. Well, it's not serious. In this case, it was not stated that the estimated value was correctly determined during the procurement procedure conducted or that the loser had not returned as one of the subcontractors of the investment. On the basis of what was said at the conference of the Hungarian Financial and Economic Auditors Association held on 10 November 2019, Mr President considers that the SAO has established an electronic reporting system for the implementation of paper-free and thus non-financial reporting. The audit findings will be made on the basis of the documents so requested. The aim is to keep as few personal contacts as possible between the inspector and the inspector. It is an extraordinary misconception, so that the controlled and the controlling person does not happen to meet each other, by chance, to communicate with each other. I am convinced that cutting this down is a completely wrong thinking, and I do not think it is right at all. The 2011 LXVI on the State Audit Office. in law, according to the SAO Act, the audited body is required to provide the data within five days of the request letter. Meanwhile, according to the audited bodies, they are unable to contact the State Audit Office, we are going to break contact with each other, the contactee, they are unable to ask questions about the request for data, although smaller civil society organisations or companies receiving budgetary support often do not know which documents should be uploaded, how to do it, or what validity and credibility criteria should be met. Therefore, the SAO may have grown into a separate service to assist the audited body during the SAO audit. For example, according to his website, Dr. Batka Brigitta may be contacted by a lawyer in such a case. So it's also nonsense that there's a controller, and there's a controlled person, and if the controlled person doesn't understand something, then you can't communicate with the controller, but you can find a lawyer, we'll communicate through it. The report emphasises that the aim of the State Audit Office is not to make mistakes or condemn them, but to steer them in the right direction. We can easily verify the effectiveness of this. We did, a little between the comments raised on publicly available SAO reports and the official responses given to them. I will mention two examples. For example, the State Audit Office, when verifying the use of its support from the central budget of social, human service institutions and service providers other than public finances, found that it did not have an accounting report in 2019. In fact, what happened was that the civil society organisation prepared and submitted the report to the court, only the representative of the organisation on the basis of which the State Audit Office stated that the report had not been drawn up. Well, with this way of thinking and approach, everything prevails, but the goal is not to make mistakes and condemn them. But I'll give you another example. During the post-control of religious communities with legal personality receiving budget support for non-faith purposes, the Hungarian Methodist Church was found not to have a set of supporting documents in its accounting order. In its comments, the organisation indicated that the system of supporting documents was not attached due to a problem of interpretation, but that this deficiency was corrected at the same time as the comment. The State Audit Office did not subsequently adopt the Code on the grounds that it was not included in the declaration of completeness and authenticity sent by the original deadline. Then I ask you once again: is the goal being to define error finding or reprimanding or redirecting in the right direction in these cases as well? It can also be seen from the examples listed above that the State Audit Office, when it comes to controlled bodies, is rather inflexible. But what about your own organization? In any case, it is significant that, while the State Audit Office details its professional activities and operations on 123 pages, its management is a single page. Guarantee rule registered in the SAO Act, which is also very good: they have to get more every year. Such a guarantee many would like for themselves... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Well, thank you very much, my time is up. Then thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country and the Momentum.]] [[14.00]]
u2022-06-14-77	Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Mihály Witzmann indicated that he wanted to take this opportunity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-14-78	Thank you very much, Madam President. As with every SAO report in recent years, I am not surprised, as opposition parties are trying to use this debate at all costs to dress the SAO's professional report and presentation of its activities in a kind of party policy robe. [[Z. Kárpat is replaced by Bernadett Bakos in the notary seat.]] Such sentences were said without specific names: the end of civil society organisations; then they tried to define the SAO as a wrestling stick of Fidesz; then, having a party soldier at the head, I wrote myself quotes like this. I would just like to draw the attention of my fellow opposition Members to the fact that the President of the State Audit Office is elected by the Hungarian Parliament. It is elected by the parliament, which, by way of democratic elections, decides every four years, in what personal composition or party political composition should it be possible to create laws, and it happens to be the parliament in which Fidesz-KDNP obtained a fourth and two-thirds majority in 2022. I understand that it is difficult for the left to accept this, but I ask that they be angry not with the SAO, not with the governing parties, and certainly not with the Hungarian electorate, because we were not the ones in the electoral campaign who said that the power belonged to the people, but with you, my dear fellow left-wing Members. I think that this is where the appropriate conclusions are drawn, why this was done. On the other hand, with regard to these sentences, that there is a party soldier at the head of the organization, I would recommend that you pay attention to the fact that the Vice President of the SAO was a former MSZP politician between 2010-2020, who also worked for several cycles as mayor of a large city in Hungary, and was sitting in MSZP colours here in the parliamentary horseshoe for several cycles. So it would be nice not to take this professional report into the direction of party political debates, which I would like to draw your attention to with great respect. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-14-79	Thank you. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Mr István Szabadi applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor, Congressman, please.
u2022-06-14-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Yeah, just because there's actually a few things I'd like to mention, for example, the guarantee. The implementation of the guarantee is also required by the employees of the State Audit Office and the State Court of Auditors because the salary of their employees is not fixed, but is adjusted to the average monthly gross earnings of the national economy officially published by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office on 1 March each year for the year preceding the reference year. However, I would like it to be said that the President's salary is 12 times the salary of this salary fund, which is HUF 5 137 200 per month from 1 March 2022, but also an accountant earns HUF 1 412 730 per month gross. The average number of people employed in 2021 is half a thousand, i.e. 489. It is not surprising that, according to their 2021 report, 85 percent of the expenditure, HUF 10.6 billion was spent on personal benefits and contributions, while the expenditure in rem was HUF 1.3 billion, and HUF 0.5 billion was spent on investments and renovations. It also states that in 2021 there was 11.9 billion in operation, 12.6 billion in 2022 and 13.3 billion in 2023. I ask the State Audit Office to deal with matters according to Article 39 of the Fundamental Law, according to the principles of transparency and the purity of public life, and to place greater emphasis on identifying specific corruption cases. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of our country and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-14-81	I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. President László Domokos, as rapporteur, has indicated that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate, so I now give the floor to President László Domokos. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-82	Madam President, Dear House, I see that the 12th report didn't surprise me, either, because when we look at the 12 years we have written about a lot of things every year, and between the years, there are significant differences in emphasis... on the various changes you've proposed, awareness raisings, what we check, how we check, we've tried to track. My colleagues didn't get a minimum of satisfaction in the work they did, even though many people here have actually told me how good it is to be an accountant, but how difficult it is to be an accountant as well. Then it was assessed by everyone in the mood that these 490 people did not have any other job but to do their professional work at the Court of Auditors. The law clearly separates this and the law is clearly disputed on a number of issues, so I am forced to refer to it, and the law is adopted by the Parliament, not by the President of the SAO. And obviously the President of the SAO would like to continue his work in the future in accordance with the law; he has done so in the past, according to the law. For example, I think that the last comment in which he said that a page was the financial report was unworthy. Sorry, the independent auditor appointed by the Speaker of Parliament has written in five pages, and here is the annex to what he has established; not what I say as a report, but as an independent professional. Then to question the fact that the President of the SAO's report is not credible, because he hasn't written any more about it... Or the other person who says why we don't summarize the contents of the reports one by one. Well, I'm sorry, it's over a hundred inspections a year. In the previous ten years, there was an average of 50 for the audit number that the SAO has carried out, and we are now issuing a report of over 100 for more than six years now, and for that reason, I believe that we should not be looking at the number of reports, but at the number of inspectors, because I am telling my colleague who spoke earlier, for many years, we have had to listen to why we do not check the municipalities now, of course, what you said incidentally, the 8,000 investments and the institutions. Last year, my colleagues finally checked 4 thousand municipal institutions, 4 thousand municipal offices and the operation of local governments, as well as hundreds of state companies, hundreds of central budgetary institutions; this is less in number, by the way, 1:20, 1:10 the number of central institutions and the number of institutions and companies of the municipalities. So it's obvious that it was a huge challenge in the last two years, when, remember, it was a pandemic. I don't even understand why they're calling the SAO to account for why he didn't go into the financial departments in the middle of the pandemic, and why he didn't start licking through the paperwork there, while everyone else was afraid of infection. There was a curfew during this period, let alone go in there. Of course, we defended both the personal and health rights of the controlled and our own colleagues. And I believe that this is a great achievement, and it is supported by a parliamentary decision, not only the SAO President has decided on his own behalf that the Court of Auditors is operating paper-free. Yes, it costs hundreds of millions of forints of investment and operating expenses, because these tools, machines... if you buy your child a phone, they don't give it away for free. If your group goes in to buy a computer network with an adequate cybersecurity background, it has different ancillary costs per month or quarterly. Nearly 490 people at the Court of Auditors really need to implement the same conditions, but even safer, as there is data protection, and perhaps they have heard about the world of cyber attacks and the world of data theft. I believe that a responsible head of a public body and a private organisation, not only in Hungary, but also outside Hungary, is responsible for protecting the data, and if it had to be converted, because there has been no question in this regard in the last two years that the Court of Auditors can do its work at all in the framework of the pandemic, and we can actually submit an effective report on this... then let the bunny know why you have not been on the ground. [[14.10]] Last time, the question was, why weren't you in the other twenty-five thousand places to check out why they only went 500 places? Allow me, fellow Members... [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: You said something!]] They were once, dear Members, but they may also be partners. Or maybe they're enemies? I'm trying to reach out to you as partners. So I thought they'd give a little more insight to the 500 people who did the job last year. Because by not being satisfied with me, I say I'm used to it, but let me quote the law. The auditors are examining the evidence, not gathering the opinions of the audited, not going out to talk, but carrying out evidence-based checks. Excuse me, Mr President, many of you have been counting on why we are not full of concrete corruption issues. I don't know how well they are in constitutional law, but the Court of Auditors is not an official audit body. Someone called us that. We are an office, an office that is auditing, not making a decision. When asked why the SAO cannot be brought to court, the answer is that because the SAO does not take a decision, so there is no place in the Hungarian judicial system, the Court of Auditors is not located within the judicial system, but the financial and economic audit body of the Parliament. Every year we get more and more tasks, more and more tasks, so how can I say that we believe that our work is satisfied by the Parliament. From the control of the foundations of the National Bank to the control of the companies. Some may not remember it, but the companies could not be checked by the Court of Auditors by 2010. The amendment of the 11th legislation allowed the municipalities to control around two thousand majority-owned companies. I could tell you further that the number of inspectors has increased by more than 10,000 over the last 12 years, and the SAO has not caught up with the technology you are now crying back to make phone calls, talk, and so forth. And then, of course, I don't even know what it's like to say that we're giving different opinions. That's just the point, you can't meet in person, you have to write a letter documented. If someone has a problem with the five days, the technical details, then that's... I've looked into it several times, because, believe me, I get plenty of letters, and I read them when they ask my colleagues to explain why these problems are, in most cases it turns out that they don't read the letters we write or read the first page, but they don't get to the end. I understand the controlled ones in a way. Imagine that nearly 26,000 of the organizations to be checked had not been checked for twenty years. They didn't meet the SAO, they didn't meet the SAO's letters. Of course it's a separate task, and we're looking for them to protect your laws, how they've been implemented. It is possible to underestimate why different regulations should be made under the Accounting Act, there could be other methods, and the SAO has also proposed and proposed this. There could be another way to establish accounting rules in public finances, for example, but that would reduce the degree of freedom of individual organisations to their specific needs. There could be four or six types of accounting, and you have to choose which one is his, like at the IRS, and you have to use that software, you don't have to write policies. But this is not what the National Assembly of Hungary has chosen in thirty or a few years, and this is not the accounting law. Excuse me, that's what we're going to tell you. Are we going to bring this up as a shortcoming? For example, if a person does not have an inventory policy, the inventory supporting the accounts should not be credible, which should support the balance sheet items in the accounts. I'm sorry, but I'm going to say to the former party director of DK: you were controlled, so it's highly incompatible to comment, I believe. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: Come on, come on, you say that as a former Fidesz representative!]] You're bringing up your own sins, your mistakes here, against me, who, by the way, didn't make any statements. He speaks for himself, while, for years in DK, it was not only in one case, and it was not in his headquarters, but in one of his premises, but I would not go into the details now, because I think the court has made a clear decision not to comply with the law. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: It's not true!]] I can't demand that you do, but you have to face the situation that if someone reads through DK's annual accounts, which you listed or didn't write, but you were responsible for spending money, we had to determine that it wasn't legal. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: It is not true, that is the case!]] I do not think that Parliament should discuss a specific subject of scrutiny at the time. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: You brought it up!]] When the auditor assessed the evidence, the audit director made the findings. In this sense, the President of the SAO treats this objectively. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Oh, right!]] Yeah, maybe if you were president of the SAO, you'd have your say in this, but I'm not gonna tell you that an audit director, for which the law creates the possibility, should decide on his own and make his own determination. I'm not even saying... [[He's taking a moment's break.]] I'm being specific. I understand that if you want to defend yourself, because you have to account for your membership, you have to account for your organizations. We have seen that parties are saying things that are no longer here with what a tragic environment they had when they ceased to exist in Parliament. Small Farmer's Party, MDF [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: SZDSZ!]] D.O.D. It's pretty nasty. I do not wish you to go this way. I think that we really are in favour of controlling parties in every case. Separately, the directors were also partners who came and we informed them. Now, compared to that, I don't understand this vast hatred and anger. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Come on, come on.]] We are actually supportive of it, as the Parliament calls on the SAO, even for the parties, in the campaign, and for the settlement of your party. Still, that's the rejoinder. However, I think that my optimism, my good intentions have remained unchanged, so I realize that some people are not attracted to the SAO's display of a mirror for their farming. There's only one thing I have to respond to, I think I've only got two minutes. [[On behalf of the President:]] Then there will be. I'll tell you this thing, it's important, because I've been asked to give you information on current matters. I thank you for your comments on a lot of cases, but they weren't about 21, as Imre Vejkey said. It was about many other years, about 18, 19, 20, 11, 22 and even 23, if I understand correctly. However, it is quite unfair to say that the SAO's position on budget 23 does not agree. The SAO has no such position. We're gonna talk about this tomorrow. at the internal quality assurance meeting. I haven't read it yet, maybe you have, and I certainly haven't signed it yet, even though the signature is not only a technical condition, but also a responsibility. Right? 'Cause they told me, but why do you have to sign a document? Well, because it proves that you saw that document, that it was adopted in accordance with the law, and that it was certified. It's an authentication. So the SAO doesn't have a credible opinion on budget 23, because we haven't written it yet. We will bring you in by Friday, and we will ensure that next week, the budget debate of the year 23 will take place. I'm sorry, I don't think the congressman who complained about this is here right now, or there were two of these Members who had the opinion of the SAO. But it's very difficult for me to argue with an opinion that I don't have. Believe me, I have 24 years of experience in this house, and I have said that I am very patient about what is being said. I know what has already been said here and the opposite, but I really ask you to reconsider why the Court of Auditors' report is not supported. [[14.20]] I believe that we have been able to report good things about integrity, for example. Two opposing opinions have been expressed, and I must obviously also take note of this. One says we've done nothing about integrity when there was a pandemic, and the other says we've done nothing about integrity. I think that in the last two years, but within this I will remain in 2021, the SAO has carried out the most extensive evaluation, audit and investigation of all times, and has given feedback to all the leaders in that particular presidential awareness letter, because since 2011, only the President has had such powers. This worked very effectively and was very positive for those to whom we wrote. And, of course, it was very important that in these reports not only what we found in the past was, of course, the problem finder and they asked what it meant, but the findings, the errors were collected and sent in a letter to the leader. And if he did so, he improved, and we recreated the report, incorporated the reactions into it, and we published the evaluation together, not denying what the pre-control status was, and what the post-vision status was. If observed, this joint assessment showed a significant improvement in the integrity of the opposition and government side, independent actors, civilians or municipalities. Significant efforts have been made in the absence of knowledge, in the absence of technical difficulties, due to the misunderstanding of the laws, and a mayor has been able to move even stronger and more decisively against his own body or notary. For example, corporate managers have been given a very strong support to reach the decisions needed by the owners or to build a system-wide control system in order to actually act. And I very much agree that one expert is not enough, so the integrity expert is not the solution. It was a solution of 11 and 12, but at that time the word "empowerment" was not yet known to the 26,000 organisations; some of it was not even mandatory. We also recognise the measures taken by the government, as the government, after lengthy correspondence and consultation, has obliged a wide range of companies to enhance the integrity controls of the COSO model set out by the European Union. And right in the first year, we went to help this happen, so that they would not wait another five years, and that what happened after 2004 in the Hungarian municipal and institutional sphere did not happen, so that until 11 we could not build up the legal framework under which the systemic legal conditions of anti-corruption would have existed. I think we've come a long way from this. This is obviously always challenging, there are always new driving risks, cases in which action needs to be taken, which need to be polished. We also see that it is possible to be better from one year to the next. What worked badly three years ago can be viewed very critically from here, but this is why the change of concept was important, which was formulated just last year, and, as one Member said in the debate, a parliamentary decision was made to give more support and advice. We built a very powerful series of steps in the online system during the pandemic, which, of course, is not as cheap as renting a room. Although I'm telling you, anyone who's supposed to travel isn't cheap enough to travel to, say, the SAO building or any room. As they say, there's no free lecture, it's got some kind of cost background. But the fact that in such a difficult management, pandemic management situation, so many co-operating leaders wanted to learn, I treated it as a positive. Of course, it is possible to read negative things about the situation of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian public spending, and unfortunately we also have to write about it; the reports are still public today and you can see this in them. However, overall, they said that I did not summarize, as I said at the beginning, the public financial situation in Hungary improved. The heads of the institutions, the government leaders, the state leaders took action against the systemic risks. They built this system. Those who didn't have it were called to the attention of us to encourage them, to make a suggestion, to make a statement, to write a letter of awareness, to check them out, as has been said. But it's not a court-ordered threat, it's not an official recovery. They're all helping, fixing tools. Once again, the SAO's mandate is not an authority, we don't play authority. By the way, it happened in the previous period. In fact, we have always written and sent it to the authorities, even in the annex to the reports. But instead of the authorities, we can't investigate, we just raise suspicions. And from what we suspect, an authority can freely decide that this does not comply with the investigative conditions; it is an irregularity, but it is not a criminal offence, it is not a deliberate crime. And if it's not intentional, there's no criminal procedure. This is precisely the gap in the SAO, which is trying to investigate and verify public financial irregularities. And maybe we're doing this as one organ. I wish the NAV could do it, but he's a tax-seeking guy, and he's putting the view of a tax-deficit search to the fore. That's not what the SAO does. I have to tell you about the civilians. We didn't get a simple law. Once again, it is a great honor for the SAO to look at another, several thousand... overall, only 10 thousand NGOs were granted state support last year by the Treasury. So this is a very big circle. And, of course, there are some places where they could get them not from the Treasury, but from local governments, local government companies or other places. So this is a very extensive circle. And of course, there are those like 173 parties, of which 170 did not even think of running for election, yet international observers asked that the SAO check them out. That's why we did it. Of course, I know that you have publicly said that we have not taken any of the OSCE recommendations in Hungary, but the SAO has taken it. I understand that this is easier to say, but at least here in the debate it could be said that the SAO had at least heard it. And after four years, when there were so many problems with fake partying, which we made eight complaints about, or nine, my colleagues will count them together, so many of us, in a preventive way, said that the most critical parties, the parties that will start in the elections, should have the conditions if they do get public money. I don't think anyone has a problem with that. Then what is wrong with other civil society organisations, sports organisations, educational or social organisations? Plus, they get normative. They receive the same financial conditions as state or municipal institutions. Or do you think it's the ecclesiasticals that have to be checked, and not the non-christian ones? Or the other way around? We have really tried to take these questions on an equal footing. The normative is HUF 500 billion a year, which is used by organisations outside the public finances to carry out their public tasks. So, in the light of the law, we have broken it down into three steps, and I would like to report on this. First, in the first step, we announced self-tests and training to these organisations at the end of 2021. The law was adopted sometime in 2021, in the middle of the semester or in the autumn, and by the end of 21 we had organized to find and address these organizations at all. We also found large sports club circles and larger alliances, who helped us to reach this circle, since it is not so easy to find their records. And when we've been through this, in 2022, in the last few weeks that you've been quoting, the Court of Auditors is already in a preparatory phase. The SAO is trying to lead the leaders of the organisations to review the existing documents, which the Member has also said. By the way, we asked for less than that, only six of them related to NAV control or any member. For example, if you want to see clearly how your child is financed in a sports club, or if you want to see a nursing home where you have relatives, you need more than that. [[14.30]] For these... we addressed these documents, which the SAO would like to clarify in the first step this year, and the seventh document will be the financial report issued on 31 May 21 which, according to the accounting law, should be approved by the membership, by the association or the board of trustees of the foundation, and should sign and make known and see from this. Yes, but this document does not need to be placed anywhere, but it really needs to be posted on the website of the OBH, but there must be a different document, which has been regulated for 20 years. We have already drawn this attention to the fact that there may be problems in determining, according to the law, who might be involved in this civil law, because there are exceptions, there are 20 million balance sheet totals, but they are not registered anywhere. Therefore, we have tried to take the page that, if the NAV were to go there, or if it were to request membership, they should also be prepared for the existence of the basic seven documents, since you expect an evaluation by the Court of Auditors by the end of 21, according to the law. It is therefore expected that these data in the preparatory phase will be recently completed. We addressed 3249 organizations, some of them at the office gate, who didn't have one, and some of them on paper. 2928 organizations took over their letter at the office gate, which is a huge achievement, we can say that digital progress, 2457 organisations also provided data at first, and this, believe me, is a better ratio than the previous experience of municipalities, institutions, first disclosure of data. So this civil sphere is much more disciplined than you assume, rather than being a law-abiding man, and is considered less offensive. It seems to me that most of you understand that these are necessary. It is true that they have said that, yes, they may not have looked at this for five years, that it is not for the SAO at all, but for the sake of normal functioning, so that they can count towards the members or even towards the donors, so it is the most elementary financial documents. In this regard, let me say, yes, in the third stage, which we planned for after July, how we actually look for those who are the law... You're all asking how we know that it's an organization that affects public life. The law clearly states that they are larger than 20 million balance sheet totals [[László Sebian-Petrovski: This is a joke!]] and who is under this, is not, but there are exceptions, for which we do not yet see how we should find that they are subject to the exceptions, for the moment we know only if we ask them. Now, this can be taken as an attack, of course, but since they don't have it on their foreheads anywhere, and we haven't found it in any record, so this dilemma is that we now have legal support for this, or we certainly have to face the fact that we are asking for data from hundreds of organisations that are not ultimately subject to the exceptions; or on the contrary, that, since they do not match their actual accounts in their accounts, the over 20 million people are not sure that they are on it, although my colleagues are writing here now I am more deeply impressed because we weren't even here that the Statistical Office, and I'm about to find out in which register all civil society organisations should provide appropriate data, and we have tried to get it out of it, but the data they provide, we can now see from the answers, it's not real. I'll give you an example. Says an organization [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That he doesn't have an apology, a sentence! 20 million in total, but he wrote 528 thousand forints, but he didn't write behind it... he didn't look at the fact that there was a letter behind it, and therefore it is registered as 528 million. Now, in the complexities of the Hungarian register, I admit, we are involved, we are now faced with these situations, that not all authentic records are public records, or not all public records are authentic records, so it is obvious that these comments, which have been said in this regard, I will consider what we will propose now, if this second stage of the advisory role is completed. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your patience and for the Members' comments and opinions. Believe me, as much as I said that I didn't always feel that he was friendly, we always appreciate it, we take into account it, so I am convinced that he will be in the following. Thanks again for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-14-83	I would like to ask Mr Mihály Witzmann, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision, on behalf of the Economic Committee, to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Mihály Witzmann: No, thank you very much.]] He says he doesn't want to. In this case, I would like to inform my fellow Members that they have the opportunity to submit the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill on the publication of the seat agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Visegrád Patent Institute until its closure. The government referral is T/208. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Eszter Vitalyos, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture and Innovation, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2022-06-14-84	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, For Hungary and the Hungarian Government, cooperation between the Visegrád countries is of paramount importance, which has a versatile potential to contribute to the stability and competitiveness of our region. The importance of cooperation in Visegrád is indicated by the growing institutionalisation of certain areas, and each V4 country can only be the winner of this process. A good example can be given by the Visegrad Patent Institute in this draft law. The bill on the publication of the headquarters agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Visegrád Patent Institute is an important step in the life of Hungary as a home state and the Institute. In today's world, knowledge and research and development based on it, as well as the innovation activity of economic operators on this basis, are without doubt the sure foundation that makes our economy completely crisis-resistant by the 21st century. It also determines our country's future potential. Technical innovations and the results of research and development must be protected by the use of the patent system. However, without the acquisition of foreign patent protection, our most competitive companies would not be able to protect their market, nor would a safe exit to the world market. The Visegrád Patent Institute facilitates easier access to, use of the international patent system for Hungarian whistleblowers and significantly supports the research and development efforts of our region and, in particular, of Hungary's companies. The Visegrád Patent Institute has been established in Budapest since 1 July 2016. The Institute sets an example of the opportunities for cooperation in Visegrád in the field of closer cooperation, builds on the resources of our region and creates new quality by involving them. By getting to know each other better through the industrial property protection, including the patent area, the Visegrad Patent Institute is also serving our region's cohesion, and at the same time allows patent applicants in our region to take on the same chance of conquering the world as citizens and businesses in Europe's more developed economy. Dear Parliament, The registered office agreement contained in the draft law settles the legal status of the Visegrád Patent Institute granted by Hungary, and determines the scope of the exemptions and privileges granted to officials. In addition, the ratification of the Headquarters Agreement also sends a very important positive regional message. [[14.40]] Hungary also expresses its commitment to the common goals of our region, in particular to support innovation and increase patent activity, by recognising the binding force of the headquarters agreement. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-14-85	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Elijah Boglárka, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-14-86	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, Visegrád cooperation is an association based on a common historical basis, defining common goals, which is, to say, unique in Europe. The main objective of the initiative is to develop long-term cooperation, in particular in the fields of the economy, the common foreign and security policy and culture, education, the environment, transport, energy, science and technology. This bill also shows that working together with the four countries can address issues such as meaningful cooperation that facilitates patenting abroad. The intergovernmental organisation, the Visegrad Patent Institute, was established in Budapest in 2015. To facilitate patenting abroad, the patent cooperation agreement, which was administered by the World Intellectual Property Organisation, was established in 1970. The system is based on a network of cooperating national agencies, authorities and the International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organisation. Within this framework, the Visegrád Patent Institute is a patent cooperation contract, or authority. In the past, our applicants had to deal with a remote office in their patent cases, but with the establishment of the Visegrád Patent Institute, our region also became its own authority. Of course, the Visegrád Patent Institute, as an international authority, must also meet strict criteria for quality, patent, documentation and human resources, placing our region on the world patent map. The Visegrád Patent Institute started its activities on 1 July 2016 by receiving international patent applications, allowing legal and natural persons resident in the V4 region, such as research institutes, companies and individual inventors, to conduct their international patent applications locally and in a native language. The work here is characterised by flexible and quick administration. The draft law on the seat agreement before us settles the legal status of the Visegrád Patent Institute granted by Hungary and sets out the exemptions and privileges granted to officials. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-14-87	I am speaking to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, who is the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-14-88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Deputy Minister, I'm always happy when we see women in leadership positions, it seems like today's a little bit our day, too. I would like to mention, first of all, that today is also the World Day of Blood Taxes, and I would also like to thank the donors who have provided lifesaving help from here. Let us now really get to the point of publishing the headquarters agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Visegrád Patent Institute. The Central European region, as we have already heard, did not have its own patent authority, so in any case their notifiers had to deal with a remote office in their patent cases. The Visegrád Patent Institute was established in 2015 by the four Visegrád countries and, as the Deputy Minister said now, started its operation in 2016. This is an intergovernmental organisation based in Budapest, which aims to ensure meaningful cooperation in the field of patenting abroad. Although the national patent offices of the Visegrád countries all meet the requirements for quality and patent documentation, their number of patent examiners failed to reach the required patent assessment capacity of 100 persons individually. This is why the Visegrád Patent Institute was established as an international organisation, which also fulfils this condition. The proposal before us provides a seat for this organisation, which provides for a standard exemption for the organisation and its staff for international organisations. I trust that the operation of the Visegrád Patent Institute will also contribute to the faster assessment of the Hungarian patent applications, and therefore the MSZP supports the adoption of this bill. However, I think it is extremely important that the kind of Visegrád cooperation that has experienced a lot of things, since it is over 30 years old, it would be very important for you to get your dynamism back again, which I think has gotten us out of trouble a lot, if I may say so. So I definitely think that once again we should give the Visegrad countries strength. I'm confident that even this patent office might be able to help you with that. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-14-89	The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, is next. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-90	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Congressman Lords! Madam Secretary! The existence of close historical, cultural and economic relations between the Visegrád countries is indisputable. The V4 has now become a brand name, and one of the foundations for V4's success, as the Secretary of State stressed, is her ability to renew, enabling it to respond to the challenges of the age, thereby further deepening relations between the countries of the region. The secret of this cooperation is that the V4 countries work together in areas where they share a similar position, thus strengthening each other. One of the new levels of this regional cooperation was the agreement signed in 2015 on the establishment of the Visegrad Patent Institute. The Institute started its operation in 2016, as my colleague said, as an intergovernmental organisation established by the four Visegrad countries, whose main objective was substantive cooperation in the field of patent. The main aim of the Institute is to offer positive and effective opportunities to users of the patent system in the Central and Eastern European region, i.e. to promote the patenting of innovative businesses in Visegrad and some neighbouring countries, in particular SMEs, universities and research institutes, as well as individual inventors abroad. It is important to note that our region did not have its own patent cooperation authority before the Institute, so the notifiers had to deal with these issues in a remote office, which was a barrier to smooth administration. The national patent offices of all four countries meet the requirements for quality and patent documentation, but they could not reach the capacity of the 100-person patent examiner in themselves to create such an authority, which is why it is important. On the other hand, the combined V4 patent capacity will thus reach 180 people, thus fulfilling this human resources criterion. This also proves that V4 cooperation also has a number of opportunities that could lead to further strengthening of the region. Thanks to the Institute, legal and natural persons resident in the V4 regions can conduct international patent applications locally and in their mother tongue, which is a huge step forward. It also promotes the patenting of national R &amp; D and innovation results of V4 notifiers abroad with a significant reduction in research fees, in addition to rapid and flexible administration. Ladies and gentlemen, The headquarters of Budapest, in connection with which the seat agreement currently under discussion settles the status of Hungary, determines the documents of the premises as well as the status, privileges and immunity of its staff, which serve to ensure the independent exercise of its tasks. This is an extremely important proposal and is therefore supported by KDNP. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2022-06-14-91	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one else has come forward to speak, so I would like to ask if someone else would like to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the secretary of state on behalf of the author. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos indicates that she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate, so I give the floor. Here you go, Madam Secretary. [[14.50]]
u2022-06-14-92	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you very much for all three of your contributions. I think that the country's potential for the future is also greatly influenced by its performance in the field of research and development, innovation, and, of course, I believe that we also need to promote patenting. That is why we believe that the cooperation of the V4 is particularly important within the framework of this bill, and I think that I would like to say this to Mrs Gurmai that it will not be up to us to get the V4 back in motion, and to work together once again in a very close cooperation. So thank you once again for your contributions and I will ask the Parliament to continue to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-14-93	Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. A general discussion of the proposed legislation between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the promotion and mutual protection of investments between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and on the extension of this Agreement to the Isle of Man, the Bailiwicks of Guernsey and Jersey, Gibraltar, the Turks and Caicos Islands and Bermuda, in Budapest, on 25 October 1991 and 7 November 1991, on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The government referral is T/210. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Azbej Tristan, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-94	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to fulfil Hungary's obligations arising from its membership of the European Union and to implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union binding on the Member States. Please allow me first to briefly explain the content of the judgment on which the bill is based and its legal consequences for Hungary. In its judgment in the case of the Slovak Republic v Achmea BV, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union precludes the arbitration clause contained in international investment protection agreements concluded between Member States. According to the arbitration clause, if an investor in a Member State of the European Union invests in another Member State and there is a dispute about the investment, the investor may initiate arbitration proceedings against the Member State of the Union concerned. According to the court, the arbitration clauses set out in the bilateral investment agreements within the EU described above are contrary to EU law. In order to implement the Achmea judgment and to establish a coordinated action at EU level, Member States have undertaken to terminate all their bilateral investment protection agreements in a plurilateral or, if so, more effective, bilateral manner. In order to eliminate bilateral investment agreements between Member States in an orderly manner, a multifaceted agreement was reached on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union, which were signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020. This agreement was signed by a total of 23 Member States, including Hungary, which was signed by the 2020 LXI in Hungary. It's been announced by law. The United Kingdom has not signed this multifaceted agreement with Austria, Sweden, Finland and Ireland. Although the United Kingdom has left the European Union, it has undertaken to terminate the investment protection agreement with all Member States. In its oral list of 18 January 2022, the Embassy of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland proposed, by common accord, to terminate the investment protection agreement in force between the two States and to extend this Agreement. Accordingly, the United Kingdom's oral list together with Hungary's reply list constitute an agreement to terminate the investment protection agreement between these two States. On the basis of the Hungarian legislation, the mandate of the Parliament is necessary for the adoption by the Hungarian party of the termination of the international legal obligation in question. The termination shall be ordered by law and the replacement of the register containing the termination by mutual agreement shall be published in the same law. In addition, the previous publication act is 5/1988. It is also necessary to provide for the repeal of the Council of Ministers Regulation No 1. The agreement which is the subject of this bill therefore results in the termination of the investment protection agreement between Hungary and the United Kingdom. One of the main functions of the agreement is to fix the termination of the provision of the investment protection agreement without any further legal effect. Thus, it is adequately ensured that the bilateral investment protection agreement is not capable of generating additional legal effects after termination. Dear Parliament, By concluding the agreement, Hungary is fulfilling its obligation under EU law, and I therefore ask the honourable Members to accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-14-95	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mrs Boglárka Elijah. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-96	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam President, Dear Parliament, In its decision on a specific case in March 2018, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated that investment protection agreements concluded between two EU Member States which could lead the parties to bring proceedings against each other before an arbitration tribunal were contrary to Union law. According to the court, such agreements undermine the system of redress provided for by EU treaties, jeopardise the effectiveness, priority and direct scope of EU law. Following the judgment of the Court, Member States have undertaken to terminate all their investment protection agreements between themselves in order to comply with Union law. In line with this commitment, the bill provides for the termination of an investment defence agreement concluded between Hungary and the United Kingdom in 1987 and published by the Council of Ministers under the rules at that time, which provides precisely for such arbitration dispute settlement, as well as a protocol extending its scope to certain overseas territories and crown addictions of the United Kingdom, four years later. The investment protection agreement states that, in the event of termination, its provisions shall continue to apply for another 20 years for all investments that have been set up under the agreement. By way of derogation, the parties now agree that this expiry clause will be abolished in such a way that it is not capable of producing any additional legal effects. This agreement was signed by the British Embassy in Budapest and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Ladies and gentlemen, As you can see, this is a proposal of a purely legal nature, which, as it provides for the termination of an international treaty, must be declared by law. On behalf of the Fidesz Group, I would like your support for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-14-97	We now have the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go.
u2022-06-14-98	Thank you very much. Madam President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The reason behind the bill is that the Court of Justice of the European Union indeed stated in 2018 that the arbitration clause contained in international investment protection agreements between Member States is contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. [[15.00]] The decision is that this undermines the system of redress provided by the EU Treaties and jeopardises the autonomy and direct scope of EU law. I've been told that before, by the way. However, in order to comply with Union law, Member States have undertaken to terminate all their bilateral investment protection agreements. In recent years an agreement of similar content has been concluded with Sweden, Finland and Austria, and for the same reason, it is, in fact, a routine procedure. In order to ensure that the Hungarian legal system fully complies with the single EU legislation, the MSZP Group proposes and supports the bill for adoption. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-14-99	I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-14-100	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, With the United Kingdom, our country took up diplomatic relations 101 years ago, on May 22, 1921. As a consequence of the Brexit, it is also very important to keep in touch and to care for relationships. As my fellow Members have said, and Mr Secretary of State stressed, this is primarily about consistency with European Union law, since in the case of the Slovak Republic v. Achmea, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union must comply with the international investment protection agreements that we are talking about. In the event that an arbitration clause is concluded by the Member States in international investment protection agreements, it is contrary to Articles 344 and 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and therefore the current legislative proposal is necessary. In this regard, I ask for your support, KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-06-14-101	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask you now that someone has applied for further speeches. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the author if he would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says no. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Oman on the publication of an agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments until the closure of the bill. The government referral is T/209. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Azbej Tristan, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-06-14-102	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you adds a new element to the legislative framework for the development of economic relations between Hungary and the Omani Sultanate. The aim of the agreement to be announced is to promote bilateral Hungarian-Romanian economic relations, including investment relations, and to make the investment environment safer and more favourable. The agreement concerns investments made by investors from both countries in each other's territory. The agreement therefore serves the protection and legal certainty of Hungarian investors established in the Omani Sultanship on a reciprocal basis, which is of particular importance in the Middle East region with a number of market opportunities. The external economic strategic objective of Hungary's Government is to encourage foreign investments by Hungarian companies and to balance the profits generated there with the profits exported by foreign investors. The implementation of this strategy is based, inter alia, on the establishment of bilateral investment protection agreements, such as the agreement between Hungary and Omani Sultanság. Since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty in 2009, foreign direct investment has been part of the common policy within the European Union. This means that the Member States of the European Union can conclude an investment protection agreement with other countries if the European Commission has issued a mandate to approve it in addition to the necessary national authorisation. In the case of the agreement between Hungary and Omani Sultanság, the agreement was signed on 2 February 2022. The Treaty was therefore concluded on the basis of the guidelines of the European Union and with its approval. Dear House, One of the main functions of the agreement is to provide investors in both countries with legal guarantees to protect their investments. In the area of the Omani Sultanship, several domestic companies are currently informed about future investment. It is of particular importance for investors to ensure fair and impartial settlement of any disputes that may arise against the State. Thanks to this agreement, Hungarian investors and their investments can expect international legal protection when resolving any disputes. The agreement complies with the content requirements set by international standards. The agreement contains a number of guarantee elements for companies investing abroad, including the principle of non-discrimination and the principle of maximum benefit and national treatment. Investment protection agreements, including this agreement, provide a way to resolve disputes between the investor and the State. This provision constitutes the main guarantee for investors and therefore forms part of any investment protection agreement. At the same time, the modern provisions of the agreement put the possibility of foreign investors being sued against Hungary within an appropriate legal framework. Dear Parliament, We expect the conclusion of the agreement to help the development of economic and investment relations between Hungary and Oman through the protection of investors. I would ask honourable Members and women to accept the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-06-14-103	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Azbei Tristan. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mrs Boglárka Elijah.
u2022-06-14-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary is committed to extending and strengthening the economic cooperation with the Sultanate of Oman, which is also indicated by the fact that in 2019 the Hungarian Embassy of Maskati opened with the participation of Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Following the ceremony, bilateral meetings took place, under which Minister Yusuf bin Alávi signed a cooperation agreement with Minister for Foreign Affairs. The successful cooperation is well indicated by the fact that, although Oman generally has a positive external trade balance, Hungary has been closing with surplus since 2017 in terms of its trade with Oman. MOL is the main driver of the significant development of our trade relations, which has been seeking closer cooperation with the other party in recent years. It is important to note that, according to the country risk classification of EXIM and the guarantee rules, Oman falls under the country risk category 4, so it can be ensured. The Hungarian companies interested in the region have been assisted by the Middle East and Africa branch of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry since its establishment in 1999, which contributes to fruitful cooperation through the organisation of business meetings and information forums. This bill is in line with the joint effort to create and maintain favourable conditions for investment by investors of one Contracting Party in the territory of the other Contracting Party, thereby facilitating business initiatives that contribute to economic development. [[15.10]] This requires, of course, a legal framework. The concept of investment and fair and equitable settlement of disputes relating to the activities of investors should be defined. It is an essential provision of the Agreement to provide for the application of the principles of national treatment and maximum benefit by providing for justified exceptions. It provides for the transfer of income generated and the practice to be followed in the event of a possible nationalisation in the future. In addition to legal guarantees, it is of particular importance for investors to settle possible disputes under fair, impartial arbitration, even against the State. The Agreement also provides for the regulatory right of the parties, non-discrimination, conditions of compensation, transfer of rights, facilitation of the granting of work permits to investors of the Contracting Party and their key staff, transparency, regulation of the scope of negotiations on the interpretation or application of the Agreement, entry into force and issues relating to termination and modification of the period of validity. This agreement was based on the Prime Minister's decision authorising the establishment of agreements on the promotion and mutual protection of investments and the European Commission's decision of 9 September 2020, signed on 2 February 2022 by Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, on the Hungarian side, in Maskat. The period of ten years of the Agreement shall be extended automatically, unless a Contracting Party terminates it in writing at least one year before or at any time after the expiry of that period. In order to protect investments, the Contracting Parties also provided that the provisions of the Agreement, for investments made before the termination of the Agreement, would remain capable of producing legal effects for another 10 years after the termination of the Agreement. Dear Parliament, For the sake of our country's economic development, please support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-14-105	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Elias Boglarka. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2022-06-14-106	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Hungary seems to wish to strengthen its relations with a number of eastern countries; in November 2020, the Kyrgyz Republic, Kosovo in February 2021 and Iran in December, submitted proposals with very similar content. These agreements were also submitted in connection with the introduction into law of agreements on the promotion and protection of investments. Accordingly, the aim of the proposal before us, as my fellow Member mentioned earlier, is also the development of economic relations between the two countries and thus the promotion of further investment. The main point of the agreement on which the motion is based is that investors in both countries should be provided with legal guarantee elements to protect their investments, which will help ensure the safer functioning of businesses in each other's territory. Similar agreements are not against the interests of the domestic economy, we usually vote in favour of these initiatives, so the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports the adoption of the bill.
u2022-06-14-107	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-06-14-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 1990, we have been in diplomatic relations with the Omani Sultanate for more than 30 years, and since 2019, thanks to our Maskat embassy, our personal presence has also been ensured in the country, the first among Central and Eastern European countries. Our bilateral relations are completely conflict-free and open political issues do not involve diplomatic relations between the two countries. Cooperation has already been achieved in a number of areas, but I would like to point out, in addition to what has been said so far, that it is important in relation to the two countries that the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme can teach in Hungary every year. It's a very big deal. However, in order to further develop these economic relations, there is also a need for government cooperation due to the large geographical distances. The cooperation between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Omani Sultanship signed in 2022 will contribute to this. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to what has been said, the aim of the agreement is to improve economic relations between the two countries, make the conditions for investment activities in each other more favourable and secure, and therefore KDNP supports the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-06-14-109	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment in two minutes, maybe 15 minutes. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Azbej Tristan, that he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] It says you've been told everything, thank you very much. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazánk, who has asked to speak after the agenda, what is happening in the South Great Plain? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Szabadi.
u2022-06-14-110	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Many people contact me to know that I am from Bács-Kiskun county, and I was a member of the county council and county assembly earlier, and a representative of the Municipality of Kiskunhalas, so I would like to give you information on the subject that many people are already asking me about the renewal of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. That is why the title of my statement after the agenda is what is happening in the South Great Plain so that I can give you concrete information. On 17 January 2014, representatives of Hungary, the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China signed a letter of intent on the renewal of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. However, the ceremony took place in Kiskunhalas for almost eight years, on 15 October 2021. With the two-track rail development with a speed limit of 160 km/h, the aim is to reduce travel time between Budapest and Belgrade from 8 to 3.5 hours, and to link the traffic from the Chinese port of Pyreus with Western Europe. The renovation of the Serbian section is from Chinese and Russian loans, the renewal of the Hungarian section is from Chinese loans, except that while the Serbians plan to complete the 183 km phase from 610 billion HUF, the total cost of the development of the Soroksár-Kelebia 160 km long railway line is estimated at 750 billion HUF. In Serbia, the Russian state railway, acting as the main contractor, therefore works at a cost of 1.4 billion forints per km compared to the Hungarian representation of the Chinese railway company and the consortium belonging to Lőrinc Mészáros's interest. The other rail development affecting the population of the southern lowland region is the development of the Szeged-Director-Röszke border railway track and the safety equipment, as well as the electrification of the section. This renovation was started only one month after the Kiskunhalas foundation stone was laid, on 15 November 2021, despite the fact that the Budapest-Kelebia railway line must be completed with a route from Budapest to Szabadka. [[15.20]] Its history dates back to November 2011, when the feasibility study of the railway line Szeged-Szabadka-Baja was completed, for which Hungary and Serbia paid a total of 380,000 euros to a Danish company and 118 million forints at that time. The original goal was to avoid connecting the crowded railway network in Budapest with the European south traffic with the West, and the 45 km distance can be taken by express train in half an hour instead of two hours and by passenger train in an hour and in 70 minutes. In January 2014, the subsidiaries of the same Danish company in Hungary and Serbia also prepared the approval plans of the Szeged-Szabadka section and the environmental impact study of the Szabadka-Baja section, which cost the two countries EUR 1 149 500, i.e. HUF 345 million at the current rate. On the basis of the completed preparatory documents, the building permit for the railway development of Szeged-Röszke was issued on 26 July 2017, which is valid for five years. After such a history, it is incomprehensible that the business contract for the development of the Budapest-Kelebia railway line was concluded earlier in May 2019 than for the development of the Szeged-Röszke railway line, since the latter was only decided by the government in August 2019 and the investor MÁV Zrt. and concluded the business contract in December 2020 with V-Híd Építő Zrt., which is also part of Lőrinc Mészáros's interest, which was modified in February this year due to the drawdown of the option. According to the contract, the construction works of the Szeged-Director-Röszke border railway line and the delta tracks linking the 136 Szabadkai railway lines and the 140 Budapest railway lines are currently carried out at a total of 15 kilometres, the total value of the investment is HUF 45 billion. The renovation is planned to be completed by August 2022, as in the Serbian section, since the freight traffic will cross the border from Kelebia to Röszk. It is also urged that the building permit expires on 26 July 2022. The question arises, as my time is limited to the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] affected by the government 1281/2022. a decision on the basis of which public investment was suspended for the purpose of a review. Will the renewal work begin this year? Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. Thank you.
u2022-06-14-111	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabadi. Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, asked for a post-meeting address with the title of stars falling on the rooks of Omló.
u2022-06-14-112	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would have preferred to talk to a literary subject about this masterpiece by Béni Egressy, but unfortunately I gave this title to my speech metaphorically. Dear Minister of the Interior, In an older, more specifically, 12 - year - old promise, he claimed to eliminate crime in two weeks. Not only crime, but law enforcement have been effectively eliminated; it is no wonder, since the net salary of a beginner patrolman is HUF 160,000. We are talking about a job where workers are putting their physical integrity at risk for the protection of citizens. In the eyes of the state, it was enough to put the pay ranking in 412, and the police just slid in front of the maintenance staff. No financial recognition, no professional respect, no professional success, because even if criminals are collected by law enforcement, they are often released before the report is completed by a staff member of the determining authority. In the case of the police, it is not a career model, but a deterrent model, which is the security of all of us, the security of public safety. It is a good indicator of the inadequacy of the current system that the number of supplies required and necessary in police secondary schools is indiscriminate. False and false statistics will not save or preserve anyone's life or property, nor will they prevent crime by increasing the amount of infringement, nor will the ongoing windmill fight make law enforcement more effective. According to our Hungary Movement, order is the basis for everything, so the situation of the Hungarian police will not tolerate any more delays, police personnel will not ask for any more endurance, but will require immediate intervention, both at the level of the satisfaction of the stock, which can be achieved with a suitable career model, appreciation, professionalism and prestige. The question arises that the same fate awaits other institutions that come under the Ministry of Interior and will be managed by it in the future, such as health care or education. What would show this better than the departure of healthcare workers in 2021, who nearly 17,000 left their jobs because of the Covid measures, their changed legal relationship and their salary, and their contempt. The fact that the government was able to drive the nurses away during a viral crisis outlines the future of health care. Health and social workers who want to stay on their careers, either go abroad or work in the private sector, and Hungarian society has become one of the sickest nations in a 12-year-old regiment of a national government. We can't really talk about prevention, but we can't really talk about patient care, and the only person who really knows that is the one who's been forced to cross the threshold of a hospital lately. An empty health care, a sick nation, cannot be built on the society of the future and the future of Hungary. Well, what about education? One would think that education would be given a prominent role under a national government, because the survival of Hungarians, the future of our country, depends on it, the children and future generations will form the society of the future Hungary. As it stands, this is not the future I intend for our country. How can we expect a teacher to do education by earning an average gross HUF 275,000 up to the age of 30? For that amount of money, they expect to spend eight hours a day with children, set an example for them, and present them with a vision that shows that if they grow up, they will manage in this country, not as policemen, not as health workers and not as teachers. We cannot stress that youth is the key to our future, and that we cannot allow our young people to emigrate because of irresponsible and less forward-looking policies. Education is decades behind, spiritual standards are falling, teachers' pay is one of the worst in Europe, and students' educational material is XX. It's from the century. We propose that this should be rethinked and that we should be able to accept the introduction of life-preparation classes, language and IT education XXI. making it a century, and a significant increase in teachers' salaries. [[15.30]] Without these, we will only be at the end of the line, not in Europe, but slowly in Africa. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] According to our country, the problem is already huge, but we ask the competent ministry and the government to avoid escalation. [[The president's ringing again.]] , to immediately take soothing measures for everyone so that they are not crumbling bastions, but unwavering pillars...
u2022-06-14-113	Thank you very much.
u2022-06-14-114	.......................................................................................................................................... And not falling, but shining stars in the sky. Thank you very much for your attention and patience. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-14-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. Lajos Löcsei, representative of Momentum also applied for a post-meeting speech:. What should we do with the price explosion? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Levoèi.
u2022-06-14-116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am speaking today to bring you the problems of millions of Hungarian people. Yeah, I'm gonna talk about cutting prices. This is a taboo theme for Fidesz, but in Hungarian reality it is on the price tags of the store. Both the runaway prices are suffering from the mother handling the family register, the pensioner who is unable to replace the medicine, the workers who are barely able to pay rent in Pest and the public workers who want to survive overnight. And the worst is yet to come, the experts agree that the prices will increase even further. Even the Fidesz management of the central bank predicts accelerated inflation, i.e. declining real wages and real pensions. Well, they've been down a lot already. KSH has already acknowledged that inflation is above 12 percent, and you're barely correcting pensions by 3.9 percent. You do not even try to preserve the value of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian families have already struggled with double pressure: on the one hand, they have suffered from the world record Fidesz VAT for more than ten years, and on the other hand they are burdened with increasing inflation. And now for another, third blow, the huge Fidesz austerity package, the new taxes that you force the food chain, pharmaceutical distributors, banks, the entire Hungarian economy to increase prices. The latest price increases have already begun. You're pouring oil on the fire instead of putting it out. I know what the fidesz answer to that is, the famous reduction in overhead, they've been saying that for years every day. They've even appointed a government commissioner for security, and that's exactly what you guys did to yourself. Why wasn't the drug commissioner appointed? Why hasn't a food price commissioner been appointed? Where's the special government commissioner to stop the property prices? Who's in charge of the phone costs? I'm sure the bank costs are where. Who's got his back on it? Aren't those important? Well, certainly not for you, because if it were, I'd be protecting them with government officials. Let me give you just one example. Ladies and gentlemen. Do you know who Gyula Rusó is? I'll tell you: he is also a Fidesz government commissioner, and he is the government commissioner responsible for Hungarian subsidies to the toll system of the Indonesian road network. Yeah, you heard me, Indonesia. Even a government commissioner was appointed to the road network of an Asian island country ten thousand kilometers away, only to stop the runaway Hungarian food and pharmaceutical prices. Ladies and gentlemen. Why is Indonesia more important to you than Hungarian pharmaceutical prices? Understand, my fellow Members, it does not help Hungarian families to pay off what was saved at the ressin in shops and pharmacies; what is saved at the ressin will be tripled in cash. On top of that, the new austerity package, the historic austerity package of over 2,000 billion dollars, is now coming. They're gonna pump the prices even higher. Why? In the meantime, we have the gigantic HUF 6,000 billion grant waiting for us in Brussels, and we should just bring it, Fidesz MEPs. You are sworn to serve this country, it is your national duty to bring this support from Brussels. It is not true that because of the EU, they cannot bring it or point it at anyone else. All the other governments were able to make a deal with Brussels, only Fidesz alone. You're the only ones facing the freeway. You are proud to announce that you like to be thorns under my fingernails, to be a stick among the spokes, only to hide your own staff among the Hungarian spokes. My fellow Members, stop this, do not stand in the way of the billions of euros, do not deprive Hungary of this gigantic support. The Hungarian national interest is to take over the EU's billions, not the new restrictions, the new taxes and the new price increases. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-06-14-117	Thank you very much, Congressman Louis Löcsei. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of Parliament will take place as recommended by the House Committee. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. Have a good day, everyone.
