u2022-05-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. I would like to welcome my fellow Members and welcome everyone who is monitoring our programme today. [[Defiance.]] Our work today, of course, when the left-wing clerk arrives. [[He's taking a moment's break.]] In order to restore order, I respectfully ask one of the left-wing clerks to take my place as long as the serial notary appears, so that we can really start the work. [[Bence Rétvári: Who's gonna take on the serial notary? Bernadett Bakos is on his way to the pulpit. Cries from the pro-government benches: Bravo! Applause. When Bakos Bernadett gets to the pulpit, the president greets him with a handshake, and then they both take their seats.]] Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! It's May 10th. We have been celebrating birds and trees on this day for nearly thirty years. The tradition of this day is linked to a European Convention adopted 120 years ago in Paris, which served to protect birds that are useful in agriculture. The agreement was also signed by Hungary, and in 1902, ornithologist István Chernel organized the day of the first bird and tree. After a few years, it was legally ordered that the students be informed of the values of birds, trees, and nature and the importance of their protection in schools on one day of May each year. Instead of any day in May, a government decree adopted in 1994 designated 10 May to commemorate this great day, which was also included in the 1996 Nature Conservation Act, which is still in force. Ladies and gentlemen, Our human existence is a fundamental condition of the diversity and diversity of our Earth's living beings. The evolution of species is the natural system, an indicator of the health status of the ecosystem, which, unfortunately, indicates a steady decline in recent decades. English ecologist Charles Elton's comment from more than sixty years ago is valid today, saying that we have no doubt that the flora and fauna of our Earth are undergoing the greatest shock we have ever seen. Ladies and gentlemen, Birds are very sensitive to natural and man-made environmental changes, so they are also really good indicators for the assessment of ecosystem health. The figures are talkative: over the last 40 years, around 600 million birds have been lost in the European Union, of which 247 million are domestic sparrows. These are amazing numbers. Hungary's bird fauna is particularly rich, since, compared to the 445 species of poets in the European Union, 420 birds have been registered in Hungary until 2019 that have happened once in Hungary. That is why it is important to love and protect them. We can also do this by creating bird - fed, bird - friendly gardens, balconies, or helping birds that may be in distress, which will be rewarded with the song of birds to our soul and hopefully their multiplicity of presence. Each year, the Hungarian Bird of the Year is elected on the basis of the votes of the population, organized by the Hungarian Society for Biology and Nature Conservation. In 2022, this green spoke became a species of bird belonging to the woodpeckers family, which liked old trees. Its habitat is threatened by tree cuttings, so it finds its nesting place almost only in parks and groves, suitable for nesting trees. In the vote of the National Forestry Association, the big leaf linden was chosen as the tree of the year. The lime, which, according to popular beliefs, is the guardian of family peace, with the shadow of Bajmoc, also gave peace to our King Matthias. According to legends, he dictated his letters from under the linden tree opposite the castle gate, which began under our beloved Linden tree of Bajmóc. (Bakos Bernadett in the notary seat) Z. Kárpa is replaced by Daniel.) Ladies and gentlemen, Without wood, the landscape is not worth a penny. And the tree is empty, if it is not covered with a bird, as Imre Horváth says in his poem Hungarian poet of Transylvania. Let this be a warning to all of us to protect, protect, and preserve the richness of our creation! Thank you for your attention. Dear Parliament, I declare that on 9 May 2022, our colleague, Endre Tóth, informed me that the cause of conflict of interest against him had been terminated on 9 May 2022, so that from today, the Parliament and the parliamentary committees can exercise their right to vote, to submit a motion and to receive remuneration. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches before the agenda. Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, former group leader, applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-10-1	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much, Mr Bernadett Bakos, for making it possible for the meeting to start and this commemoration to take place. It also shows that LMP, the Green Party of Hungary, can always be expected in every situation. [[9.10]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for your commemorative thoughts. I think that we all feel and know that this day, the day of birds and trees, is one of the most important and symbolic nature conservation days, an important day, and that it is urging us today, in today's debates, to place a particular emphasis on discussing environmental issues and environmental challenges. We will act in this way, not only before the agenda, but today's sitting. It is perfectly clear to all, we have all experienced this, that we are living in a time of crisis, and we have a very difficult decade ahead of us, as Prime Minister said. At such a time of crisis, it is of particular importance that we serve national interests with every move, every decision we make. But it is very important for us to be able to recognise the mistakes made so far, to be able to correct them, and to be able to think in the long term, in order to guarantee security for the Hungarian people. In such a situation, it is very, very important for us to say that we do not support any steps that bring the Hungarian economy to its knees, right, there are currently debates about this, so short-term steps that make it impossible for the Hungarian economy to operate, LMP, Hungary's Green Party does not support it. At the same time, we must also say that the government has not taken any meaningful steps in order to create energy independence in recent cycles, or precisely to improve our situation in terms of vulnerability to Russia or to Russia, and we can even say that the past cycles have taken counter-steps. We also need to say very firmly that LMP does not support any action that, in the present situation, increases Hungary's vulnerability to energy supply, increases Hungary's vulnerability to Russia, and we do not support anything that poses an environmental, national security and economic risk to Hungarian people. Here in recent cycles we have had a lot of discussions on nuclear energy, in which we will obviously never agree; we have a very strong position that nuclear energy is not green, it is not cheap and it is not safe, isn't it, we have a debate with the government side, and we also have a debate with many opposition parties. We are consistent in this, but there is a specific project here, on which there are a lot of serious problems that can be identified and very serious contradictions on the part of the government. I think now, don't you, an election campaign is over, the election is over, that it's time to communicate these issues to the government side in such a way that they put the communication panels aside, and they speak frankly about these problems and the challenges behind them, and all the possible proposals for solutions that we might have, let's say, non-public documents in front of the government. It is very important to say what problems Paks II is facing, the construction of the new nuclear power plant. It can be established factually that in September it was found that the Russian partner was not fit to draw up plans according to Hungarian and EU standards, the National Atomic Energy Office found 500 problems of different weight in relation to the investment. To this day, you have no license, no permission to set up this project. There is no reassuring answer to fundamental questions such as earthquake security, earthquake security. But in recent months, we have all experienced shocking developments in the serious crisis and war conflict that we have seen in our neighbourhood. We have seen that the Russian army has launched an attack on Europe's largest nuclear power plant. We also found that the Chernobyl nuclear power plant was occupied, and the military movements there caused serious environmental problems, and it was also visible that a missile attack had hit a radioactive waste storage facility. Not only did we say it, and not only international organisations, but your former Commissioner Attila Aszodi, also said that the Russians violated all written and unwritten rules on nuclear energy, ignored international law, and said that Attila Aszodi, former Government Commissioner responsible for enlargement, is now morally unfit to complete the Paks enlargement. You can see that the Finnish Government has already resigned from such a project, and that your delegation to the European Parliament, the MEPs of Fidesz, have voted in favour of the proposal, the motion that is Paks II. recommended that treatment be discontinued. Here is the question of what this serious contradiction is. The Hungarian government wants to continue to go forward with Paks II, while the EP delegation of Fidesz has already made clear that this must be stopped. How do you appreciate Attila Aszodi's serious statements, with which we can agree, can only agree, I think, and in what way do you think that this kind of Paks expansion by the Russians will ensure Hungary's energy supply when we become dependent on Russian fuel? I hope that we will receive answers of a professional nature rather than party politics, because they do not owe them to us, but to Hungarian people, by answering these important and serious questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2022-05-10-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to Mr Süli's speech before the agenda is to be given by Minister János Süli. Here you go.
u2022-05-10-3	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We're going to pick up where we left off, because it's clear that your opinion is not to build Paks II, and ours is clearly to build it. In recent times, we believe that the energy situation in Hungary has not changed in this regard, and that the energy situation in Europe and the expected gas and oil sanctions also justify moving along this path, since there will be unforeseen consequences if we cannot build these two blocks. So for the moment, you were our guest, Pakson, you could see what it was like environmentally, but on the day of birds and trees, we will bring you again a book in which it is shown that the living things that surround the power plant, the living space is the most cultured, and the most environmentally friendly way to live there are plants and animals. So these are facts. It is also a fact that if we wanted to focus only on green energy in Hungary, the sun and wind, then on 25 January, the largest consumption ever measured in Hungary. This was 7396 megawatts at 5:00 p.m., with built-in renewable capacity, 3700 megawatts, available in Hungary, 100 megawatts were available in summa. So, if I'm comparing, we can actually express a barely measurable percentage of what the renewables were able to produce, while the nuclear power plant had a full 100 percent power output. Our exposure in Europe is one of the biggest average imports of over 30 percent, and if sanctions, natural gas and oil sanctions are completed, we will not even be able to bring it in from anywhere, so this is the only viable way ahead of us to build it. Mr Attila Aszódi, former Secretary of State, I don't even want to classify his opinion, he wasn't out in the field, I wasn't, the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mr Grossi was on the scene, we know from his report that the block wasn't attacked. He started it from the educational center next to it, he didn't start it, we didn't have a firefight there, which is 600 meters from the power plant. So in the press, we know that everyone is cosmetic, everyone says as they please, we listen to the opinion of the International Atomic Energy Agency, and we rely on the information of the international nuclear power management organisation. Based on this, cooperation in the nuclear sector has always been impeccable, the Ukrainian power plants, the 15 power plants, still operate largely with Russian fuel to this day, because they can't do anything else, manufacture or import American fuel, which is more expensive and of lower quality. US fuel is not an alternative to us at the moment, because we have increased the power of the block, increased its campaign length, so with a different kind of fuel. Fuel transport has been smooth these days, with two flights to Hungary, but the same is true in Slovakia, so nuclear cooperation has never been affected by any serious conflict, of course, until the moment. We hope that we can continue to build, of course we must pay attention to sanctions every day. The winning proposals include American entrepreneur GE, French Alstom, French control technology, German Siemens company. So these companies have also stated that they want to work in any way as part of the project, and Rosatom is building not only in Hungary, but also in Turkey four power plants in Egypt, also in Bangladesh. In Finland, it was a completely different situation, it was an investment in a private investment, there the associated members stopped, it was also a private decision, the majority owner, who was Rosatom, 34 percent not involved in this decision. So it wasn't the Finnish Parliament that made the decision, it was the investors. But it's also simple because there after 13 years of slipping, which is a French block, the 1650 megawatt block in Olkiluoto, gives them an opportunity to replace the missing electricity. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[9.20]]
u2022-05-10-4	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Tamás Mellar has also applied to speak before the agenda in the Group of Dialogue. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I was surprised to hear Minister János Süli's announcement that the fuel was transported here by plane. As far as I know, there is a war in Ukraine, in the neighbouring country. I wonder what could have happened, or what could have happened, if this plane had been shot down, and what would that have had to do with it? I don't know much about it, but it's worth talking about and identifying the risks, because it's our skin. As for my topic: a few days ago, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office published that the gross average salary in Hungary was HUF 546 thousand in February. It's a fantastically beautiful and very big number, there's only one flaw, it's not true that it doesn't cover reality. I would be willing to bet a large amount of money here with anyone in this room that if we randomly selected a thousand people, a thousand workers, and asked them whether their earnings were related to the HUF 546,000, they would reach this or not, I'm sure 500 of these thousand wouldn't say that they would make this much, but I think that even a hundred people wouldn't say that much. The KSH felt about this, so it changed this number quickly and said that if extraordinary payments were deducted from this, it would be only HUF 445,000, and that would be the gross earnings in February. Compared to this, if we calculate that KSH is not counting from the entire sample, but from a sample containing only the employment sites above five people, and this methodically overestimates this value for the last time GKI showed this, when it calculated this in the NAV database, there is about 20 percent difference, well, if we calculate this, we are now at HUF 370 thousand. And if you count net of this, you get about 260,000 forints. Well, this 260 thousand forints isn't even half of the 546,000 forints that we've been talking about. What I would like to ask you, my dear fidesz hontas, is that after such a great victory, such a historic victory that you have achieved in the last election, would it not be time for you to put the national statistical service in order to try to produce data that is on a thank-you basis with reality. I think we all deserve that. In the first step, we could also consider, for example, that we would elect the President of the KSH to have an election committee in which a third of the people would be delegated by the governing party, one third by the opposition and one third by professional organisations. The same committee could also set up a supervisory board which would continue to examine the work of the Statistical Office and submit an annual report. By the way, I report that there are such practices in the management of the statistical office west of Lajta. I'm asking you, you couldn't possibly introduce this to us. I know the answer: it can't be. It couldn't be, because here in Hungary, the ABBA band has a big hit of everything, i.e. that the winner takes everything. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that sometimes we should also face reality, because, as Peter Esterházy said, it is very, very difficult, extremely difficult to lie without knowing the truth. In the face of the economic crisis, reality is knocking on the door. So it would be good for you to get to know the real facts, and not only to rely on data that is very good in the election campaign, but certainly not to make responsible decisions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-05-10-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to Mr Orbán's speech before the agenda will be given by Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-05-10-7	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We have heard an intellectually rather wild speech from you. If I may, I would first respond to your comment on the supply of fuel. You were talking about how it could have happened that you were shot because the plane came through Ukraine. Congressman, you shouldn't be talking nonsense, because this couldn't have happened. The fuel came to Hungary not through Ukraine, but through Poland and Slovakia. I suggest that before you say, or even raise, dangerous things in public here in this country, you should be informed. Our colleagues, Minister, Secretary of State, the publicity of the press and the experts are all at your disposal. The Dialogue faction has an expert framework, it can also be translated into this. So I think the terms are right. It's not worth it to have each other's time here early in the morning. I'm sorry for saying that with bullshit and bullshit. The other thing is, there's nothing new under the sun. We have spent the last four years in your various speeches playing sport by scolding your former workplaces, and you seem to want to continue this sport in this parliamentary term. It has not only done so with regard to KSH, but also with regard to its former workplaces. You speak to your colleagues who worked in the office when you were in charge of that office, and interestingly, you did not see any problems with their performance at the time. The other part is that these data, these methodologies, and you know this very well are not new methodologies, and the data is not only Hungarian data, but also European data. So that's what the methodologies are like. Methodological debate can undoubtedly be continued, but we have been using the same methodology for several decades. So to compare what the average wage looked like at the time of your allies' government performance, what unemployment looked like, and what the average wage, the median wage, and what unemployment looked like in the past 12 years of our government, this methodology is perfectly suitable for comparing these two figures. So when you suggest that we change the methodology, all I can think about is that we try to make things go away in hindsight, in case the 2002-2010 period, the government period of your allies, appears in a better light. You will not be able to achieve this goal, and I do not recommend that you go in this direction. On 3 April, voters did not propose to the left-wing opposition to continue this direction. The second is that these methodologies and these data are all validated by Eurostat, because we also need a European comparison. So if you have a problem with this context, then I suggest you go out to the European capitals and have these conversations with the head of the organisation called Eurostat, disguised as professional, but in fact political. If I may, Congressman, if I interpret your speech correctly, then you have actually signed up for the position of President of the HCSO. We have been thinking here with Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary and colleagues, and we have come to the conclusion that, unfortunately, I can tell you, Member, that the Fidesz-KDNP government will not support you for the position of President of the HCSO. We are looking for an economist who is not disturbed by the facts, but who respects them. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-10-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament, has applied for a speech before the agenda from the Group of our countries. Here you go, Madam Vice President. You have the floor. [[9.30]]
u2022-05-10-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 3 April, the voters decided that there was a third way to Parliament and they decided that there was also a need for a Gyurcsány-free opposition, represented exclusively by the Hungarian Movement. Balliberians are still apparently unable to decide whether to be boys or girls to go out or go in, but in contrast, the Hungarian Movement is political with clear principles: we support any proposal that is in the interest of the Hungarian nation, but we face everything that harms the Hungarians. We came here to work, to serve our country. However, if anyone, we would have reason to complain about the equal opportunities of the election campaign, for example, I cannot publish this speech on my Facebook page, even though other Members can broadcast it live. Do you know why I can't do that? Because I have an elected Member of Parliament, a faction leader, László Toroczkai, whose portrait, name or voice cannot be displayed on Facebook, otherwise my page will be erased, practically without justification. What does a responsible Hungarian government do with this situation? A huge multi-company brutally intervenes in Hungarian elections, in Hungarian public life, and you stand by and watch this. And what does that so, but so democratic opposition do? He's looking at it with his hands in his arms. The Hungarian Movement was and remains the party most censored in the long term, but it is not the voices of the complaint that they will hear from us in the National Assembly. But not only does the government not act in international organizations on this situation, but Fidesz has not even been willing to publish the advertisements paid by our country for money in the election campaign. In fact, they went so far as to threaten the flyer companies that would have undertaken to send the publications of the Hungarian Movement to people's mailboxes. In such a situation, the balliberal array says that we're collaborating with the Fides, of course, the facts never bothered them. In addition, the behaviour of the public opinion researchers, who have practically lied for the past year and a half or two, because each of them, interestingly below the parliamentary entry threshold, measured the support of the Hungarian Movement by undermeasurement beyond the margin of error. However, we are not licking our wounds, we presented the first proposals on the day of the inaugural session, and, yes, what is expected of the Hungarian Movement in Parliament is that we will be tilting taboos. We're gonna do taboos because we're not afraid to tell the truth. We are not afraid to say that WHO is preparing a dictatorship with the introduction of compulsory vaccination [[Defiance in the ranks of Momentum and Dialogue.]] And we are not afraid to say that the Hungarian government, if it accepts this, will betray the freedom of its own nation. The Covid dictatorship must end not only in Hungary but throughout the world. We are not afraid to say that a political-ideological assassination is taking place in the West against the white man's civilization, against which our country will act. After 12 years of two-thirds Fidesz government, the situation is that György Budaházy is in prison and Ferenc Gyurcsány is in a villa in Buda, and continues to organize the opposition. We're not afraid to say that you two have been colluding behind the scenes for 30 years. As President of the Republic, János Áder violated, in an unprecedented manner, a parliamentary party and its 330,000 voters, because more than 330,000 people empowered us to continue the work that we started outside the parliament, to represent the programme that we announced, and that is to be expected of us. Even if they try to crush us with the globalists, this is just the beginning of the life of our homeland Movement. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-10-10	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The vice-president's statement before the agenda will be answered by Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-11	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice President, Dear Parliament, The path you're on isn't new, and there are more failures than success. You must know that in 2005 the MIÉP, the Party of Hungarian Truth and Life, and Jobbik formed an election alliance under the name of Third Way, reached 2.2 percent in the 2006 elections with this program. The grievances you have mentioned are partly related to the elections. I listened to the Parliament's decision, I saw that the National Election Committee's report was accepted by the Parliament, that the remedies were available, that all the remedies could be used, that these remedies were closed, and that there was no justification for the grievances you said. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] I agree with that, and the government will do everything in its power to prevent freedom of opinion from being restricted by international media empires and international multi-businesses, but the government has little influence on this, and you obviously know it. [[Dóra Dúró: That's not true either!]] International organisations cannot introduce any mandatory vaccinations in Hungary, only Hungarian decision-makers can introduce mandatory vaccinations and there is no compulsory vaccination in Hungary. So the danger you're talking about is not a realistic threat, it's not a real threat. The comparison between Budaházy and Gyurcsány may be justified. [[Defiance in the ranks of DK, Momentum and Dialogue.]] However, he remembers that both György Budaházy and Ferenc Gyurcsány were prosecuted, which ended with an indictment of Budaházy and, in the case of Gyurcsány, the termination of the investigation. [[Dóra Dúró: Shame!]] What I do not consider irrelevant is that in the case of Budaházy the court has already ruled, and not only in his case, but in the case of his partner, a judgment of first instance, not final. So for now, that's all we know about any criminal liability that might arise in the Budaházy case. So it is very important that in this case we see clearly what the court determines. I think it's in everyone's best interest for the court to stop investigating criminal liability. If the court has completed its investigation of criminal liability [[Dóra Dúró: After 15 years!]] then we will also be in a position to know the legal facts, the legally important and relevant facts. [[The Foreman of Novak: Ten more years!]] Madam Vice President, In the cases you have spoken about, or in your comments, I have considered a very important element from the government's point of view, which is that you will always support the decisions and proposals that serve the interests of the nation. I continue to encourage you to do this, and I ask that you always support decisions supported not only by the government, but by a large majority of voters, the government's proposals. However, I would like to state one thing, and I must refer it back to that particular Third Way and its election programme in 2006. The government represents zero tolerance against anti-Semitism and racism. So any manifestation that marked their 2006 programme is not acceptable to the government today. This is a red line, if you cross that line, you can't count on the government's support, but you can rely specifically on the government's ban, the government's opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-10-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Imre Komjathi of the MSZP Group has applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the Hungarian Parliament, I speak in the interest of the working Hungarian people. In recent weeks, issues in which the government's strategic partners treat Hungarian workers rather cruelly or brutally. [[9.40]] Perhaps, because a right-wing government is on the side of capital, capitalists, but we left-wing, socialists are on the side of employees. The mass layoffs at Tungsram can destroy thousands of families, and the government is either inactive or at least not trying to help the lives of the 1600 workers to be laid off. In the case of Dunaújváros, they spread their arms. In the case of Mako, they were silently concerned with the violations of Hungarian workers, just as they did not want to defend the rights of the trade union in the car factory in Esztergom against their capital partners. But these aren't unique cases one after another, but this is what the labor code has become during the 12 years of Fidesz. The capitalist, the multi, is slowly more supportive than the Hungarian employee. The Fidesz government serves the capitalists, the multinationals, and the Hungarian workers are served, that is what the slave law is all about, and that is what the violation of the right to strike is all about. It says kanizsaujsag.hu:. It was one of the few officially confirmed news in February, when it turned out that the management of the company had unilaterally changed the points of the collective agreement that were more favourable to the application of the Labour Code in the event of dismissals. It was then that the protection of married couples ceased, but the rules on severance pay and termination periods also changed. They say that according to sleepbooks, such an amendment is a prelude to mass layoffs. At the end of March, the general assembly of the city also wanted to put the subject on the agenda, but this was the occasion when the mayor of Fideszes László Balogh, after welcoming those who appeared, announced that he would rather leave with the rest of the opposition Fidesz faction. They didn't even attend the meeting, but they didn't have much to wait for the usual Balogh chair comment on Facebook. In this he mentioned the agenda on Tungsram, in which he expressed his disapproval because the opposition majority intervened in the lives of a private company. He did not care much about the fact that more than a thousand people are at stake, and not those who believe that it is important to talk about it, want to interfere in the internal affairs of a company. László Balogh went so far as not to suggest it, it's bullshit. So far, the quote. Is it always private business at a time like this? When will the Hungarian government finally take the side of Hungarian workers, the working people? They hid the closure of the factory gates and the firing of hundreds of Hungarian workers until the elections, but then a week after the elections, we have to act? I immediately contacted the local union leaders. The left is also in Nagykanizsa and is doing everything in Újpesten to help hundreds of people fired by the government partner. The fact that many couples and even their children work in the factory also makes it difficult. If they're out of work, they can't even help each other because there's nothing left. In addition, the average age of workers in the factory is over 50 years old. It's the age group they don't really rush into the labour market. 1600 Hungarian families are waiting for the government to speak, making a meaningful move to protect Hungarian workers. That is why I have brought this matter to the Hungarian Parliament, and we need to talk about the situation here too. The fact is that as politicians of Nagykanizsa, Újpest socialists and other opposition parties do, we will do everything in the interests of Hungarian workers. It is time for you to understand that you must take the side of the workers. The strategic agreements lack exactly what is important: the protection of Hungarian workers. What guarantee does the government ask for in the interests of the workers, and what guarantee does their strategic partner offer? It is legitimate to expect billions of forints in exchange for tax-paying support to ensure that the safety of labour and labour law is reserved for workers. Taking it from Radnóti, you see a factory on the binoculars and fields, and I see a worker shaking for his business. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Please help the Hungarian workers, or at least stop hurting them! Thank you for the floor.
u2022-05-10-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the speaker's speech will be Mr Sándor Bodó, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Congressman! To the point that the Government of Hungary is on the side of workers, I think that now, at the time of the elections, a decisive majority has declared that it is. But, of course, on an important issue such as employment, let us look at the details, because such loudspeakers, which have been said, I think that they are not driving us towards the solution, but they are exciting emotions. Since 2010, there has obviously been an economic policy based on a set of civil values, and part of it is quite clear that we do not believe in the aid-based system, economic policy, but in job creation, tax reduction, investment, support for families. Obviously, the money comes from work, it's very clear. Taxes are low, I think we all see that, we see that, incomes are increasing. Let us also consider a significant increase in the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage this year. Obviously, people buy from this income, it's worth a job. But we also have to say numbers, because I think that's a fair answer. 4.7 million people work in Hungary, so many have never worked since the change of regime. Before they say that this is the result of some kind of devious logic of calculation, I can now confirm that this method is correct throughout the European Union system, so there is no hocus pocus in it, as may have been mentioned earlier. 3.6 unemployment rate, 74 percent employment rate, i.e. these indicators are clearly positive. Of course, there has always been, and there will always be, a situation in life when some uncertainty or crisis arises in the life of a company. There are several reasons for this. Of course, we do not necessarily have to discuss this here, within the walls of the House, but we still need to see what employment policy, what price policy, what product investments a company is planning to pursue. As a result, of course, there is great respect for Tungsram, as a company with very serious traditions and generations grew up there, indeed, as you say, engineers and professionals have created permanent ones, but they may have to rethink production a little bit, as purchasing habits probably have not changed, we continue to buy electricity burners, but we may have to buy a different quality at a different price. So, obviously, this will have to be reviewed in a longer analysis. What is our job in this situation? Obviously, our employees in employment have indicated these announcements, which the company has already made in part, i.e. that by the end of this year it is planning a significant downsizing. In this situation, there is a mandatory procedure that our colleagues, of course, immediately launched. In this context, the employees of the employment department are present at every workplace where the announcement is made, and they can help with legal advice and job placement. Of course, this is not enough, and we obviously need to move on in this area, so the negotiations with the representatives of the trade union in each of the settlements have started, and we have also discussed with the president of the League Trade Union, the Heads of State Secretariat, in the last few days, so there is cooperation in this area. In addition, as a new player, but I believe that the management and staff of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry will be present in this process as an effective actor, because we need to see that skilled labour is needed in the labour market, and therefore members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, these member companies are already reporting that these employees would obviously be taken over in a given situation. Of course, it always comes to mind what the procedure is, how and how it can be done, and what you didn't ask, but it would have been a very logical professional question as to how a company could prevent this situation. The prevention of this must start somewhere along the lines of the growing need and the need for internal training that a company must apply when there is no problem. When there's trouble, it's a lot harder to cure. There is government support for this, as well as for these workers to be employed later, as we have already been able to help more than 40,000 workers under the Labour Support programme. This process has therefore started, our colleagues are present, of course we must have joint attention in these workplaces, and the Government of Hungary is committed to a work-based society and will also help the workers of Tungsram. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.50]]
u2022-05-10-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Márton Tompos, Member of the Momentum Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, We arrived at the 76th day of the Russian-Ukrainian war today. Seventy-six days ago, Russia invaded our neighbor Ukraine. And now the government is asking this House to support the amendment of the basic law so that it can react quickly in special situations as well. Correct me if I am wrong, but I think that a rapid reaction is necessary in situations such as a humanitarian crisis, if an operation is launched against Hungary, be it military, IT or information. In light of this, I must admit that I am incomprehensible to this request, and I have five compelling reasons to do so; allow me to share it with you. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: You're losing your role.]] February 3rd, PestiFolks: standing next to Ukraine is treason. On February 21st, on Pesti TV, God rest his soul! The guest explained that there is no Ukrainian people and culture, the Ukrainian language is a Russian dialect. M1 News a day later about Vladimir Putin's recognition of the two separatist republics - I quote: "The locals hope that life will return to normal in the area of no one's land. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On the day of the outbreak of the war, an expert on the public news broadcast of the Ukrainian President Zelensky's call for arms, said: "This is the last madness Hitler committed in the end days of the war. And, finally, fifth: The numbers that have been doing a joint show with Pesti TV Data Facebook page has been spreading conspiracy theories about the coronavirus, the European Union and the latest Ukrainian-Russian war; they are talking about genocide in the hills, burning people alive, crucifixing, and it could still be classified. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, These pages are under your control. They belong to your moonyard. [[Uproar, interrogation from the pro-government ranks: You're wrong!]] And these pages spread Russian war propaganda. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] These sites know, the signs indicate that there is a Russian disinformation operation in Hungary at the moment. It's nothing new, the Russians do it all over Europe and the whole world, and there's a lot of places that do it. What is new, and what is special, is that in Hungary, unlike European countries with a better fate than us, these conspiracy theories are spread not in Facebook panties and on different hidden pages that no one can read, but in the mainstream of pro-government media. This is the difference, i.e. this is the certain difference that you are not counting on, and this means that Russian propaganda is winning in Hungary. Amazing! [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government ranks.]] It's amazing, isn't it? Russian propaganda is winning, and in this context, it is incomprehensible to me that you ask for permission to react quickly when you have not acted against Russian propaganda in your own media for years, nowhere. It's going, it's got to be denied every day. You know, if you want, let's turn that question around. They say that there must be peace in Hungary, that we should not get involved in this war, the most important thing for Hungary and the Hungarians in Transcarpathia is that Hungary should stay out of this war. We agree, there is no debate between us. [[Uproar, interrogations from the pro-government ranks, among them: Then why send weapons?]] May there be peace, but no emergency. You're also saying now that we don't send guns. It's okay. You know, it's okay, you take responsibility for this against NATO partners, we have nothing to add to this, but at least do so by cleaning out Russian propaganda in your own media, because at this moment it's unsuitable. Tell me already that when the war in Ukraine ends, and it ends, Ukraine will survive, and hopefully Ukraine will be able to be rebuilt, then you will have to sit down with Ukrainian partners; and when you ask what the Transcarpathian anti-Hungarian march was, what were those Nazi slogans, what were those sayings, the acts, the laws that were directed against the Hungarian minority, and what position will you be in, while in your hinterland you are spreading that Volodimir Zelensky is a drug billionaire, that he is conducting genocide in Ukraine, who is a Nazi state? How will this be accomplished? Tell me, will you? Probably not, but, you know, when the war is over, diplomacy will have the lead again, and diplomacy has a great deal of value in gestures. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm asking you to make a gesture and clean out your media, be one of the first tasks of the new government. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum and Dialogue. Intercoms from the pro-government ranks, including, "We've won another clown."]]
u2022-05-10-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the speaker's speech before the agenda is from Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You are a new formation in the Hungarian Parliament, so first of all allow me to draw your attention to an important fact. The house where we now hold this meeting is the Hungarian Parliament, not the Media Authority. This is an important difference; if you have a type of question that belongs to the Media Authority, you should turn there, and here we should take ourselves seriously and stress that we are in the Parliament after all. If I understand correctly, I have tried very hard to listen, if I understand your speech correctly, then you were talking about some kind of foreign interests, and perhaps the title of your speech is something like that. Again, I would like to suggest that you are a new formation in the Hungarian Parliament and, of course, it is true that the Gyurcsány Party is a youth class, and it is also true that the beautiful SZDSZ, who are on the trail of their predecessors, are in all things alike; I note that the beautiful SZDSZ is in the trash of the Hungarian political history, where it belongs, and do not rule out that you may be following them, but in any case at present, after the new formation of Momentum in Parliament, I have the pleasure to introduce you to your party. As regards foreign interests, let me draw your attention to the fact that you supported a Romanian party against the Hungarian elections in Romania. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right! It's outrageous!]] What are we talking about, honourable Member? ! I have the honour to draw your attention to the fact that in the election in Slovakia a Slovak party was supported against the Hungarian party. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you sent a telegram in Romanian to the Hungarian mayor elected in Tarosvásárhely in Transylvania. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] Foreign interests, honourable Member, that is what you have done, because you are obviously in Brussels and there and there, so if you are talking about representing foreign interests, I strongly suggest that you examine your party. But let's come home for a second. Let me quote your party again. András Fekete-Győr, 2017: The people need a clear, tangible alternative, not a slop-like mix. I'm not saying the slop-like, but your group leader, and you've been involved in this. Tamás Soproni, your partner in the party, may be very fond of Gundel pancakes, goulash soup and pumpkin soup separately, but if you mix them together, it's slop. You were involved in this. We don't want to lump ourselves in. Tamás Soproni, your party partner, said again. I got it, I got it. And one more quote:, Momentum would spit in the face if it came to a coalition with Jobbik and MSZP, and András Fekete-Győr, 2017, Józsefváros. I respectfully ask how you've managed to wash since then. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As far as the war is concerned, it is exactly the same as on any other subject: you do not, by chance, represent the interests of Hungary. It was clear about the war, and it is still the position of the Hungarian government and the position of the governing parties: we must stay out of this war, we will not send soldiers or weapons here, unlike you, who would bring Hungary into this war without further ado. Again, I quote your partner, Katalin Cseh: András Fekete-Győr wrote a publication on 1 February about the fact that this might not be a bad idea that the war is being fought with weapons, and, by now, Viktor Orbán is alone in opposition to this, that I think there is hardly a country who says that in the whole European Union, and there is certainly no country in the region. The sentence is a little shaky, and I'd be absolved of further subpoenas. But the point is, and it tells us exactly that you don't represent the interests of Hungary by chance, but look at what others do, adjust to others, and represent the interests of others. [[10.00]] The government's position is that we do not go into war, we do not send weapons and soldiers, and we have a red line on sanctions for oil and gas, and contrary to that, I say once again, so your position is contrary to the Hungarian interest. Remember, there was a choice before that, you had a captain. You were in line behind him, and the captain was kind enough to say that he would send soldiers and weapons, and that's what Katalin Cseh and András Fekete-Győr, your party mates, said. The captain also said that he would support sanctions that would hurt Hungary; we oppose that. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Please try to represent the Hungarian interest. They are here in Parliament, they will have the opportunity, and I wish you good luck. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-10-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Brenner Koloman, former Vice-President, spoke before the agenda for the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-10-21	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, I have given an address to my speech before the agenda on urgent matters, because in days' time the next Fidesz government, led by Orbán, will be formed, and I would like to draw the attention of this House to two extremely urgent matters which, at the beginning of the current, extremely serious social and economic crisis, I believe, is of paramount importance to the well-being and freedom of Hungarian citizens. One of them is that Viktor Orbán and Fidesz should finally recover the European Union funds due to Hungarian citizens. There is a great and simple way to obtain the resources that are now being withdrawn from Hungarian citizens because of the procedure under Article 7. There is an extremely simple way to do this: the Fidesz, building up a one-party overpower, restore the rule of law and balanced media relations, let the opposition representatives in, if I say in the current situation that in proportion to the fact that this is not a great gentleman's gesture to the public media; the public media that all of us, out of 130 billion forints of taxpayers' money, are also the almost two million voters who voted for the opposition list. Restore the rule of law. The rule of law does not mean that it is some kind of invention in Brussels, but that the rule of law means that in Hungary a private property cannot be taken as a fidesz potentate. The rule of law is one of the most fundamental European conservative values, which Jobbik, the only right centre Christian social party in the opposition, will always stand up to. [[Defiance. Bence Rétvári: Wow!]] This is a question on which you can smile, of course, because I can see that the names of the founding fathers of the European Union, Konrad Adenauer, De Gasperi and Schuman are very far from you, if you have heard these names from the now laughing rear-row fidesz Members. They were as Christian-social politicians as we were and believed in a social market economy, not in a state capitalist arrangement where the Hungarian state power is occupied by a party as in the communist one-party period. Restore the rule of fair law, let the Hungarian citizens receive the resources they deserve! Another issue which, in response to Minister for Foreign Affairs Szijjártó yesterday, my colleague, László Lukács, has already spoken about is the need to immediately start building our country's energy security step by step. As we stated yesterday, it is quite clear that Jobbik will not support any sanctions that threaten the livelihood and heating of Hungarian citizens, because if there is a party in our country, who knows precisely that in a small settlement in a crumbling house, the gas price that, say, such a sanction could cause in our country, can not be paid is us. Don't get me wrong, I think that this is a very clear position, but I also think that in the last 12 years, as you said in this House today, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Group Leader, you have done a great deal to make our country one-sidedly dependent on Russian gas and oil supplies, rather than, for example, adopting the proposal that I will be re-submitting in order to re-establish wind power plants in our country, because your 2011 amendment made this impossible. I was a candidate in the Sopron region, and we always know where the wind blows: from the northwest direction and all the time, and three meters across the Austrian border there are a lot of windmills, windmills, not by accident. We know that the important thing for us is to start looking for alternative energy sources. Moreover, Jobbik, as my fellow Member Zoltán Balczó has always said, is not anti-nuclear, and we even think that it is worth reviewing Paks II because of the current global and European security policy aspects, but, for example, the extension of Block I should be considered with modern technology, as well as the French proposals on smaller nuclear power plants. To sum up, therefore, there are very urgent things for our country to finally provide Hungarian citizens with what they deserve, prosperity and freedom in this very difficult situation. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-05-10-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-05-10-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Twenty-nine out of zero. You've set up 29 seats as MPs, and you've won zero places. You are the only parliamentary party, honourable Member, that has not been able to win individual victory in any district. There are probably reasons for this which can be traced back to their own party. You can point out here that Jobbik lost in the elections because of public media, but that is zero out of 29, honourable Member, that can only be blamed on themselves. When the autumn speech of Ferenc Gyurcsány was given in 2006, when your fellow parties were protesting against Ferenc Gyurcsány in 2006, did you also protest? Did you protest against Ferenc Gyurcsány in 2006 that he deceived people, that he destroyed the country, that he admitted to the entire election campaign in Autumn that he lied about falsifying the budget numbers? Were you with the protesters at the time? He was probably there. Now he's not responding to anything, he seems to be hiding what was his point of view, because today it's embarrassing. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I was deputy dean...]] Because they are now sitting behind Ferenc Gyurcsány, at an arm's length distance from each other, honourable Member, those who protested against Ferenc Gyurcsány in 2006. Maybe that's the reason for 29:0. You can say that there is no democracy in Hungary, you can say that the government should intervene in media relations, which you demanded that Jobbik have a larger media platform, but perhaps you, who were formed in 2006 against Ferenc Gyurcsány as a party, should not have campaigned in hand with Ferenc Gyurcsány, and then their result might not have been 29:0 at the end. They can blame others, blame others, blame them on others, this has clearly brought about enormous uprisings within their own party, and they have received very big criticisms of their own leadership, of course, this has happened back and forth, but perhaps this is a lesson. It is probably too late for you, because Jobbik has fallen from 26 to 10 people, and this number will probably not increase, but for later parties who face their own principles in order to get a little closer to power, it will be worth looking back at Jobbik's policy in the area of 2022 that Hungarians do not like politicians who operate on their own backbones. As far as EU funds are concerned, honourable Member, the Hungarian people made a clear decision in the referendum, about three and a half million people refuse to allow small children to have LGBT propaganda in kindergartens and schools. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: This is not about LGBT, my friend. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] From now on, this is not only the position of the Hungarian government, but also the position of the Hungarian people, Hungary's position. This many people have never voted in the same direction since the change of regime, and never had such social support for a single question put to a referendum. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: What does it have to do with EU funds? It has nothing to do with EU funds!]] including NATO membership, EU membership, refusal of compulsory resettlement quotas. This position must be respected by you, no matter how much you have opposed it, and it must be respected in Brussels that you do not hold back the resources that we have due, honourable Member. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Why are you holding him back? That's a lie!]] Whatever electoral regime you are talking about, honourable Member, there is no electoral system in the world where, with such an election result, 3 million 60,000 votes on the list of Fidesz-KDNP, Fidesz-KDNP would not have obtained a large majority in Parliament; there is no other one. [[10.10]] You were talking about rule of law: show a single legal system, an election system, where this would not have been a great victory. In an Anglo-Saxon-type system based on individual districts, we would have had an even bigger majority, then there would have been a four-fifth majority of Fidesz-KDNP and not two-thirds. But where it wouldn't have resulted in a majority, it wouldn't have found one. Honourable Congressman, You have taken the logic from the left against Hungarian businesses, Hungarian companies. When it comes to Hungarian companies, you talk about corruption when it comes to multinationals, and you talk about development, development and modern technologies. Honourable Congressman, You are talking about energy security, but in the meantime your MEP is applauding the sanctions proposals in Brussels that would completely crush the Hungarian economy, which would hit the Hungarian economy with a nuclear bomb; you are talking about energy security, while your own politicians would completely crush the energy foundations of the Hungarian economy. We have a pipeline built in six neighbouring countries from the seven neighbouring countries, and it is not up to us that there are no developments in the neighbouring countries that could bring more capacity to Hungary. But in closing, honourable Member, you have given your own address on our urgent matters. The most pressing issue of Jobbik right now is to clarify exactly what your party's position is regarding the rape at their party event. Because you have the same silence on this issue. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] as they listened to Henrik Havas in the case of Peter Gothár, Zsolt Gréczy or László Donáth. That would be the real urgency for the Jobbik faction today. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-10-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa has applied for a speech from the KDNP Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, when the Fidesz-KDNP government was established, it was clearly stated that the principles of directing the government's economic policy were implemented. In addition to strategic national property, we have set the goal of reducing taxes and increasing employment; we have said that everyone who can and wants to work in Hungary should not automatically receive any kind of aid. This is why we have managed to create a million new jobs together with Hungarian businesses. That is why we must reject the idea of a left-wing basic income, which is the idea of taking money from the one who works and giving it to the one who doesn't want it. We are in agreement with our Fundamental Law, which says: "We believe that the strength of the community and the honor of all people is based on the performance of work, of the human spirit. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In addition to the policy of a work-based society, respect for the elderly is also central, and Fidesz-KDNP has been doing its best to express this with concrete measures since 2010. In 2010, when we made an alliance with pensioners, we set ourselves the goal of maintaining the purchasing value of pensions on an ongoing basis, as opposed to the policies of the former left-wing government that harm older people. The increase in pensions and pension-like benefits follows inflation, so the amount of benefits, together with the current increases, has increased by 59 percent nominally over the last 12 years and 10 percent in purchasing value. Older people could also benefit from the growing performance of the economy, remember that from 2017 the economy and the country's performance also allowed the payment of pension premium and one-off benefits. In the past year and a half, we have also paid attention to those who have carried and built Hungary on their backs for decades, as the first measures included health and economic protection for the elderly. Ladies and gentlemen, The left is constantly concerned about pensioners at word level, and their votes show less commitment. Moreover, it often seems to me that the former socialist-liberal government, under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, has decided on a number of measures that are a major blow to the elderly. In 2009, you took a month's pension from 2.2 million people, and despite this, the real value of pensions was reduced. Under the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, the purchasing power of pensions decreased by more than 10 percent between 2005 and 2010. I could also mention the statements made by Péter Márki-Zay, the former savior of the left, in which he considers the return of the 13th month pension and the policy of reducing the rent to be foolish and flawed. In 2021, we began to pay off historical debts to pensioners: we started to rebuild the 13th month pension taken by the Gyurcsányek, which in February 2022 had already been fully paid to the elderly. The result of the 3 April 2022 election is clear and clear: the Fidesz-KDNP has been given the mandate of voters again, so the elderly can continue to count on Fidesz-KDNP. At the same time, we can see what the situation is like in the world around us, because migration is present, we have not yet fully recovered from a pandemic, dark clouds are gathering on the skies of the European economy, inflation is high all over the world, an energy crisis is unfolding, and a war is happening next door. Nevertheless, we keep our promise in 2010: we are constantly raising pensions. In January, the pension increase was 5 percent, followed by the 13th month pension payment. Because of the many uncertainties and inflation, the government will increase pensions by 3.9 percent from 1 July. The increase shall also apply retroactively to this year. The financial security of the elderly is also strengthened by the reduction of the costs, the maintenance of the food price stop and the maintenance of the petrol stop. We have kept and kept our promise to our elderly compatriots, maintained the purchasing value of pensions, and even returned the 13th month pension that the left-wing government took from them. Thanks to the elderly. Our grandparents' generation can still count on Fidesz-KDNP, count on us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-10-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, who does not speak in his former place, but in the place of the Prime Minister's State Secretarys. I have indicated this to our technical colleagues. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'll speak where I can speak, Mr. President. Thank you very much for raising this important issue here in Parliament, as 12 years of family-friendly governance have been taking place in Hungary since 2010, which means that, in addition to helping young people start their lives and supporting families with children, it is important to support and appreciate the elderly for all of us. We have done this work before, and with the support of the Hungarian people we will continue to do so in the future, as we were also authorised to do so on 3 April. This is also important to us because it is our duty to honor the elderly, because what we have, what surrounds us, we have it from them, we owe it to their work. We have been able to build on this fund in recent years and we can build in the coming period, so it is important to protect them, support them, appreciate them and guarantee the safety of all of them. The Hungarian people have experienced that the civil government appreciates the elderly, because, as you said, in 2010, we made an alliance with the elderly, so that while there is a national government in Hungary, we preserve the purchasing value of pensions. [[Gergely Harvesto: Did you manage?]] I can inform the Honourable Parliament and the doubting opposition representatives that we have succeeded, because we have not only maintained the value of our pensions, but we have also been able to increase it by 10 percent. In addition, in the last five years, we have been able to pay our senior compatriots nearly HUF 900 billion extra in addition to the Erzsébet voucher and the return voucher. It is also important for us that older people benefit from the good performance of the economy, which is why we were able to pay the old people a pension premium in 2017,. 18 and 19 and even pay the largest pension premium of all time in November 2021 to 2.4 million older people. This affected not only people receiving pension benefits but also people receiving pension benefits. In addition to giving back their personal income tax paid to families raising children in 2021, and from 1 January this year, those under the age of 25 will benefit from a personal income tax exemption, as has been said, in February 2022 we returned the 13th month pension to the elderly, which was taken from them by the former government. This was received not only in the old-age pension, but also in pension-like contributions and benefits. We all remember that there was not always such an old-fashioned government in Hungary, because before 2010, during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, as you said, Congressman, they did not keep it, but reduced the purchasing value of pensions, they did not give it to pensioners, they took it away, they took the 13th month pension from them overnight. [[10.20]] And in addition, in contrast to the promise they all remember, they said slowly that there would be no gas price increase, but the cost of the overhead was tripled by the price of gas and double the price of electricity, thus putting the elderly in a completely vulnerable position by 2010. Indeed, in December, the government and Parliament decided not to raise pensions by 3 percent, but by 5 percent, as a result of the increasing inflation due to the energy crisis in Europe. Also due to the energy crisis in Europe and the war in our neighbourhood, we have now decided at the end of April that, due to increasing inflation, the elderly will receive another 3.9 percent pension supplement. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] You'll get this in July, back in January, in one amount. In addition, we will also correct the amount of the 13th month pension, and you will also receive this until 1 January. This affects more than 2.4 million people, and in 2022 the budget represents HUF 184 billion in extra support. What I can tell you, as well as what I have said, is that we really appreciate the elderly, and that old people can still count on us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-10-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Fidesz Group, Mr János Halász applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ukraine has been at war since February 24th. The position of Fidesz has been clear from the outset: we condemn Russia's aggression; we stand by Ukraine's territorial integrity and want to preserve Hungary's peace and security. On 3 April this position was supported by the overwhelming majority of Hungarian voters. It is clear that the Hungarians are in favour of peace. We do not want to fight side by side with one or another of the warring parties, but we want every step we take to ensure that there is an immediate ceasefire as soon as possible and that peace talks begin as soon as possible. Hungary must stay out of this war. Therefore, we continue not to send weapons to Ukraine, nor do we allow shipments of weapons in Hungary. Anyone carrying a gun will bring trouble on his own head, especially if he is a neighbor of the war country, especially if there are tens of thousands of Hungarians living in this neighbouring country. But we will help all those in trouble, those fleeing the war to our country. We provide Hungary's largest humanitarian aid ever. Almost 700 thousand refugees from Ukraine have been admitted without any reservations; we provide care for everyone. We send the kids to school, give the adults a job. Only at last week's Warsaw Support Conference, we made EUR 37 million in commitments to Ukrainian refugees. Dear House, We help where we can, but we do not accept that the price of the war should be paid to the Hungarian people. The international situation is serious. General peace in Europe is at risk, but dark clouds are gathering above our energy security. The European Commission presented the Commission's sixth sanctioning proposal against Russia. This includes the oil embargo. The Commission proposes to eliminate oil shipments from Russia. This is unacceptable and totally contrary to the consensus reached at the Versailles Prime Minister's Summit a few weeks ago. In Versailles, the prime ministers agreed to take only steps to take account of the different energy structures of the countries and to take into account the sovereign right of each country to determine the energy mix it operates its economy in. Now, without consulting anyone at prime minister level, the Commission has come up with a proposal to break this consensus and impose a single rule on everyone. So the President of the Commission has deliberately and unwittingly attacked the very difficult European unity. Now, in hindsight, he has started the negotiations, he has also negotiated in Hungary, but there is still a lot to discuss so that our country can change its position. The adoption of this proposal would mean that the price of petrol and gas oil would rise to HUF 700 the next day. Not to mention industrial production plants, some of which would be destroyed immediately, shut down and put thousands of workers on the streets. Basically, the Hungarian economy would stop completely without Russian oil. This would be equivalent to a nuclear bomb that they want to drop on the Hungarian economy, and we do not accept that. Dear House, The Hungarian left has been on the side of Brussels, not the Hungarians, in many international debates in recent years. [[Gergely Harvester: That's not true! You're not telling the truth, you know?!]] Now we're asking them not to do that. No party political aspect shall override the representation of the Hungarian national interest. We therefore call on the representatives of the left-wing national and European Parliament to take the position that the Hungarian people had appointed on 3 April: they should also clearly say no to Brussels' new sanctioned proposal; say no to Brussels' gas and oil embargo. Get on the side of the Hungarian people! Please understand that the Hungarian Parliament must decide not on the Russians or on the Ukrainians in relation to the oil embargo, but on Hungary! Dear House, An oil or gas embargo would also mean the immediate end of the Hungarian overhead reduction, but in the short term it could also cause the situation that no raw material is coming to Hungary at all. We have to stop this. The government can also rely on the Fidesz fraction to ensure the country's energy supply and to maintain the reduction of its costs. He stands by the government with all his might. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Gergely Harvesto: Thank God!]]
u2022-05-10-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will give the answer to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to say a few words about the economic aspect of the situation. Well, I don't think it's news that the war situation has only increased the economic problems facing Europe. The continent is affected by significant inflation, the main cause of which is the rise in energy prices. This process started for various reasons before the outbreak of the war, and the military conflict just threw a shovel at it. [[Gergely Arató: Especially in Hungary...]] And what does that mean in numbers? According to Eurostat figures, the annual increase in energy prices was 38 per cent in April and 44 per cent in March. So the main responsibility is the increase in energy prices. All this leads to the German Die Zeit saying that life in Germany is more expensive than ever in the last 40 years. Since 1981, inflation has not been as high in Germany as it is now. [[Gergely Arató: In Hungary too!]] Because of the war, gas oil prices have increased by 144 percent in this country, 47 percent in fuel and 41 percent in gas. The IMF's analysis of the introduction of energy embargoes against Russia and Russia's separation from the international financial system is even more crucial, which would reduce the European economy by 3 percent in 2023, not the Russian economy, but the European economy. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] That's why we have to be very reasonable. Therefore, we cannot support the introduction of sanctions that hurt Europe just as much or much more than Russia. In this situation, shooting ourselves in the leg in an economic sense is not the solution. Yesterday, the President of the European Commission negotiated with the Hungarian Prime Minister here in Budapest, and the government informed him why the draft sanctions in their present form are not acceptable: they would essentially endanger security of supply and lead to lasting price increases in the short term. It also shows that we want to enforce the most important principle that we will not allow the price of war to be paid by the Hungarian people, especially the Hungarian people. Dear House, The protection of Hungarian families in Hungary beyond the international negotiations is not an issue either. We offer a helping hand in many ways: we have introduced the gas stop, the food stop, the interest stop; for years there has been a reduction in the resistop's maiden name, and left-wing parties have been alarming for weeks now that left-wing opinion leaders have already started to do so before the election, that they are coming, they are coming, the restrictions are coming, and these pricestops are going to be over. Compared to this, the government did not terminate these measures but extended them. [[10.30]] And we have already experienced a financial crisis in 2008-09 and there is a clear difference between the two governments. The main difference is that the Hungarian economy is now much more stable on its own feet; for example, despite the epidemic, economic growth was 7 percent last year. This is the EU's top priority. Our foreign exchange exposure is also much lower. The importance of this, I think, is not particularly important in this situation either. Despite all difficulties, financial problems, despite epidemics, that's why we were able to restore the 13th month's pension, so wage increases continued, so the minimum wage increased, so the increase in medical wages continued, so the increase in nursing wages continued, so that young people under the age of 25 get tax exemptions and I could continue the line for a long time. To sum up, I can tell you that we are not on the path of left-wing austerity. [[Gergely Harvesto: The right hand restraint!]] We are pursuing a national defence policy, and as long as this government is in office, it will remain so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-10-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. CXXVIII of 2011 on the 10th amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary and the amendment of certain laws relating to disaster management and related legislation will now follow, according to our agenda points. joint general debate on the draft law amending the law until closure. Government referrals T/25. and T/26. can be accessed on the Parliament's IT network by numbers for all of us. I declare that the proposals will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! First, I would like to give the floor to Minister of Justice Judit Varga, the author of the bill, who will say his expo from here on the platform. We'll wait for him to arrive. In the meantime, I will inform you that Madam Minister has a 30-minute timeframe. Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to introduce with philosophical thought the amendment of the Fundamental Law. The idea of Francis Fukuyama, which many have seen in the decades following the change of the system, is perhaps familiar to many, that the victory of the West, the western idea, has taken place, the end of history, the sound of Beethoven's music from the loudspeakers of Japanese shops, and rock music is popular both in Prague, Rangoon and Tehran. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There have been, and there are, those who think that the believers of the end of history are actually trying to break down our natural self-image of our faith, culture, love of our country, to build identity crumbled in as homogeneous colors as possible, along the lines of global economic and ideological expectations. In 2011, this was answered by the new Fundamental Law, which created continuity between our great-grandmothers, our grandfathers, the faith and the worldview of our ancestors, and the identity of our children and grandchildren. Even then, we thought that ensuring this foundation, protecting our culture, history and families, was the best we could do in a constitutional sense to protect our independence, sovereignty and future generations. This foresight has been repeatedly confirmed by the past ten years and by life. That is why it is important to swear on this Fundamental Law today by those who regard the service of the country and the nation as their calling. Ladies and gentlemen, Over peaceful decades, we believed that physical conflicts had already exceeded time. However, life has proved that this is not the case. The war, the real armed conflict, the XXI. It also became part of the history of Europe in the first century. The Russian-Ukrainian war in our country's neighbourhood has not only resulted in a humanitarian crisis that has never been experienced since the Second World War, but also changed the European economic outlook. To address these challenges and prevent harmful effects, we need to ensure that effective and rapid national responses are developed. This is what the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law is about: preparing for the extraordinary challenges of extraordinary times, the freedom of responsible action. This also means, in the language of the rule of law, that in the spirit of responsible foresight, we prepare our legal order for ourselves and for the safety of the generations that follow us to deal with situations that are unimaginable. History has shown many times that each war presents hard challenges, alongside the leaders of state life, to citizens who are stable, predictable, decent, peaceful and peaceful, who love their families and their country. The negative consequences of the Russian-Ukrainian war are experienced by all people, and they have a direct impact on everyone's lives. I do not need to remind anyone that, as a result of the war, there has never been any uncertainty in the area of energy supply in Europe, as world market prices have been unleashed in terms of both natural gas and oil, and this directly affects the functioning of the economy, which now threatens the everyday lives of households in certain countries of Europe, and we must not forget that winter is coming! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It should also be noted that, partly from the effects of these factors on manufacturing and partly from the war, supply disruptions can also be prepared in the food industry, which all entail the risk of market disturbances and economic recession. We are well aware that millions of refugees have come from Ukraine to neighbouring countries, which are doing their best to improve the conditions of those in distress, to provide them with accommodation and to provide them with decent care. In this situation, it has become particularly important to guarantee peace and security, the ability to deal effectively with the crisis. Dear Parliament, Hungary has always been on the side of peace, before and since the war. On 3 April, Hungarian voters made a clear and inexplicably strong position that we should stay out of this war. They also confirmed the government's ambition that any international action in relation to the situation in Ukraine, such as decisions on sanctions, would focus solely on national interests. Accordingly, we will not allow the price of the war to be paid to Hungarian households, and we will not give rise to any pressure if the planned sanctions endanger the security of Hungarian energy supply or the functioning of the Hungarian industry. On 3 April, the national conservative side was given an unprecedented mandate to govern. As a result of the uniquely strong democratic legitimacy, we have already defended the reduction of the rent and introduced price stops and export bans so that the negative effects of inflation are not felt by households. There are some places where less bathing is recommended, other places where clothes are ventilated. With us, protecting families, price-stopping is the solution. As Prime Minister said, whose government does what? In view of all this, it must now be possible to take decisions to protect our country from external impacts if necessary, to counter the negative effects of the economic recession and to help humanitarian disasters, refugees from the war, in the dangerous times ahead. I must also stress that, because of the armed conflict in our neighbourhood, the government must pay particular attention not only to Hungarians but also to the security of our fellow citizens living in Transcarpathia, because we know that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a well-known fact throughout the world that Hungary, among the Member States of the European Union, has adopted the most refugees from Ukraine, as we are already at nearly 700 thousand people. Hungarians always help those in trouble, especially if they live next door. That is why we have united and implemented the greatest humanitarian action in Hungary's history, which is still taking place. [[10.40]] This is the common merit of all of us, of those volunteers, of those who work in church and civil society organisations, of those in offices, who rushed to the border tirelessly to help the border, who took in refugees, who provided donations, or even a good word for helping those in distress. And, of course, it is also the credit of law enforcement and defence workers who, at the border and at reception stations, have shown a superhuman status every day. Thank you all for that. Mr President, The starting point and aim are therefore clear: Hungarians must be protected, the price of the war must not be paid by Hungarian households, and this requires effective and rapid decision-making tools. In order to guarantee this, the Government has developed the two drafts before us, the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law and the related amendment of the Disaster Protection Act. Even the coronal virus pandemic has shown that normal legal instruments are not sufficient to remedy the consequences of an emergency, even because we have to deal with a combination of unforeseen, interrelated and interrelated consequences. In view of this, the government's clear position is that it is the instruments of extraordinary legal order that prove appropriate to address the challenges. Therefore, these proposals now give the government the opportunity to have the full toolbox of the special legal order available. The two proposals on the House's table build on one another to ensure that the government, as it did during the most difficult times of the pandemic, is able, in a fast, efficient and predictable way, to mitigate and eliminate the negative effects of war. Please allow me to present very briefly the content of these drafts. The main element of the package of proposals submitted is the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law, which ensures that the war situation or humanitarian disaster in the neighbouring country in the event of armed conflict and the elimination of their consequences can provide a legal basis for declaring an emergency. It is also important to stress that the amendment of the Fundamental Law does not change the constitutional principle that special legal order can only be declared if events in the neighbouring State actually have a serious, particularly humanitarian or economic impact in Hungary, or if the risk of such serious effects is realistic. Another element of the package of proposals is the amendment of the Disaster Protection Act, which is closely linked to the 10th amendment of the Fundamental Law, as a result of ensuring the coherence of the legal system, and notably to the new emergency situation, the provisions allowing the government to act, such as, of course, emergency rules announced in order to prevent or eliminate the consequences of the human epidemic that endangers the safety of life and property and to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens. It should be noted that the legislative proposal submitted is necessary but does not exceed what can be expected. However, it gives the government the opportunity to intervene continuously, quickly and effectively. I also consider that the guarantee provision on regulation provides that emergency measures taken by the Government should be reviewed by the Constitutional Court in the event of a motion to do so. The Constitutional Court, on the basis of its practice in examining the constitutionality of emergency legislation, shall verify, in relation to fundamental rights which may be limited beyond the normal legal order, that the action contested in the Constitutional Court's motion has been intervened in that fundamental right, that the fundamental rights restriction has a legitimate purpose and that this legitimate objective is related to the prevention, management and eradication of the event or consequences of an event that triggers a special legal order. It also checks that the limitation of fundamental rights is capable of achieving this legitimate objective. Finally, it examines that the proportionality of the fundamental rights limitation can be established and that, subject to Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law, the legislator is satisfied at intervals that the restriction is maintained and extended. Dear Parliament, We are living in challenging times when we need to listen to our common sense and focus on prudent construction, so that our country can ensure that effective and fast national responses can be developed. In this case, we must carefully consider the existing circumstances in order to guarantee the protection of our country and the security of the generations after us in a way that will always result in the most favourable scenario for the Hungarian people. The stormy history of our country has taught us that only trees in the political forest of Europe do not break out or break down, even in the wildest counterwinds, which lower their roots. Migration, pandemics, and war have proved that history is far from over. Those who sat back thought the world was finished, are now in great trouble, since they cannot adapt to the ever - evolving world order. Some believed that we would only live in green ages, for example. Then the war knocks on the window, winter approaches, and nuclear power plants in many places in Europe are already closed. Instead of planning a green future, there is now a rush and recklessness in many divided Western democracies. I therefore ask my honourable fellow Members to consider their decision well, and I would also ask my fellow opposition Members to put aside their possible frustration caused by the election result, and to help us, regardless of party standing, to equip Hungary in a world of crisis and uncertainty. Quick response time, effective action. We treat those fleeing the war, minimize economic damage, and protect the Hungarian families by the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law, no more and no less. I therefore ask you to support the proposals before us and thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-05-10-34	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I would like to announce before giving the floor to the lead speaker of Fidesz that there may be an exchange of chairmen on the move. With all due respect, as Vice-President Dóra Dúró is also taking up her role as chair of the meeting, on this occasion I would ask you to step up your efforts. I am now giving the floor to Mr István Vitányi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who is speaking about his place. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-10-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There's a war going on in the neighborhood of our country. The Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict has aroused the interest of all our countrymen, which has resulted in a humanitarian crisis that has not been experienced since World War II and has also caused serious changes in the world economy. We're all very concerned about what's happening every day. Unfortunately, the negative consequences of the war have a direct impact on everyone's lives, which are seen by each Hungarian citizen. All we need to think about is the rising world energy prices, the economic recession, the current supply disruptions in the food industry or other market disturbances. It is Hungary's responsibility to provide for those fleeing war, to minimise the economic damage caused by the war, and to protect Hungarian people to the fullest extent possible from the adverse effects on the economy. It is also a well-known fact, and I would like to point out this in any case, that Hungary, among the Member States of the European Union, has taken in most of the refugees from Ukraine, as a proportion of the population. It is well known that we Hungarians always help those in trouble, especially when they live next door. The exemplary cooperation, proper care and accommodation of refugees is in the common interest of all Hungarians. Special thanks have been given to volunteers, law enforcement and defence workers, who show tireless support for refugees from day to day. I personally saw the Ukrainian-Hungarian, Ukrainian-Romanian border, and I myself participated in the work of the volunteers, and I can testify that they did a sacrifice and perseverance job. [[10.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, To deal with the humanitarian disaster and to avoid the consequences of reorganising international economic changes, our country must be able to develop effective and rapid national responses. On 3 April, the Hungarians made a clear and unquestioned stand in favour of staying out of this armed conflict, and we cannot allow the price of the war to be paid by the Hungarians. While there are some states that think differently on this issue, Hungary and the Hungarians remain the first countries to protect them. We must therefore protect the Hungarians, but this requires effective and swift decision-making. In order to guarantee this, the two legislative proposals before us, the 10th amendment of the Fundamental Law and the amendment of the Disaster Protection Act will therefore be submitted. As the Minister pointed out, the Crown Virus pandemic has also shown that the tools of the extraordinary legal order have proved to be the most appropriate to address and address the challenges arising from the emergency, and therefore the proposals before us are the ones that give the government the opportunity to have the special legal order with a full set of tools. Dear House, The Fundamental Law is the basis of Hungary's legal order, an alliance between the past, the present and the Hungarians of the future. The Fundamental Law is a living framework that protects the identity of Hungarians, expresses their value system, embodies their will, and defines the most fundamental forms of their existence under public law. I therefore welcome the fact that the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law also aims to ensure the safety of our country and our families. The amendment of the basic law on the House's table ensures that the war situation or humanitarian disaster in the neighbouring country, as well as the removal of their consequences, provides a legal basis for declaring an emergency. It should be noted, however, that the current amendment does not alter the constitutional principle that the publication of a special legal order is possible only if events in neighbouring countries actually have a serious humanitarian or economic impact in Hungary and that the risk of such serious effects is realistic. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to briefly mention the amendment of the Disaster Protection Act, which sets out the provisions allowing the government to act for the new emergency case. As a rule of guarantee, in the proposal submitted, the obligation of the Constitutional Court to review the emergency measures taken by the Government in the event of a motion to do so. The Constitutional Court examines, in relation to fundamental rights which may be limited beyond the normal legal order, that the action contested in the motion is an intervention in that fundamental right, that the fundamental rights restriction has a legitimate objective which is linked to the prevention, management and eradication of an event or its consequences which triggers a special legal order, that the limitation of fundamental rights is capable of achieving a legitimate objective, that the limitation of fundamental rights meets the proportionality criterion and that the legislator has satisfied at intervals that the restriction is justified. Dear Parliament, I do not wish to add any more, as the Minister has presented in exhaustive detail the essential elements of the package of proposals submitted and the international circumstances leading to its creation. I can only stress that in the dangerous decade ahead, we must take decisions to protect Hungary from external effects and the adverse consequences of the economic recession. So it doesn't matter what path we take. We must now act in accordance with national interests, and therefore the Fidesz Group supports the legislative proposals tabled. I would ask all my fellow Members to do the same, and with their support to help Hungary defend itself and guarantee its safety. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-10-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató, who will speak here on the platform. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-37	Mr President, Dear House, You must know what the Democratic Coalition's view of the Fundamental Law is, what is our position on this legislation. From the outset, our view has not changed, and this has not changed, that the current Fundamental Law does not provide an adequate framework for the public life of the country, for the political life of the country, and does not meet the expectations that the public rightly raises against the modern constitution of a democratic country, and that citizens are rightfully founded. It is not appropriate, because it was born in a broad social consultation, not seeking consensus, seeking agreement. It does not comply with this because it does not contain adequate guarantees and protection for citizens' rights. This has been demonstrated over the past decade by a number of cases that this Fundamental Law gives the government, in particular the government, such a power that goes far beyond what would be justified by the necessary means of governance and that the necessary measures can be taken. It is not appropriate either because it offers many ways to create the possibility of informal power beyond cycles, beyond the choices of the majority, in many areas of public life. And it is not appropriate either because this Fundamental Law is constantly being amended according to current political intentions, but never by seeking consensus, never by reaching out for agreement, but always by reason of your political interest at the moment. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) However, it does show that in ten years we are already on the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law, once declared to be granite-solid. It is quite obvious that this is not a long-term Fundamental Law, which properly regulates relations in the long term, but a basic rubber law that you are always modifying as you wish in your momentary convenience, intention and political interest. It is also quite obvious that the current amendment to the basic law has only one purpose, and fortunately, after the collapse of the coronal virus epidemic, it seems that the worst of this may be beyond our means of maintaining the emergency, now with another reference, not on the basis of the coronal virus epidemic, but on the basis of something else. No misunderstanding, we know and understand that the Russian aggression against Ukraine, the attack, the terrible war that is taking place in Ukraine today is indeed a threat to Hungary as well. We know and understand that this has safety and economic risks for Hungary. So the question is not that there is such a danger, the question is not that there is a need for government measures. The question is that there is a need for an emergency and that there is a need to amend the Fundamental Law in this situation. We see that this is not necessarily the case. I would like to remind Parliament of a historical example. József Antall, who is obviously not to be blamed for being left-wing, but he was undoubtedly a Democrat in his own way, did not request or receive any extra-constitutional authority during the Yugoslav war, although the war, if you remember me as my older fellow Members, did indeed take place directly at the Hungarian border, and even in the territory of Hungary there was an act of war. That war was a very serious threat to Hungary, but the Antall government and József Antall handled this war situation within the democratic constitutional framework. We do not see why this should be any different today. It may be necessary in such a situation, since neither of us can see into the future; it may indeed be necessary to take measures which in some way require further authorisation. But these measures... I am asking you not to ask for authorisation for these measures, but to bring them here to Parliament. On the one hand, they have a two-thirds majority, but on the other hand, I would like to say to you that everything that is necessary in a given situation will be supported by us, and I think the other opposition parties will be the same. [[11.00]] But you're not asking for support for specific measures, you're not bringing concrete proposals here, you're asking for blank cheques again. You may remember that when they first did this at the beginning of the coronal virus epidemic, we said that we could accept in itself that this type of authorisation might be necessary, but we ask for two things: one is to be clear as to how long this authorisation lasts and the other is to have proper control. You were not willing to accept these two requests at the time, and it was not possible to find a solution. And what was the consequence? The fact that, if I count it well, for almost two years, and even more than two years, they have been constantly prolonging the emergency, bringing it in over and over again, they are initiating it over and over again without giving any substantial consideration in their submissions, in their billings, to the extent that this is still necessary. There is also a problem with control in this bill, because although the control of the Constitutional Court was mentioned, the possibility of control of the Constitutional Court is not time-bound. The Constitutional Court, if you like, will deal with it, if you don't feel like it, will not deal with it. Indeed, on one occasion, a decision was taken where the Constitutional Court assessed the constitutionality of your actions and decided that they did not comply with the requirements of this time limit for freedom of information, but as a systemic guarantee, this institution does not function. There is also another very soft guarantee in current and current legislation, which would require the representatives of the government to regularly report to Parliament on the measures taken by the government during the emergency, but this has not been done in writing or orally after the first six months of the crisis. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You weren't here!]] For example, it has not occurred on any occasion in the last six months that any representative of the government will report on the measures taken by the government during the emergency. One of the most important effects of this war, this attack on Hungary, is the refugee crisis. We are all grateful to the civilians who started working with refugees, who were there at the first moment, civil society organisations, church organisations, local authorities, I am proud of the way in which the local government of Kőbánya and Kispest supported refugees without belonging to the party, and of course we owe thanks to government officials or even the law enforcement agencies who are involved in this work. But I do not know, you know, fellow Members, that there is still a crisis in Hungary caused by mass immigration. Because this was introduced in 2015 and has been extended since 2015 every time there was no mass immigration, migration or wave of refugees. I would like to say with all this that the legal instruments needed to deal with the situation are still at the disposal of the government today. I would add that the Fundamental Law is still an opportunity to deal with far more serious situations, as there are other options under exceptional legal order, of course in the case of appropriate conditions and guarantees. So today, the government still has every legal opportunity to deal with the consequences of the war, the war. So why are you asking for permission again, why are you asking for a blank check again, why are you asking for it again so that you can make a long line of decisions without parliamentary control? The reasons for this have essentially been stated before the agenda and now also in the debate in Parliament. Because the economic situation is extremely serious. And the economic situation is extremely serious, or extremely serious, not only because there is a war next door, but also because your economic policy is failing and your foreign policy has failed, which has tied Hungary's chariot to Russia in the last ten years. You have done nothing to reduce Hungary's energy dependency, primarily its dependence on Russian gas and oil, and you have done nothing to enable it to replace energy that may have fallen out of the war in another way, you have done nothing to make the Hungarian economy shockproof and resilient. Madam Minister has mentioned greening as a swear word, while for Hungary, true independence is not theoretical independence, but one of the most important secrets of true economic independence would be the increased use of renewable energies; it is that the Hungarian economy is not dependent on foreign energy sources, whether it is Russian oil transport, Russian gas transport or Russian uranium transport. You have not only done nothing in this, but in recent years you have blocked the transition to renewable energy, and a social crisis that you will again be happy to do for the war, but unfortunately, this has already begun to unfold before the war. And, you know, only in the KSH there is as much inflation as you say here, in the shops, at the cashiers, citizens meet 20-30 percent inflation, and they pay their pensions not in the KSH, but in the store at the cashier. The Hungarian people are living more and more hard, the pension is getting less and less, the salary is getting less and less, or I could say that it is ours, but the salary of hardworking workers, or the pay of teachers is getting less and less. You want to deal with this situation, and you want to deal with the fact that we have a budget, which is a fiction. Today Hungary has an imaginary budget, because what Parliament adopted last year by 2022, except for its title, is basically not true. There is a cutting inflation, there is a huge budget deficit, there is a growing social crisis, and instead of coming to Parliament and telling us what economic measures they want to address it, they would discuss it in public, but instead they would like to continue to practice what they have been doing in the last two and a half years to make decisions by means of government resolutions and by publication at midnight to try to fill the holes in a row and to make new huge leaks on the ship that is already in bad condition. Therefore, you need this kind of authority to make economic and social decisions without control or debate, or to ban the strike of teachers or any other social group if you wish. I know that the reference to danger, the reference to the great unknown danger, is a constant reference to all political forces that want to restrict the functioning of democracy and the freedom of citizens. But now, just yesterday, when we remembered the 77th anniversary of victory over Nazism, we also need to remind ourselves that 77 years ago, we also found out that democracy can cope with difficult situations. The answer to difficult situations is not to rule, not to abandon democracy, but to the contrary. Benjamin Franklin said that anyone who gives up their fundamental freedom for temporary security does not deserve freedom or security. We do not want to give up the freedom of citizens, we do not want to be partners in further dismantling and overcoming democracy, so we cannot support this bill. At the same time, we are happy to support any proposals to address the consequences of war, to alleviate the social crisis, to solve economic problems and to bring them here democratically to Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-05-10-38	Welcome, fellow Members. The debate will continue by hearing the keynote speech of the KDNP. The group's speech will be presented by two Members. First, I give the floor to Mr. István Simicskó, leader of the group. Here you go.
u2022-05-10-39	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear Madam Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a very important constitutional amendment, amendment of the basic law and amendment of a fundamental law before us. [[11.10]] We know that the Fundamental Law is the fundamental pillar of our rule of law, the law, as it is taught at all legal universities, and we really must pay particular attention to what the subject of the amendment is, what the purpose of the amendment is, indeed, to whether it is relevant. The detailed justification for the intention and proposal of the Government to amend before us is quite correct in explaining what the intention of this amendment is, why this is necessary, the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law and the amendment of the Disaster Protection Act. I would like to say that I have listened to Gergely Arató's speech, and there is a major mistake here and there, and this is something that we should be looking at. But before I get to that, let me tell you a thing or two. It is certain that a basic law must also be stable and predictable on the basis of our well-understood expectations, as it also means permanence, permanence, status quo, the emergence of law-abiding behaviour, the experience and application of our citizens. So, in terms of predictability, it is an important virtue that we only apply to the amendment of the Fundamental Law in particularly justified cases, since it is a good Fundamental Law. However, we also see that while, of course, as a good order, we are looking for the constant, the permanent, and a kind of soothing truth of this, the world is changing very intensely and very quickly. We often say that the XXI. The century has become a century of challenges, dangers, risks, threats. It wasn't meant to be, but it turned out to be this way. Well, well, there's another war going on in our neighborhood now, not only have we seen the Yugoslav sister war in our southern neighbours, now there's another brother war in our eastern neighbours, the Russian-Ukrainian war. Ladies and gentlemen, It is certain that, in today's situation, in this world, we must strive to ensure the security and protection of the country, the protection of our citizens clearly requires that the executive authority is given the right authority to carry out its task of creating security. So it is not possible to go through everything in the context of parliamentary debates when a rapid response is needed, because the dangers are also occurring much faster today than ever before. Therefore, I and the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party naturally agree with the Government's intention, the need for and the aim of the amendment, and we will also support this endeavour in the vote, and we will now also support it in the general debate. I have dealt quite a lot with the special legal order and, before that, the case of qualified periods, and a brief historical overview is certainly worth doing, because it is not so that during the Yugoslav War we did not change the basic law. But, we've modified it, because we've brought in a new, then classified temporary status, this unexpected burglary, an unexpected attack. After all, if, let us say, any of the parties to the war had strayed well-intentionally, suppose or had strayed across the border of Hungary and entered into some kind of combat action there, we would have had only one option within this rule of law, this is the declaration of a state of emergency. After all, at that time three qualified periodical facts dealt with this, the state of emergency, the state of emergency and the state of emergency, and the state of emergency, but we would have dragged Hungary into an undesirable war, the Yugoslav war. That is why the legislator had to touch the constitution and amend the case of the unexpected attack and unexpected burglary. So it is not true that the Yugoslav war did not trigger a constitutional intention, but triggered it, and it certainly was the possible solution at the time. It is also necessary to ensure the security of the country that... in 2004, when your MSZP-SZDSZ government was in power, the basic law, the constitution and the defence law were amended, since the general military commitment was abolished. Because of this, we had quite serious debates at the time, Ferenc Juhász was the Minister of Defence, and I also said that this will not work, because the security of Hungary is above all, the security of Hungary is the first, and we cannot allow the Hungarian Defence Office to be able to fail, we must not have a reserve system, we must have a operational reserve system. Thanks to your administration, in 2010 we got to the point that 17 reserve soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces, that is, please, a shame. In addition, no reserve system was set up, which would have been organised on a territorial protection principle, and a significant decline in the capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces also occurred. In 2004, we amended the basic law because it was an opportunity for you, a temporary opportunity for the new constitutional amendment adopted in the preventive defense situation to be the new qualified period, which gave Parliament 60 days, and it was two thirds of a decision that if and if we arrived in the hallway of the war, it would be possible to restore the general military commitment in the event of increasing international tensions. Thank God, it never had to be announced, but here, too, the constitutional amendment that tried to be some kind of lifelike, even if not the best solution, extended the qualified periods with some kind of constitutional amendment. When 400,000 migrants passed through Hungary in 2015, during the period of the migration crisis, and then in Europe, in the larger cities of Europe, the terrorist threat increased incredibly, we saw the increase in the number of acts of terrorism, innocent people gave their lives in the meaningless bombings of migrants and terrorists, and that's when we went back to Parliament, brought the terrorist threat and the terrorist attack into the new Fundamental Law, then among the special legal realities. Therefore, it must always be pursued that, if there is a current threat and if constitutional powers are not sufficient, it does not extend, because it cannot extend to all kinds of dangers, but the basic cases, on the basis of our current knowledge, those challenges, threats and threats, must be regulated and dealt with in the Fundamental Law. Moreover, the countries of the world are clearly going to the point that the executive power, the current government, which is, by the way, a governing power, although we call it a classic executive power, because in a free, democratic country, there are parliamentary elections in a rule of law, there must be an account in the elections of the government's operation and actions. It also informs Parliament, since, in recent times, even during the epidemic, the government itself, the Prime Minister, has provided regular information, foreign minister information, and there are committees where they have also received the necessary information on what measures the government has taken and why it has taken. So I believe that the executive authority and the government should be given the opportunity to eliminate, remedy, act in time, act, and, of course, give information to the legislative authority and the necessary committees in due time. Ladies and gentlemen, We know that the Fundamental Law will be amended as of 1 July 23, as the current six special legal conditions will change into three: the state of emergency, which will continue to run under the name of a state of war, thus expressing the actual military armed conflict better, maintaining the state of emergency and maintaining the emergency. The emergency is now being extended with the condition that lies before us, namely Article 53 (1); the government's armed conflict, war situation or humanitarian disaster in a neighbouring country; and the text on the elemental blow to the security of life and property. We believe that this is a satisfactory and good answer to the challenges that we face. Indeed, the humanitarian disaster is clearly seen as a result of the Russian-Ukrainian war, and it can be seen that very many people arrive to Hungary, most of them arriving here in proportion to their population, for the 10 million Hungarian citizens. The Hungarian government will do everything in its power to help and provide the greatest humanitarian assistance in its history to people in this conflict who are in trouble, fleeing from war, coming from Ukraine, Ukrainians, Hungarians, Ruthenians and others. So this is a good attitude, and we also support the government's ambition. Finally, let me say that, of course, it is possible to have legal philosophical debates and various philosophies about the different periods of peace that we express with the special legislative periods... by declaring this, how much peace is now, let us say, compared to the end of the 1990s, how the usual and truly peaceful everyday times have changed to this, since we know that we are living in the world of hybrid warfare. [[11.20]] We know that Hungary, state institutions and ministries, as well as our armed and law enforcement organisations, are being attacked on a daily basis in the virtual world. In this sense, of course, we can no longer talk about classical peace, and the fact is that we strive for it in vain, although there are many events that have a serious message, including in the various beauty competitions, everyone tells us that fitness and world peace, we have to wait and work for world peace, if that ever happens. But one thing is certain: what we can do beyond that, in order to emphasize our stand for world peace, it is very important to give the government the capacity to act and, of course, to have a defence culture, a security-conscious defence culture and a force that we can discourage those who wish to do bad from any actual attack on Hungary in an armed, military sense. Finally, I will conclude by saying that the KDNP faction supports the government's presentation and will continue to support it in the final vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-10-40	Following Mr Fraction Manager's speech, Mr Imre Vejkey continued to present KDNP's position. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-10-41	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Continuing with the lead speech of the group leader, I would like to place a quote on your heart as the lead speaker for the first legislative debate of the 2022-26 parliamentary term. * Gaudium et spes, 31.3.: The future belongs to those who are able to provide meaning and hope for today's generations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and Gentlemen, Minister Judit Varga submitted the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law to the Parliament. You may ask: why did this submission become necessary, why did the tenth amendment of the basic law become necessary? Because in our neighbourhood there has been a war, which has led to challenges that have not been experienced since World War II, a humanitarian situation, changing the world and the image and position of Europe in it. And for these new situations and challenges, Hungary must ensure that effective and rapid national responses are developed. Therefore, the proposal for a tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law contains two articles. The first amends Article 53 of the Fundamental Law on the announcement of an emergency, which allows the Government to introduce exceptional measures as laid down in a fundamental law in the event of armed conflict, war or humanitarian disaster in the neighbouring country, in addition to the elemental disaster that endangers life and property security. The second part of the proposal harmonises the previous amendment of the Fundamental Law, which will enter into force in 2023. Ladies and Gentlemen, We have heard a lot here from my opposition colleagues during the speeches, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law is more than just a law, the law of the law. Remember that by means of the so-called Easter Fundamental Law, our country returned to organic law development in 2011. Remember that the most important characteristic of the Hungarian nation is the love of constitutionality! That's why it's not a coincidence that the II. The Golden Bull, issued by King Andrew just 800 years ago, rivals the Magna Charter in time and content, was issued in 1222. It is very interesting that today we are being attacked by the rule of law by those who, in 1222 perhaps were not even at the sorority level, and we already had a constitution. The Golden Bull lays down principles which, to this day, are among the more fundamental truths of a rule of law: the principle of one and the same freedom, the guarantee of equal rights for free country dwellers, the right of resistance, the possibility of the same persons to resist a ruler who violates the historic constitution. The 800-year-old Golden Bull is not only of historical significance, but also a law that still exists on the basis of our Fundamental Law that allows us to enforce our historic constitution through interpretation of the law. The iconic lines of the National Creed in the Fundamental Law state that we respect the achievements of our historic constitution and the Holy Crown, which embodies Hungary's constitutional state continuity and national unity. We believe that protecting our identity, which is rooted in our historic constitution, is a fundamental duty of the state. Article R (3), which is incorporated into the Fundamental Law, states that the provisions of the Fundamental Law must be interpreted in accordance with their purpose, the national creed and the achievements of our historic constitution. Well, this is the constitutional faith of our nation, and not what we have just heard from our fellow Member on behalf of DK. The spiritual heritage of our historic constitution therefore transcends our Easter Fundamental Law. Therefore, if we are to be citizens worthy of our heroes, we must retain the guiding spiritual power of our historic constitution, that is to say, we must do everything we can to preserve our national-Christian values. We must say that we are only on the right track if our rights and obligations flow from the organic development of our historic constitution. Once again, I must draw your attention to the fact that there were times when this organic development forced our country away. This was done by the "49th of the year" XX. Also law, the old constitution, which the opposition, as was said in the election campaign, will want to bring back. So, this old constitution, this 1949 XX. Law, as you can see from the date, was a simple Hungarian translation of the Stalin Constitution, born in the shadow of Soviet bayonets. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] Even though this translation has undergone significant changes after the change of regime, the Communist Constitution of the year to be left has not changed in its inspiration. During its duration, we felt as if we were in a castle without guards. Return to our organic constitutional development took place on 25 April 2011 under our Easter Fundamental Law. Again, we have to say this because for many, this fact is not self-evident. I am convinced that our most important legacy is the Christian root from which the Hungarian state grew a thousand years ago. Therefore, our Easter Fundamental Law begins with our national prayer, the first line of the Hungarian Anthem, that is to say, God, bless the Hungarian! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Our Fundamental Law then states in the National Creed that we do not recognise the suspension of our historic constitution due to alien occupations. So our current legislation states that we do not recognize the communist constitution of 1949, because it was the basis of a tyrannical rule, so we declare its nullity. Well, that's the invalid constitution the opposition wanted to bring back. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame! Nacsa Lőrinc: Shooting Law!]] Shot of law. This means that Hungary has been resurrected and resurrected in the sky by its Easter Fundamental Law of 2011 and is defending its citizens for a thousand years. Ladies and Gentlemen, For a thousand years, the Hungarian nation has been constantly expressing its desire to live in a Christian national form. [[11.30]] Therefore, only occupation or total dictatorship could override this. We Hungarians consider traditional Christian values important, so we consider the creation of the world to be important, and that man was created for man and woman. The Hungarian Constitution also provides a line of defence for this. This line of defense is protected by Fidesz-KDNP. Therefore, whatever foreign pressure we are under, Hungary does not sell its future for a bowl of lenses. Let's go, Hungary, let's go, Hungarians! Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-10-42	We now have the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr László György Lukács, on a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-05-10-43	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Madam Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, We are not in dispute with anyone, and there is no question that Hungary has a security threat through Russian aggression, aggression on Ukrainians and the war that has taken place, and must plan and organise its everyday life and the normal functioning of the country in a security threat. There is no question that this affects not only the defence of Hungary's internal order or even the defence of Hungary, but also every section of life, every segment, whether it is the economy, education or anything else, many situations and many areas that we have never thought of before. The rise in prices, partly because of this, and partly because of the delay in government measures, can now be felt in every store, in every wallet, and the impact of war in this area seems inevitable. However, we must certainly argue that the way in which you are now seeking a mandate, and yet the way in which you are seeking authorisation, is by using an addition to an extraordinary legal order, in choosing the right instrument, but we must now enter into a debate. I have had the pleasure of taking part in the debate on the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and the subsequent debate on national protection, on the one hand, and disaster protection, on the other hand, on the whole extraordinary legal order and on the full re-regulation that will enter into force on 1 July of this year, so I have had the pleasure of participating in these debates, and there have been ample arguments to support the need to re-regulate the institution of the previously existing exceptional legal order and for what reasons. We have all agreed, and I have not heard a difference in the fact that the speakers, pro-government speakers and even ministers have agreed that by changing the current change to the needs of the age, which you have said, that the changed security policy, changed economic situation and our attempts to transform the special rule of law, which meets the changed challenges of warfare and law enforcement, will ultimately be the right thing to do. So it should be seen that when you set up this system, it was designed to be a unified and coherent system in which there was no need for an amendment. I am particularly pleased that, by the way, my fellow Member Simicskó was here, he is also an expert on this subject, and an expert on this area, and I understand that he has also done scientific work in this area. It was not said then that given the security threats and challenges that would be expected in the future, and in this it was clear that a state in a geopolitical situation such as Hungary, which forms a buffer zone between the West and the Eastern interests and imperial ideas... because we should not forget that we can think of anything about the United States, Britain or Russia, they have always gone along an imperial endeavour in history, and in spite of their idea of XIX-XX. 1st century or even 21st century I mean, they didn't change anything, so they should be assumed to remain imperial thinking, so, seeing this, I meant, and I felt that the established system that was in connection with our new extraordinary legal order and the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law was completely and completely closed. That is why, on the one hand, I say that I do not see the current amendment as being justified. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You didn't vote for it!]] On the other hand, I would like to say that what is really important is, of course, those amendments to the Defence Act and the Disaster Protection Act have been voted in favour; I say this to my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, so to the best of my memory, we voted in this way at the time. What I am trying to say to you is that the last few years have been about, and this is, let's just say, a real political interpretation and an easily musicable interpretation, that Viktor Orbán has steered the country from an emergency to an emergency. On the one hand, we saw that there was a crisis caused by immigration, and there was an emergency that was unpredictable or, at the beginning, a very difficult to guess and very difficult to model, a situation that threatened a mass disease caused by the coronal virus epidemic. In essence, we have expressed all criticisms about ordering and extending these emergencies. But, overall, this question should be asked: should it serve emergencies in general, either in the interests of the foundation of extraordinary legal orders or of the seriousness or the weight of society when too many orders are ordered? So can you really fill that weight from him and, by the way, from the legal system or theory, so that people can feel and know that we really are in a different situation, which is qualitatively different, and that new challenges require new solutions? I would like to say that it certainly did not harm an emergency as an expression or an institution, if it is applied too many times, or even when it seems that we can meet the challenges in accordance with the ordinary legal order? And then here I would like to confirm that, over the past few weeks, and even now slowly in months, we have seen that, on the one hand, civil society and, on the other hand, the state have tried to react and, on the other hand, have reacted well, and that civil society has reacted very well to the situation that was a war affair next door and that has been used to deal with mass exodus from there. So what we have seen, and thank you for the fact that there has been civil and there has been state action, which, if you look at it from the government media, has been quick and effective. So, according to the ordinary legal order, we managed to take a quick and effective action at your reading and respond well to the situation. That's what it looks like in your reading. Then I don't understand why we need something like this... and it's your turn to tell us what's different or what's expected, and because it's different, because we haven't been informed in the campaign about what's going on in the war situation... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I am speaking to my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa: I understand, and I see your indignation or surprise, the Parliament's Defence and Police Committee through your fellow Member, Lajos Kósa, several times, believe me, we wanted to convene you, not for political purposes, for information, in order to know what we can expect in that situation. So it is certainly waiting for you now that the justification for Hungary's safety challenge in the medium term, in the short term or in the long term, and why it is justified to establish new rules of the current extraordinary legal order, is waiting for your justification, and unfortunately this has not been heard or informed. Of course, if these are information of a nature which cannot be discussed before the full plenum, given that they contain classified information, then I would continue to suggest, as this option was available, that information be provided either in the National Security Committee, the Defence and Police Committee or even in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And then our fellow Members, who are sitting on the opposition side, are looking for justification for this proposal, whether in the medium term or in the long term, can at least decide with all their awareness that they can support it or cannot support it. Because in your reading, you could see that the state and civil society organisations handled this well, that was done quickly and effectively, that is, in the ordinary legal order there was the opportunity and the solution to deal with the current situation and that Hungary could control the situation. On the other hand, the legislative amendment that we have just tabled goes beyond this, and in this I find the argument particularly strange that you are supporting economic arguments that this is necessary to dampen the economic impact. I think that the government has a huge impact on the economic impact through the system of public finances, through the fiscal law and through other institutions. To do so, the government has a very serious opportunity, whether at law or regulation level, not at the level of qualified, but at the level of half laws or at the level of government decrees or other ministerial decrees, and I think that it can take advantage of them. So I do not think the economic arguments behind them are arguments that can base the extraordinary legal order and the change in the legal order. [[11.40]] In any case, I can make it clear, and I would like to say this at the end, that it is absolutely important to clarify the change that you feel or see in this environment, the difficulties that we now leave the economic part of the country facing in terms of safety, and why the government is preparing for this relatively convenient governance situation. After all, if this can be introduced, the government will have to do its job with fewer accounts, less influence and less parliamentary scrutiny. And by the way, I share my previous colleague's view that the control of the Constitutional Court in itself, which was left there, is no longer sufficient in the current context, and it may not be enough to judge the justification of the special legal order ordered. Overall, I can tell you that if the state has managed to cope with enormous civilian aid and once again thank civilians for the sacrifice they have done, then there is no need for this amendment. I would also suggest to you that, by ordering or adopting or imposing such an order, it is not worth constantly eroding these extraordinary legal institutions; moreover, we are eroding them with permanent amendments. What I meant was that in the debate that we had here with the ninth amendment and the subsequent amendment of the law on defence and disaster protection, the professional debate that we had was closed, so I do not think it is necessary on this basis. And we must not empty this extremely important, and indeed only as a last resort and as a last resort, this special legal instrument so empty and, in its entirety, as I have already said, erod it. How we can support the legislation or the current bill will, of course, depend on what else is to be said here in the debate, either by the Ministry or even at committee meetings, and if so, on the hearing of ministers designated by the new standing government, which gives credible evidence that this is necessary, we will obviously be closer to finding a solution and an opportunity to adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-05-10-44	It is now time for the lead speaker of the Momentum Group, Miklós Hajnal. Here you go. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2022-05-10-45	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Madam Secretary, Dear Parliament, Given the fact that I am speaking for the first time in this House, allow me to thank the more than 25,000 voters in the mountains and in Bel-Buda who voted for me in the elections on 3 April. I am trying to earn this trust, and I am also trying to represent those who may have given their vote to someone else, and I would also like to suggest to my fellow Members that they do the same. I am in a special situation, as several of my fellow Members are from the mountains or from Bel-Buda, and, I think, also from the Minister and the Prime Minister. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: We have not seen it so far.]] I would also encourage them, if they also live in my constituency, to come to me with confidence. [[Dr. István Simicskó: Definitely. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I believe that politics is based on representation and that the place of representation in parliamentary democracies is Parliament itself. This Parliament should be in Hungary. This is why today's debate is so important, because today's proposal is also about discussing our common affairs here, or we will give up the possibility of this with said reasons. Dear fellow Members, Before we go into the debate, when it comes to the emergency, we, the Members and activists of the Momentum, would first of all like to express our thanks and gratitude to health workers who have worked to save lives during the epidemic. And if we are talking about Russian aggression next door, first of all, thanks and thanks to civil society organisations and churches, as well as local governments, who have been helping refugees, fleeing families, from the first day of Russian aggression. Unfortunately, while the Hungarian people are struggling first with the epidemic, then the economic crisis, then the hardships caused by the war, here my fellow Members of Parliament, under the leadership of Minister Judit Varga, are preparing for the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law, once called granite-solid. We decide to give the government two more reasons to declare an emergency in Hungary and to continue with that regulation governance, who knows for how long. We believe that Hungarians do not need another emergency, not another regulation government, not power building, but security. They want to keep their loved ones safe during a pandemic, and even when an aggressive great power is starting a conquering war in our neighborhood. They want their standard of living safe, for which they worked hard, for which they wanted to keep their savings safe, which they could put aside. The government should be working on this instead of on-going emergencies. We understand that it is important for the government that Hungarian people are constantly afraid of something. This is why, since 2015, the crisis of illegal immigration has been maintained without interruption, regardless of the fact that 2, 20 or 20 000 immigrants arrived at the fence every week over the last few years. That's why they're alarming me with imaginary dangers every year with a different poster campaign, and that's why they're starting to talk about the introduction of a general military commitment. I hope it's not because they want to introduce it, it's because people are afraid. [[Dr. István Simicskó: You could use it.]] Because it's always easier to control someone who's scared, always easier to squeeze down their throats, tightening their rights, tightening them. The government wants us to be afraid of going to work every day with an upset stomach, thinking that the Russians can turn off the gas, and when they return home, there may not be any electricity in the apartment if we are afraid to open the envelope from the bank, how much the debt has increased if we are worried about the sale paper, how much the tomato has increased since last week. They want us to be afraid so that they can say with their swords drawn that they are right to be afraid, but here we are to protect you. They want to protect you from the dangers that should not have happened under good governance. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Fence?]] A good government prevents trouble. And the really good government has a government where people do not always need the help of the state, the protection of the state, because they live in health, prosperity and security. The fact that Hungarian people live in fear is not good for anyone but the government. No one in this country wants to be afraid, no matter what you believe, who you trust, or which party you voted for. Dear Parliament, We in the Momentum want peace, tranquility and security in Hungary. We want people to stop being afraid of something, and we think that a government with a two-thirds majority has a prominent and clear responsibility. It is not the government's job to maintain an emergency, but to put an end to it. If the government also wants Hungarian people not to be afraid, it should not be concerned about the excuses it can use to declare and create new emergencies, but to work on how to guarantee the safety, livelihood and well-being of Hungarian people. There's plenty of work to do. We all feel the impact of the economic crisis. The government must curb the price increase, restore the state budget that has been completely overturned, help the victims of the economic crisis, small businesses in distress, and immediately begin to eliminate the Russian exposure of our country. These are the real tasks facing the country, none of which require emergency maintenance and regulation governance. These do not require the maintenance of an emergency. The only reason we need to maintain this emergency is for you to remain unscrupulous in legal and political terms. What is needed, however, is the re-opening of EU money taps, which have been closed for almost a year. We need to bring home the EU funds that are due to Hungary, but we will not be able to get to them until the government complies with EU rules. This is how all communities work: if you do not follow the rules, you cannot benefit from it. Moreover, these rules, honourable Members, such as the Lisbon Treaty, have been adopted by you, not by Brussels, not by Soros, not by others, but by you. We therefore call on the Government to take steps to restart EU aid as soon as possible instead of wasting time on unnecessary fundamental law amendments. We understand that the government may have given up access to EU funds right away, we understand that the government is trying to overcome the shortage of these funds and the economic problems by releasing inflation, by desecrating Hungarian small businesses, by reducing our cities. And we also understand that the announcement of emergency and regulation governance is actually designed to continue with these restrictions. But we are asking the government to start working on bringing home the EU funds due to Hungary as soon as possible and spending them on Hungarian people, well-functioning hospitals, high-quality schools and secure livelihoods instead of reducing restrictions, reducing small Hungarian businesses, distressing local governments and emergency situations. [[11.50]] Momentum will be a partner of the government in this, because it is in the interest of the whole country, regardless of the political side, to obtain EU funds in a short time. Ladies and gentlemen, These are the really important issues, which we should be dealing with today, but instead the government is dealing with fundamental law-alterers. So be it, so be it. Let's go over the basic law amendment. First of all, this amendment is unnecessary. The objectives set out in the statement of reasons can be effectively managed without declaring an emergency, extending the scope of emergency situations only serves and aims at removing regulation governance for as long as possible. Secondly, this amendment is a cause for abuse and we have seen an example of this. In many cases, the government has already expanded beyond the provisions concerning the epidemic situation giving concrete reasons for an emergency. To highlight just one example for you, green land constructions, which are also a daily problem in my constituency, have also made real estate investments easier under the cover of the corona virus. What do the two have to do with each other? I'm asking you. Thirdly, this amendment, as has already been said, is an anti-democratic blank cheque for the government to extend the emergency situation further as it pleases, to extend emergency options and to do as it pleases. That is practically what this amendment is about. It is not enough for you to have two thirds of Parliament, which is equal to full power, we all know that, but regulation governance is even faster, even more secretive, which is why I would like to continue this; it is anti-democratic, but it is faster. This is the continuing elimination of the system of brakes and counterweights. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The reason for its continued elimination is that, unfortunately, this process did not start today, the Fundamental Law already does not prevent the exercise of central power. It is likely that the draft will, however, be voted by the Fidesz Members, I think, then they will all come in, but in a European democracy, the minimum expectation would be that there should be legislative barriers to the exercise of central power. It would be elegant for you to have some kind of self-limitation so that, for example, the Parliament can always decide on the time limit and do not give this power of decision to the executive authority, as they do now, in Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law, but must always resubmit this claim to Parliament. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) For example, the various specific public-law situations, which are commonly referred to as a special legal order, are a state of emergency, a state of emergency, a threat of terrorism and, finally, the essence of the emergency situation is that the State can operate within the limits it has set itself. Logically, therefore, a constitutional institution governing a special legal order should be created by the legislator in such a way that it finds a problem that does not allow the rule of law to operate within a constitutional framework for the benefit of the common good, we do not see this problem now; 2. it defines the means which it needs in order to overcome the obstacles caused by the problem; 3. it fixes the use of the instruments for constitutional guarantees, at least with the obligation to review the conditions regularly; 4. then this whole package is named and codified in the special legal systems. That's pretty much the last thing I did, the first three didn't. Compared to this, we can see that the government is trying to maintain a toolbox of more wounds in its emergency institutions, which are already bleeding from a lot of wounds, for some reason. In this case, it is not possible to refer to a future epidemic, as when regulating the details of emergency legislation in the event of an epidemic, that is, that József Szájer, on the Brussels train, did not think of a future epidemic, since the Fundamental Law had already adopted a clause on the war situation. An extraordinary state may be declared by two thirds of Parliament in the event of a declaration of state of war or a direct threat to the armed attack of foreign power, in the event of a war risk, Article 48 (1). The fact that we are here today and we can debate this amendment is the best evidence of why this amendment is unnecessary. Even the Parliament can meet. The Russian aggression next door has caused grave casualties, but it has not created conditions that would cause us to disrupt our country's constitutional legal order. Dear Parliament, Nearly two million people have specifically entrusted us with representing them in Parliament. Compared to this, do you expect us to give up our first decision and voluntarily hand over this right and duty to you? No! It is your job to consult Parliament and report to Parliament. We do not agree to be governed by their decrees from Carmelita in such a situation. Remember, you've been fooled by Putin at least twice. For the first time, when they thought the Prime Minister was going on a peace mission and barely came home from the war, and for the second time, when he did not want the promised peace to be born on 9 May. Believe me, it will be better for everyone if we discuss these matters together. We want to strengthen Hungary's growing weakening position. Don't try to govern me with regulations now. This is what you and our constituents deserve. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum, Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2022-05-10-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zsolt Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, What Miklós Dawn just said, there was a lot of truth in that, too, I'm his voter... [[Nacsa Lawrence: We don't!]] I had no doubt about that, with respect; although then he agreed to the mistake I presumed to have made by having a professional debate on an issue with which he had very well established why it should not be debated afterwards. I respectfully note that the decision has been made, that you have every opportunity, responsibility with your three million voters and two thirds, so let us not make a real debate here on this issue. However, it would be good to continue doing this, as it could be discussed professionally, that the possibility of armed conflict, war situation or humanitarian disaster in a very well-sounding neighbouring country, which is also objective in how to incorporate it into the Hungarian legal system. However, this debate would make sense if it were not decidedly voted in the next period, but, above all, if this emergency situation were not to be brought into the Hungarian legal system in support of a regulation that smells of sweat. Therefore, it is not really worth discussing this professionally, not only because of the two thirds and because it is decided that this will be voted on, but also because, in the last year and a half, no guarantee rules have been laid down that coronal virus epidemic measures do not cover, for example, the destruction of municipalities or the intimidation of journalistic society. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] or even restrict the right of assembly. So you're out of that frame. If that were not the case, but there would be guarantee rules, then there would be a sensible debate here on what to do with the situation that goes beyond the significance of the Balkan war, and there are almost World War II scenes in Mariupol. But by proving in the last year and a half that this framework is not being used for what is or should be objective, it is not being used primarily because it cannot be claimed that nothing has been done in connection with the coronal virus epidemic during the emergency. What they did was good and part of it was very bad, but the main problem is not that, because these are professional issues and there is a place for professional debates. The main issue is that there are guarantees that regulation governance covers measures that do not or do not relate to the war situation. The past year and a half has shown that you have abused what you might have had and what you couldn't have. Therefore, it should not appear that there is a professional debate going on here, for this reason, because otherwise it would be justified, and the keynote speech should be about conflicting professional positions. But the reason why we can't do this, I will say it again, is not only because it is decided in advance that this is going to go through so much experience here after 12 years, but because you are not willing to argue about how guarantee rules could be put in this procedural order, which does not allow you to step out of a particular situation that has nothing to do with the war situation, the humanitarian disaster, the relief and assistance of a possible wave of refugees. If you were to use this new situation to do so, you would have to have and continue a very sensible debate here. But believe me, the facts of the past year and a half show that such a debate is simply not possible at present. We would very much like to believe that you are learning from how to not abuse the fourth two thirds. If such a situation occurs, there will be room for substantive speeches and substantive debates. Until this is done, until minimum confidence is restored, these are formal contributions, which speak of nothing but political declarations. [[12.00]] Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot hold a substantive debate either, but calls attention to the fact that it is still not too late to expect guarantees to be incorporated, so that it is clear that such a new emergency situation is related to the particular case, and not usually to the extension of the regulation governance of Hungarian society, which is a very convenient position, since it is logical, much faster and effective to operate the system that was placed on us 12 years ago in this form. Yeah, and the answer to that is that the voters wanted it that way. I'm sure the electorate didn't discuss how the new emergency framework would be broadened, nor did it discuss how this option would be abused. We want a professional debate, but it's up to you when the time will come. We want guarantees that regulation governance does not go beyond what is necessary and necessary. If the Minister comes with such a proposal [[Dr. Judit Varga: He's here.]] Then we'll be very happy to argue. Unfortunately, this lacks guarantees. It is not a matter of discussing the need for a new emergency situation that could be debated, but since there are no guarantees, this keynote speech will end because of your soothing and time-saving. We ask you to consider that in these next weeks, you can still put in guarantees and increase the confidence that there should not be pointless parliamentary meetings in this sense. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-05-10-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr László Toroczkai, the lead speaker of the group of our countries, who will give his speech on the platform, we will wait for the leader of the group to arrive. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2022-05-10-49	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I predict that the Hungarian Movement does not support either the amendment of the Fundamental Law or the announcement of a new emergency, and there are many reasons for this, but I would like to highlight the main reasons here today. The most important reason is that we already have experience, so the emergency announced in connection with Covid has taught us that this emergency is in fact a political trick, not in the interests of the people of Hungary and not of Hungary. Again, I could give you a number of examples, but I'll mention one or two. This kind of political trick has actually served to abuse power over the past period, and we do not see any statistical statement, data showing that this kind of special legal order would have protected the Hungarian population from the so-called Covid than in countries where such a special, special legal order has not been proclaimed. But let me give you one or two more specific examples, because not only did the government abuse this special legal order, but many mayors abused it at the time, I can say that my mayor-colleague abused this emergency. For example, there was the Fidesz mayor of Szekszárd, who used the emergency to increase his power locally, for example, when he took the local newspaper into his own hands or when he alone accepted the budget he had put forward. The same was done by the Fidesz mayor of Komló, and in a series I could say even the pro-government mayor of Nagykanizsa, who used the emergency for political repression, i.e. the special legal order. But before the picture is complete, let me mention that perhaps the worst, most brutal abuse of such power was committed by the mayor of Érd, who is the mayor of the now united Balliberal side, opposition side, i.e. DK, Jobbik, MSZP I am trying to list, the Dialogue, Momentum, let me know who else I have missed. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Our homeland!]] So it was their mayor that, one day before the end of the emergency, he adopted 46 decisions which he could have adopted a few days later, either with the board or with the general meeting, which he quickly did in one person. I would like to point out that the mayors of our country have not abused this special legal order, and I personally, as mayor, have suspended any serious decision that I could have taken alone, but we have taken it only with the body of representatives. There has been no political retaliation in the settlement we run, nor a serious decision concerning our assets. So it turns out that the emergency in Hungary is a political trick that the government side is using and this Balliberian united opposition is also living with. The Hungarian Movement, on the other hand, does not want such abuses; it does not want this kind of abuse of power to become a root here in Hungary, because it was possible to refer to Covid earlier, and now it is possible to refer to the war in Ukraine; I do not know what the next, perhaps the climate crisis or space disaster, could be such an endless political trick that could serve the abuse of power by politicians. This is, therefore, the main reason why we are opposed to this particular legal order in the first place. The other is the specific issue, namely the war in Ukraine, and to do so, we need to look at what war is going on next door, how this is a threat to Hungary and how Hungary can be dragged into this war. Perhaps it has not yet been said here in the Chamber, but the Mi Hazank Movement if, thanks to its constituents, it has come to Parliament to draw attention to the fact that the Ukrainian war, not merely, is not an ethnic or ethnic conflict, where Ukrainians and Russians are not at war with each other on the basis of some many centuries-old, very deeply rooted conflict or hostility, but it is an artificially created war, because up to ten or twenty years ago, the same people who now want to slaughter each other had no problem with each other, because we are talking about peoples with very common cultural, religious and linguistic roots. However, at the end of 2013 it became clear that this artificial war, which had already been prepared at the end of 2013, was planned by global oligarchs, financial circles, as we would say, after Endre Ady, by free, pig-headed lords, since at the end of 2013 the uprising in Maidan Square was already clear that oligarchs and embassies of states that, in the case of a normal revolution or uprising, obviously had nothing to look for in the thickness of the events. Then, in 2014, the forces, whether foreign or Ukrainian, were clearly visible, and in 2015-2016, as is usually the case with the coups, uprisings and revolutions generated from the outside, the revolution devoured the children of each other, these oligarchs fell at each other's throats, in particular, in 2013, Porosenko and the oligarchs opposing him. For example, there was Ihor Kolomoisky, whose bank, PrivatBank, was nationalized in 2016 by the Poroseenkos, who claimed that billions of dollars were embezzled there; we are talking about virtually criminals or half-criminals who are behind the current war. The same Kolomoysky personally participated in the arming of the armed group and the paramilitary groups still holding themselves there, in that particular steel plant in Mariupol, from 2014 onwards, and it is indeed about the sharing, business interests, the interests of Ukraine and international and global financial circles that this war is about. It is important to clarify this in order to see why this kind of special legal order or emergency is not needed, because Hungary is not part of the plan in this global or Ukrainian fight, in the fight against the Oligarchs, because, in the past decades, Hungary's politics has done everything to make Hungary a poor country, and many people should not even apply for the treasures that we have lost in the last hundred or 150 years, partly because of world political events that are happening around Ukraine. But perhaps this is what teaches and teaches us that we must stay out of the wars generated by such global circles of business or even oligarchs, because similar things happened during the First World War, and perhaps we can say with a calm heart that the Hungarians, just Hungary, became the sufferer of the first world war at the time, which, of course, was not triggered by the launch of Gavrilo Princip, but by the same oligarchs, as was the case with global corporations, entrepreneurs and capital clashes, as could, of course, generate a third world war from all that is happening in Ukraine. [[12.10]] That is why we need to maintain our sobriety, and that is why we need to identify exactly what is going on behind the Ukrainian war. If we see that Hungary has not been noticed in this war, then Hungary better not draw attention to itself, even by provocation. We would consider this kind of emergency a provocation, an unnecessary provocation that is not justified by anything. Neither Ukraine nor the NATO behind the Ukrainians, the United States of America, Ukrainian and international pig-headed lords should be provoked, nor should Russia be provoked. Then, as we have seen with regard to Covid, when, in fact, everyone who has been involved in professional disputes was aware that under the Health Act, Hungarians could have been protected in the same way as in the emergency that you invented, I say that Hungary could be protected without such an emergency. For example, if Hungary and the Government of Hungary were to withdraw the government decision that made it possible and even invited NATO to Hungary for NATO combat groups to march here in Hungary, they should make Hungary a target that is not, by the way, a target. Or, for example, instead of declaring an emergency, it would be much more helpful for Hungary if the government changed its previous position, which we believe is very dangerous and very harmful, when it supported Ukraine's almost immediate accession to the European Union. We see that it is not only a highly corrupt, dangerous country with its oligarchs who have built a private army in Mariupol, for example, as the aforementioned Ihor Kolomoisky would have the European Union, but it is also simply a matter of rebuilding Ukraine. If the Hungarian Government supports this crazy idea of bringing Ukraine into the European Union almost unconditionally and almost immediately, then this also means that we will have to pay for the restoration and reconstruction of Ukraine, while these global large companies, this capital, the companies behind the World Economic Forum, will benefit from this reconstruction, and we will be the net contributors to this reconstruction. So if the government really wants to protect Hungary, it should deviate from these provocations or from these harmful measures and government decisions, and it should urgently change its position. Dear Parliament, According to our country's Movement, there is no need for an emergency, but for neutrality. Here is the example of Switzerland or Austria. Neighbouring country Austria, we share a historical heritage with Austria, and we have many connections with the Austrians. Ask them for advice, that's exactly what I'm doing this week. Ask Austrian politicians how to preserve the country's security and protection even without NATO. The Hungarian Movement will support the government in developing, for example, the Hungarian army. As we have said for a very long time, and I have just heard these days that maybe Fidesz will hear this part of our program and this message that, for example, the food industry needs to be rebuilt, not declared an emergency. After all, there is a food crisis, and in fact the food crisis has already come to Hungary in a sense, so this is what the war in Ukraine is threatening to do right now and not with bombs if we do not provoke either the fighting parties, NATO, the United States of America or even Russia. So all such measures will be supported by the Hungarian Movement, the reconstruction of the food industry, the development of agriculture, the pursuit of self-sufficiency or, for example, the development of the Hungarian military industry, which would also be greatly needed. We will support such plans and measures in the direction of independence and neutrality, but we will reject the emergency and the amendment of the basic law in this regard. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-10-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue is Mr Bence Tordai, Head of the Group, who is also speaking on the platform. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Citizens, Dear Parliament, It is very instructive to know how the Fidesz government will start its work in the new parliamentary term. By chance, he is not dealing with people's real problems, but is again working to concentrate his own power, to support the propaganda he has been doing over the past twelve years and to legalize instead of creating meaningful solutions. There is an emergency in Hungary. For example, the livelihood crisis is very dangerous, many at a monthly level are threatened by the ability to pay their bills, the ability to put enough food on the family's table when we see that 20-30 percent of food prices in shops are increasing, and when we see that this is no way to keep pace with the increase in earnings, pensions or social benefits, if any. There is such an emergency when we consider that health care, for example, is getting closer to collapse, and it is, in fact, only maintaining an emergency that will prevent it from happening, as it can be ordered to do so. that those underpaid and eviscerated workers who are now the insurance of Hungarian patient care, but who are looking forward to it, or many of whom were looking forward to the 31st of May to finally get rid of the oppression and the no-lookin' job situation that you are giving them. And there is a danger if you look at the fact that the social sphere is in a similar state of collapse or in many areas of public services that are generally tried to maintain with public employees. But there is a danger when we look at you doing nothing about the climate and ecological crisis. There is a danger, when it has become more clear now that the exposure to Russian fossil energy that you have done nothing to eradicate over the past twelve years is pushing Hungary into what a serious dependency it is, and it is not only limiting Hungary's margin of movement fatally, but also making it difficult for Europe as a whole to fully use the most effective means, the toolbox of economic sanctions, against Putin and the Russian army of aggression. This irresponsibleness, this carelessness, this unfinished work that we have seen of you in the last twelve years has resulted in Hungary not only making progress in terms of energy independence, energy self-sufficiency, but on the contrary, the dictator Putin's dependence on Russia is even more serious, it is indeed an emergency, and its remedy would indeed require immediate intervention. But by chance, you are not dealing with these problems with your first submitted bill, but you are lawyering and serving your own propaganda, and that you can continue to run the country through regulations without any restrictions, while you are absolutely certain that no electorate has been asked or authorized to do so. Even though the minister's pious words and the Vulgar Philosophy treatise do not cover the fact that they are preparing for further construction of the illegitimate Fundamental Law. [[Intercoms, including Nacsa Lőrinc: That's what you swore. The president's ringing the bell.]] Perhaps the most reasonable example is that now, when the 10th amendment of the basic law is to be put into effect, even the ninth amendment of the basic law has not been put into effect, which is also about the various extraordinary legal orders. It is quite amusing that the amendment that will come into force next summer is now being amended on the basis of some incredible urgency to quote the Minister once again, in order to make effective and quick decision-making, with 76 days ago the war broke out, and apparently there was no need for such a fundamental act to be able to deal with the situations in this respect well and badly, but rather badly. [[12.20]] We have seen, for example, that the state stepped on the field of action rather late when it was necessary to provide for refugees. This task was carried out by volunteers, civilians, civil society organisations, social movements, not to mention local governments, with great respect and great thanks to them. The government failed in this area, but not because there was no crisis at the time, it was an emergency government, and with regulations they could have solved anything, but because they simply lacked knowledge, talent, and no will. It is also very touching, Minister, that you must take action to deal with refugees, to reduce economic damage and to protect families, and this would require a fundamental amendment, but apparently, as you imagine, at least, these have been done so far. Economic damage, let us say, was least moderate, for example, there was no VAT reduction, there was no extraordinary social benefits increase, there was no, there will be, and there will be insufficient pension increases, there has been no wage increases among public employees or only to a much lower level of inflation, there is no support for the fight of trade unions when it comes to wage increases or when it comes to keeping jobs. So, apparently, you do not want or can not reduce the economic damage; there have been some price freezes, and that is the best and best that the government has had in recent months. So, apparently, it is not in the service of these objectives that we need to amend the basic law, and let us say that there is no need to amend the basic law. The only reason we do not support this amendment and this new extraordinary mandate is because our experience so far clearly shows that the more powerful you have, the more you abuse this power. In recent times, during the reigning period, a number of regulations have been passed, a number of laws have been repealed that were not related to the control of the epidemic, and it is suspicious that they would continue to act in the same way in the next period in the case of legislative amendments that are not related to the war in our neighbourhood, and regulation governance is expected. Let us just remember that restrictions on the right of assembly, for example, obviously did not serve to protect against the epidemic, and certainly did not serve to limit the right to strike or to defend against the epidemic, as it was absurd to hold a national election and referendum, but a local referendum or interim local elections could not be held in your emergency. Similarly, the abuse of law, the abuse of regulation governance, was the fact that the deadline for replying to a demand for data of general interest was extended; this is only good for secrecy and nothing else. In the same way, funds were transferred to the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line and the whole project was encrypted. They also abused the right and, instead of supporting them, took away their car tax revenues, the parking revenues, the so-called solidarity tax that hit them, and prevented them from increasing their revenue. So, while the municipalities have taken on an additional task of protecting themselves against the epidemic, you have abused regulation governance and made it difficult for the municipalities to cope. Similarly, a harsh example of abusive legislation is the creation of a special economic zone, which was later also made legal practice, but we know that the first regulation for the benefit of the Samsung plant in Göd, limiting the rights and opportunities of local people and the opportunities and revenues of Göd's municipality, was also issued with reference to emergency situations. But in the same way, the construction ban imposed by the capital city was abolished by clearly having nothing to do with the Covid epidemic, simply abusing the authority you gave yourself. The protests of the University of Theatre and Film Arts were also broken by using unlawful, illegal means, abusing this authority. This is how the semester was abolished, so the Chancellor was appointed there, and in the same way in the context of economic crisis management, the Fidesz oligarchs were filled with new and new public money tens of billions. By abusing this opportunity, they transferred huge assets to their own foundations, their own sports associations and their vassalized churches, to the hunting exhibition or even to the Eucharistic Congress, so they applauded many tens of billions of forints of public money. So that's why there's no trust in you. After seeing the abuse of the earlier emergency mandate, it is quite clear that no one in the opposition could support it with a good heart or in any other way. It is quite certain that the Dialogue will not vote in favour of this proposal here in Parliament. If this were really important to you, if it were important not to use this opportunity for party political matches, this opportunity, but perhaps to attempt to establish a national consensus, a consensus, then it would obviously be simple to do so: to accept our earlier proposals for constitutional guarantees, for example, that, as the Constitutional Court is able to decide on election matters within a few days, the same could be required in the case of an extremely legal order with the rule of... So we just came out of this sentence to control the application of the law to regulation governance. [[Defiance.]] So, if you really want to have a national consensus over or behind this, then you have nothing to do but to ensure those transparency and control functions, which, of course, you do not even have to promise. And what is really alarming in this story is that they created a rubber paragraph by, in fact, extending the extension of this emergency to any length of time on account of the humanitarian situation, so, ultimately, it is not defined what the humanitarian disaster in a neighbouring country means exactly, for example, there will obviously be a humanitarian disaster in a blown-out Ukraine for years, and basic public services cannot be guaranteed, and the basic needs of people can not be met. If you, referring to such a situation, maintained regulation governance throughout the parliamentary term, then, frankly, Parliament's work would make less sense than it has been before, since you can publish a resolution in the Hungarian Gazette overnight, and from then on the legislative work will actually lose its meaning. So I'm sure you can't count on us to support that. If you're gonna go through with this, I want you to have a good time on your own. Thank you.
u2022-05-10-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member, former leader of the LMP Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Madam Secretary, Well, it was instructive to listen to the Minister's exposé and then ten keynote speeches. Thus, as the last speaker in this round, I am in a comfortable position to already know the views of the various parties and to respond to this. I think, arguing with some of my fellow Members, that this debate goes far beyond the proposal that lies before the Parliament. I'm very pleased to say that this is a special moment for the Minister to tell you about her exposé, and now she's sitting through the debate. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The model champion of democracy!]] I would also like to respond relatively in detail to the expo we have heard, and to the thoughts from which we otherwise agree at the level of spoken words. I would like to clarify right from the beginning what the opinion of the Green Party of Hungary is about the concrete presentation; I think we can settle this relatively quickly. During the coronal virus epidemic, we supported with our vote all measures to preserve the safety of the Hungarian people, and in this situation and in the future, if such a situation ever occurs, we will, of course, vote for these important measures. However, in many cases the government has not lived, but has abused the authority given by the extraordinary legal order, the means of regulation governance, and we will therefore not support this kind of amendment of the basic law. And then moving on to the very important thoughts that Madam Minister had said in her introduction. [[12.30]] He said, Minister Judit Varga, that we are facing the extraordinary challenges of extraordinary times, and that we have also heard from pro-government politicians, Prime Minister, the wording that we are living in dangerous, critical times and that we have a critical, dangerous decade ahead of us. We agree perfectly with this, and I think that you have experienced it here, in Parliament, in other forums and not only in the last cycle, but also in the past, that we have talked a lot about these global challenges, we, the Greens, have drawn attention to this, and we have very often stated why Hungary's self-determination and self-sufficiency must be strengthened and established in order to meet these challenges. She spoke quite rightly of the fact that the representation of national interests is above all else; she spoke about the need to protect the security of Hungarian people against global challenges, against the various conflicts, the interests of the Hungarian nation; she spoke about the importance of protecting families; she spoke about the protection of Hungarian communities abroad, and she also spoke about Hungary's self-determination, not literally, but in its content. Well, with these, I repeat, we agree perfectly only on the level of spoken words, but we cannot go along with the fact that, while the government has placed these important passwords on its flag in the last cycle and in recent cycles, during the past parliamentary years, it has not made its decisions in this direction, so it has not acted accordingly, and I will now list many cases, when it has taken decisions contrary to this, and indeed it has not supported Hungary's self-determination, but it has served Hungary up to the great interests and has delivered the natural treasures of Hungary and the Hungarian nation. I think it is very important to point out that, in the current situation, when deciding on the different sanctions policies, we have a clear position, so we do not support measures, sanctions that put the Hungarian economy in an impossible position with regard to short-term measures. So in the short term, I can say that there is agreement. We can also say that with all its means and all its power, a government must work to ensure that this period of critical crisis and the current challenges that are seen next door, the spill-over effects of these will be as little as possible to the Hungarian people. And I can also say very firmly that we are on the side of peace, and I think that every party in this place is on the side of peace. At the same time, we have to say that this government has not acted for the self-determination of Hungary, has made many wrong decisions, and is about to make further bad decisions that put Hungary in a more vulnerable position. Several of my fellow Members have underlined that over the past long years the Government of Hungary has done nothing to increase Hungary's energy security, the government calling itself national, has not taken action to achieve energy independence, they have even acted contrary to it, and they have made Hungary more vulnerable in recent cycles, and they are starting to take measures of this kind. There is a need to intervene here, and I believe that the government must be self-examined. The secretary started her expo with a quote from Fukuyama. Two decades ago, Francis Fukuyama made mistakes that we disagreed with. At the same time, Minister, we have seen that he, for example, has been able to correct himself, so he has acknowledged a lot of errors. The question is that the government is able to face its own mistakes and correct its own policy. We can help you to do this in a way that outlines the way we are going to follow, and in that context, of course, we will support all the right decisions in the interests of the Hungarian people, but at the same time we will be harshly drawing attention to decisions that we believe are contrary to the interests of the Hungarian nation. The Hungarian government calls itself a national and considers national self-determination to be important in principle, but at the same time we have seen a lot of measures when serving the profits of global companies, multinationals, was the basic and to be followed-up line leader in the government's decisions. So we could see that at any time this government was able to kneel before serving the profits of multi-business companies. We have seen many examples, and we have had debates not only in domestic politics but also in international politics, that the government has been able to support free trade agreements at any time without specific defence mechanisms, without conditions; therefore free trade agreements that would mean further surrender of our national sovereignty, where appropriate, the supply of Hungarian workers, the self-determination of local governments, and the supply of the natural treasures of the Hungarian nation. We've seen many such decisions, Madam Secretary. I think it's the exact opposite of what we heard from you today. The government calls itself family-friendly, and many really important measures have been taken, and their family support programme has many elements that we naturally consider very important and to be supported, but in the past decade, it is difficult to call a government under which hundreds of thousands of forced leave the country, and so thousands of families have split up, and I think it is difficult to call it a family-friendly and national government. I have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that the most serious challenge for the Hungarian nation is that this emigration has been achieved, and then I have received a completely cynical response from your State Secretarys that there is no problem with emigration, because the common European labour market is only working. I believe that this is a very, very bad approach, and that the performance of all governments in the longer term can be assessed on the basis of its ability to ensure the conditions for remaining in the homeland, and this government can be subject to a lot of criticism. Obviously, in addition to emigration, my fellow Members have already referred to this in many areas, the labour shortage is simply so brutal that it threatens to collapse in certain sectors. Just recently, in the case of firefighters, we have heard how huge, how strained the shortage of workers is, and how serious it is to replace firefighters. I think that this is something that the government should see, and here, too, must acknowledge the mistakes of previous years, of previous cycles, and we need a huge correction. Once again, it is not the self-determination of Hungary that measures allow the infrastructure of the countryside to be destroyed. I have drawn attention to this very many times, showing details and numbers, and I do not wish to do this for a long time, but I can tell you that until this government, with the enormous mandate that is now in place, takes substantial steps to improve and create the capacity to maintain the population in the countryside in this way, i.e. by restoring and maintaining the infrastructure, it does not correspond to the passwords mentioned by the Minister. Some examples: today in Hungary there are 17 thousand kilometres of public roads in the wrong and the wrong category, and this number increases year after year simply because the government refuses to accept this problem, refuses to recognise it and refuses to provide sufficient resources to solve this problem. It seems to be a rather banal example that the government has spent even more on the hunting exhibition than in a whole year to renovate and repair the rural side roads within the Hungarian village programme. I believe that this is certainly not about the policy of a national government and not of a country-supporting government. However, we should also mention the most important public service, the issue of drinking water supply, as this sector is now practically on the brink of collapse in Hungary. And it can be seen that the problems are getting worse, so since 2011, the number of failures has doubled, and today there is about 20 percent of the proportion of water systems with an adequate rating; there is an amazing degree of leakage; and the various estimates put the missing resources between 1500 and 3000 billion forints to ensure the most important public service, i.e. the provision of healthy drinking water and sanitation, the protection of Hungarian water bases. Again, this does not show and underline the strengthening of Hungary and not the guarantee of Hungary's self-determination. The destruction of the environmental institutional system is a serious problem for this government's activities in the last cycle. My fellow Member mentioned the example of Göd here with regard to priority government economic zones. Here we have seen a very, very exclusive, serious example of environmental destruction and the state of the environmental institutional system, as civilians had to order an independent water sampling and measurement that showed that chemicals used for battery production appeared in several wells water samples. Once again, it is only the government's fault and the government's failures that can be drawn to attention. It was a completely amazing and irresponsible series of steps, again from the point of view of Hungary's energy security and energy supply, that, let alone the government's support, but prohibited and hindered the spread of renewable energies. We do know that the use of solar energy has been taxed and that wind energy has been effectively banned by this government, so that no valid professional argument can be made in this respect. Here, it seems to me that nuclear power, which can be described as your fetish, was intended to be omnipotence and the only alternative that exists. [[12.40]] But I think you can now see how much damage was caused here by the measure taken about a decade ago. I very much hope that this measure and many other wrong steps will be corrected and that wind energy will be allowed to be used in Hungary. I would like to talk very briefly about the issue of migration. This was mentioned not only by Minister, but also by pro-government speakers. I think that the position that has been raised on migration is infinitely cynical, because neither in domestic politics nor in the European political arena have partners been involved in the deep exploration of the real causes of migration. In this way, it was not possible for Europe to take a meaningful action together against climate change, climate change, environmental destruction or even a reduction in the potential of agricultural production, so to participate in a common policy. And in the meantime, we have seen about 20,000 people being brought into the country with the residency bond programme linked to the name of Minister Antal Rogán, without any substantive control. And another reference to the past period. It can be seen that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the Hungarian government are very fond of close friendships with eastern despots, dictators who cannot be mentioned in any way among the defenders of Christian Europe or friends of Christian Europe. For example, we can refer to President Erdoğan, for whom it can be said that he is trying to use the Turkish minority in Europe as practically a political weapon. He has repeatedly called on them not to be integrated into European society. I think it is essential to draw the attention of a government calling itself a Christian and a national to such serious mistakes and mistakes. So if the government, Minister and Prime Minister are serious about living in a time of danger and Hungary needs to strengthen self-determination and self-sufficiency, then we must support not only a patriot, self-sufficient economic policy in words but also in actions. So instead of supplying cheap Chinese, Far Eastern or remote mass products, instead of building infrastructure from Hungarian taxpayers' money, local production or regional cooperation must be supported. In any case, Hungary's exposure to energy supply must be reduced, and on this issue it must be supported in a cutting-edge manner not by banning, punishing, not by making it impossible, but by supporting the spread and use of renewable energy sources. An economic policy philosophy must be implemented that reduces Hungary's energy exposure in the long term. It is therefore in any case the creation of higher value added jobs, which is a social, economic and environmental way for Hungary. We couldn't see this either, or we could see very, very little action. There is a fundamental need for a transport reform in Hungary that has been promised many times over the last many cycles, but it has never been implemented, because in transport policy and in new systems public transport, it would be an enormous opportunity to optimise and reduce the use of energy in Hungary. It must be protected, the natural resources and the natural resources of the Hungarian nation must be preserved, because if we do not do this, we cannot talk about Hungary's self-determination. I would also respond very briefly to the thoughts on nuclear energy, partly to what the Minister said. I thought there was a strange contradiction in the Minister's exposé and what we've been hearing from the government over the last few weeks and months. Madam Secretary, you seem to have faced the green future and the use of nuclear power. This confrontation is certainly understandable, and we agree with that, but at the same time confronting the green future with energy security is a serious and strategic mistake, I think. Nuclear energy and specifically this now Paks II. a project called "the project" is mentioned in such a way that it will in some way increase Hungary's energy security, energy self-determination and energy supply; it is a serious mistake. I can agree with the fact that the Minister no longer lists this as green energy, because anyone who knows how brutal and irreparable environmental destructions of uranium mining are cannot call nuclear energy green energy. Anyone who knows precisely that the final disposal of high-activity radioactive waste could not be solved anywhere in the world can not say that nuclear energy is green energy. So I feel that the Minister's position is perhaps approaching the green position on this issue. After what has happened in Ukraine recently, how the Russians have ignored all the written and unwritten rules on the use of nuclear power, moving forward with the Paks II project, that is serious irresponsible. It's more than a mistake, it's a serious irresponsible thing on the part of the government. This is also underlined by the words of former Secretary of State Attila Aszódi, former Commissioner of the Government, who called the military attack on nuclear power plants and nuclear installations practically unforgivable, carried out by the Russians. And Attila Aszódi asked how to accept on a moral basis that the Russians carry on this project. I'd like to clear up a misunderstanding right now. As a green party, we do not support nuclear energy in the first place, we do not consider it a green, safe or cheap energy source. So we do not have the primary problem of who is making such a nuclear investment in Hungary, but we cannot go past the terrible developments that have taken place in Ukraine. We also need to see that this project itself presents a great deal of risk in terms of the fact that Rosatom is apparently unable to comply with domestic and European standards, so it is unable to place on the table, either in its quality or in its content, authorisation documentation that meets these challenges, which is in the interests of the Hungarian people. Nor could they answer such questions as earthquake security, for we know that a nuclear power plant is being designed in an active break zone, and I add that it could not be launched under Russian law, so this site could not have been authorised. In any case, it can be said that in this way we can strengthen our exposure and our dependence on Russia, based on gigantic Russian credit, Russian technology and Russian fuel, there is no way that Hungary's energy independence can be founded on this is a mistake. Here, too, we are very confident that the government will be able to make some sort of correction. The press reports that the government has already started implementing some kind of redesign, we hope that they are true and that we can have an open, honest debate as soon as possible on Hungary's energy policy, these projects, the use of renewable energies and their enormous potential. I would also like to point out very briefly, and I think it is very important, that we owe a huge thank you to everyone who has participated in the care and support of refugees from the war in our neighbourhood. Here we also think of civilians and all government or municipal employees who have done this very important work. I think it is a very positive example of what the country-world can see in Europe with regard to Hungary, that Hungary has adopted and supported people fleeing the horrors of the Ukrainian war. To me, this terrible conflict has reminded me of the events in South Slav. When I was a teenager, I could hear the cannon from Pécs, see the muzzle fires from Mecsek, and then Baranya County showed me that he could give homes and protect people fleeing the horrors of war. This is certainly very important, and I thank everyone who has been involved in this. I would also like to refer to the conclusion of this brief comment, which my fellow Members have referred to the future of Europe, the functioning of the European Union. I think that, in some respects, we can also see a lot of hypocrisy in the operation of the government, but I can also criticise the opposition side, because many times there has been a lack of saying that the European Union needs fundamental changes and reforms. We believe that we need not more, but a better Europe; we need a Europe that ensures the conditions for remaining in the homeland, which ensures balanced territorial development, support and development of rural areas that are falling apart. We need a Europe that can protect our natural resources, which will help us to tackle cross-border environmental problems together. We need a Europe that supports workers' rights, strengthens our ability to protect workers' rights together, more effectively, and we need a Europe that takes seriously its principles related to its founding statements and does everything it can to ensure the rights of indigenous national minorities. We will always stand up for the reforms of the European Union in this direction, and in no way will we support a short-sighted policy that expects all solutions from Europe, as we see the serious challenges facing the European Union. Overall, I can therefore say that this proposal, in the sense that it can be read in the explanatory statement, is of no importance. [[12.50]] The government itself has provided for us to vote on this, since we have been abused many times by extraordinary authority. At the same time, I also underline and repeat that, of course, we support with our vote all measures that are really important for preserving the safety of Hungarian people. I really wish that the government, faced with these global challenges, faced with the serious mistakes of past cycles and with the system of challenges that have never been seen before, should finally represent national policy not only in terms of voices, not only at the level of passwords, but also in the interests of the nation. As soon as such decisions and every time such decisions come before the Hungarian Parliament, the LMP, the Group of the Green Party of Hungary will support this, and you can expect to always draw attention to what we believe is the right way to represent Hungarian national interests. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of Dialogue and Momentum.]]
u2022-05-10-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a German national minority representative, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language, and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-55	Danke. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrte Frau Ministerin Varga! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich die Meinung des Ausschusses in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten, bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlags mit Titel T/25 und mit Titel, Äderung zur Katastropenverhütung und zu den bestimmten, damit zusammenhängenden Gesetzen, mit Nr. T/26's force field. Mr President, Dear Madam Secretary, Dear House, Allow me to express our committee's opinion on T/25 on the 10th amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary and CXXVIII of 2011 on the protection of disasters and the amendment of certain related laws. T/26. on legislative proposals No 1. It is rarely possible, even in the life of a Member of Parliament, to meet immediately with the Constitution, the Fundamental Law of Hungary, as a proposal for the first amendment of a parliamentary session. There is now such an exceptional case, and I would first deal with the parts of the Fundamental Law which specifically concern nationalities before any specific legislative proposal. These citations will not be long, but their content is vital to us, as we know and have to follow further fundamental and other laws on all nationalities in Hungary. First, I would like to highlight the following part of the National Creed, and first I quote in German: Wir erklären, dass die mit uns lebenden Nationalitäten Teile der ungarischen politischen Gemeinschaft und staatsbildende Faktoren sind. Wir verpflichten uns, unser Erbe, unsere einzigartige Sprache, die ungarische Kultur, die Sprache und Kultur der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten, die von der Natur gegebenen und durch den Menschen geschaffenen Werte des Karpatenbeckens zu pflegen und zu bewahren. Wir tragen die Verantwortung für unsere Nachfahren, deshalb beschützen wir die Lebensgrundlagen der folgenden Generationen durch den sorgfältigen Umgang mit unseren materiellen, geistigen und natürlichen Ressourcen. Quote in Hungarian:.. We promise to preserve the spiritual and spiritual unity of our nation that has been torn apart during the storms of the last century. We declare that the nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute state-making factors. We undertake to cultivate and preserve our heritage, our unique language, our Hungarian culture, the language and culture of Hungarian nationalities, the natural and man-made values of the Carpathian Basin. We take responsibility for our offspring, so we use our material, spiritual, and natural resources carefully to protect the living conditions of the generations that follow us. End of subpoena. The second is XXIX. I would like to highlight Articles 1 to 1 (), 2 and 3) first in German: Artikel XXIX (1) Die in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten sind staatsbildende Faktoren. Jeder ungarische Staatsbürger, der einer Nationalität angehört, hat das Recht zum freien Bekenntnis und zur Bewahrung seiner Identität. Die in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten haben das Recht auf den Gebrauch der Muttersprache, auf die individualuelle und collective Namensführung in der eigenen Sprache, auf die Pflege ihrer eigenen Kultur und auf Unterricht in der Muttersprache. (2) Die in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten können örtliche und landesweite Selbstverwaltungen errichten. (3) Das Nähere über die Rechte der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten, die Nationalitäten und die Voraussetzungen für die Anerkennung als Nationalität sowie die Regeln der Wahl zu örtlichen und landesweiten Selbstverwaltungen der Nationalitäten regelt ein Kardinalgesetz. Ein Kardinalgesetz kann die Anerkennung als Nationalität an ein Heimischsein von einem bestimmten Zeitraum sowie an die Initiative einer bestimmten Anzahl von Personen, die sich zur jeweiligen Nationalität bekennen, binden. Quote in Hungarian: (1) Nationalities living in Hungary are state-creating factors. Any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. (2) Nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments. (3) Detailed rules on the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, nationalities and conditions for recognition as nationalities, and rules for the election of local and national minority self-governments are laid down by a fundamental law. A material law may make recognition as a nationality subject to a fixed period of nationality and to the initiative of a certain number of persons claiming to belong to that nationality. Third, I quote Article 2 (2) in German and Hungarian: Die Teilnahme der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten an der Arbeit des Parlaments wird durch Kardinalgesetz geregelt. I.e. the participation of nationalities living in Hungary is governed by a fundamental law in the work of the Parliament. End of subpoena. Finally, I quote point 21 of the closing and mixed provisions, also in German and Hungarian: Die Teilnahme der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten an der Tätigkeit des Parlaments gemäß Artikel 2 Absatz 2 des Grundgesetzes ist erstmalig in der Tätigkeit des aufgrund der ersten Parlamentswahlen nach Inkrafttreten des Grundgesetzes konstituierten Parlaments zu gewährleisten. The participation of the nationalities living in Hungary in the work of the National Assembly pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the Fundamental Law shall be provided for the first time by the Members of Parliament in the work of the National Assembly which was established after the first general election of the Fundamental Law came into force. End of subpoenas, end of subpoenas. For us indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, it is a great pleasure, satisfaction and recognition that on 3 April 2022, following the entry into force of the Fundamental Law, it was the third time that national minority advocates and representatives were elected. [[13.00]] I considered the quotes made to be important at the beginning of the third term of nationality to be verbatim, because more new parties and more new Members have entered and started their work in the Parliament. I respectfully ask that you take account of what has been said at all times and take account of it in your work. I would also like to thank all the factions and all the Members of Parliament for the unanimous vote of the Chair and Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. After all, I would like to turn to concrete legislative proposals. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed the legislative proposals on the agenda at its first meeting on 9 May 2022, during the current term. The content of the two legislative proposals is essentially the same if: Article 53 ( 1) of the Fundamental Law. The Government is accompanied by the text of an elemental blow to the security of life and property by an armed conflict, a war situation or a humanitarian disaster in the neighbouring country. We believe that, in such a situation, the decision of the current government must meet two fundamental aspects: 1. make a quick decision; 2. make a good decision. The requirement for a good decision depends on the capabilities of the current government, which cannot be guaranteed by legislation. However, the possibility of a quick decision depends primarily on the legislative environment, which can be guaranteed by supplementing the Fundamental Law. On the basis of what has been said, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is CXXVIII of 2011 on the 10th amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary and on the protection of disasters and the amendment of certain related laws. T/26. It agrees with the legislative proposals and proposes their adoption to the Parliament. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the benches of Jobbik and Momentum.]]
u2022-05-10-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Mr President Novak of the Group of our country. Here you go.
u2022-05-10-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The battles and dalliances of the left are always surprising, for example, Jobbik has shown openness to vote in favour of the Government's two-thirds basic legislative amendment aimed at broadening the status of the emergency with reference to the war situations in the neighbouring country. However, according to the Hungarian Movement, this is unacceptable, and let us say that after the coronal virus, the government is looking for a new way to keep people under restrictions in extraordinary legal order. On the other hand, we need to highlight the guise of this, because the announcement of a war emergency would also mean armed preparations, and it would also be a very bad message diplomatically. Instead, a government decision allowing foreign NATO combat groups to enter Hungary should be withdrawn, because making our country an area of military march would create a real emergency for our country. After allowing NATO troops to be deployed into our country in the framework of the US-Russian war, despite the government's earlier promise, unfortunately, the Mi Hazank Movement remained the only party to speak in favour of Hungary's independence. We seriously believe that foreign forces have no place in our country, because Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. And in order to disprove the misconceptions, let us state that our contractual obligation to be a member of NATO would only be to help to protect it in case a Member State is attacked, but Ukraine is not a NATO member. Our Hungary opposes the military support of the Soviet Ukraine, which pursues a repressive policy against the Hungarian national part of Transcarpathia, and the service of American interests. The embargo against the Russians has already caused very serious damage to the Hungarian economy, so let the Hungarian interest be the first! Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2022-05-10-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. No further of my fellow Members came forward for a two-minute speech. It is now up to the speakers who have been notified in writing. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mátrai Márta, the Housekeeper of Parliament. Here you go, ma'am.
u2022-05-10-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Madam Secretary, Dear Parliament, I am convinced that Hungary's Fundamental Law is the most important document of the survival and historical struggle of the Hungarian people. Hungary's Fundamental Law summarises the knowledge and experience of centuries, which found broad support from Hungarian society. The Fundamental Law is a special choice of value that ensures stability and the planning of the future. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of Hungary has submitted T/25. Amendment 10 of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. As an example, allow me some thoughts. In recent years, like many nations around the world, we Hungarians have had to adapt to the trials caused by the pandemic. The fight against the Crown Virus affected not only health systems and economic order, challenging nations in the short, medium and long term, but also affecting society and the functioning of national parliaments representing voters. We had to adapt to these challenges. It has become clear that, despite the government legislation allowed by the extraordinary legal order, Parliament's role in democracy must not be undermined. I would like to stress that in Hungary there was a detailed and comprehensive emergency regulation prior to the outbreak of the corona virus, since the fundamental rules of the emergency were regulated by the Fundamental Law itself, the introduction measures were regulated by the Disaster Protection Act. A common feature of the special rule of law governed by the Fundamental Law is that either the special status itself or the measures taken in the context of the extraordinary legal order must be approved or decided by the Parliament to extend or terminate it. Like other countries, the government has the right to order an emergency in Hungary. Under the authority of the Parliament, the government may extend the emergency if the circumstances giving rise to the announcement continue to exist. During the epidemic, the Parliament, which has been continuously carrying out its work, has given the government the necessary authority within the framework of law. Dear Parliament, The tensions caused by the epidemic and the system of protection and security measures and legislation introduced by the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law have barely calmed down in relation to the special legal order, unfortunately, life has brought Hungary and the Hungarian government to new challenges. Unfortunately, in the Russian-Ukrainian war that has been going on since February 24th, the fights have not stopped. The wave of refugees is also increasing, as my fellow Members have already said in their previous speeches. Hungary has an elemental interest in having a capable government in such a conflict situation. The protection of Hungarian lives and the development of the Hungarian economy cannot depend on the government not being able to react and make decisions in time in the absence of a mandate. It is well known to everyone that the number of women and children fleeing for their lives is already close to 700 thousand, who came to Hungary through the Romanian and Ukrainian borders. The arrivals either travel to their family members, friends, acquaintances or wish to seek asylum in Hungary on the basis of their decision. Hungary provides accommodation, hot food, medical care and work for everyone, based on its unique humanitarian assistance. The children's school education, the kindergarten supervision of the smaller ones, will also be solved by the government. Dear Parliament, Pursuant to Article 53 (1) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, an emergency has been declared by the Government in the event of an elemental disaster or industrial disaster endangering the safety of life and property, and in order to counter their consequences, which is supplemented by the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law. [[13.10]] This relates to the 2011 CXXVIII on disaster management. The current amendment to the Act. The devastating war right next to our border justifies adding legislation to the list in the event of the humanitarian disaster and the war conflict in the neighbouring country. For these are the moments when there is no delay, the rapid response is a means of averting life. Unfortunately, there is a real chance that the war and the humanitarian disaster may continue for years. Therefore, in such a situation, the Hungarian Government must make rapid decisions, with a sufficient basis for the amendment now tabled to the Fundamental Law, and this gives it the power to do so. It must be clear to all of us, and it must be made clear that the decision of the government takes less time than the call for Parliament to vote on a particular issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Both the humanitarian disaster and the war conflict in a neighbouring country can have direct negative consequences for our country, which we almost cannot assess in advance. The Government therefore intends to create legal conditions for effective defence by supplementing the state of emergency. It is therefore important to clarify that the amendment of such legislation is in the sole interest and protection of Hungary and the Hungarian people. In view of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the amendments tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-10-60	Thank you very much, ma'am. The next speaker was Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Listening to the lead speakers on the left, I thought of three words: inaccuracies, slipping and lying. In these three categories, my fellow left-wing Members moved in their speeches as keynote speakers, and there were those who wandered into completely different directions and unfortunately did not say anything about the legislative proposals. For example, László Toroczkai or Bence Tordai, who did historical, socio-economic and other reviews, but did not talk about the bill. I think that is regrettable, because the whole point of a debate is to debate the bill before us. My fellow Member, Mr Gergely Arató, objected to the need to seek consensus and to amend the Constitution and Fundamental Law by consensus. This debate is also a search for consensus. [[Defiance and intervention in the benches of DK: Ezes, he does not eat, he gets nothing else.]] We have presented a proposal to you; here is a proposal that we believe is appropriate. Of course, every Member has the right to submit amendments to this and even to form his opinion, just as you have done for many hours. That's what this debate is all about. Bence Tordai and Zsolt Molnár, my fellow Member, who opposed the debate in the amendment of the basic law, rushed out quickly after their speech, so that they would not have to meet a debate or an opposite opinion here in the House, so that they would not happen to hear that there was a different opinion in the Parliament. You've been touring the country and the left-wing press for the past few months, and you're going to want to change the constitution with a half a vote of law. Thus, thanks to the wisdom of the electorate, a third of them have become the subject of a constitution or content with a shot, because this has to be considered, my fellow Members, how they would like to deal with these issues in the next period. My fellow Member, Mr Gergely Arató, had a smiling argument that he was changing the Fundamental Law and the emergency to the government's immediate interests. Dear fellow Member, Would you have thought, on the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, that there would be a war next door? Did you know in November there was a war brewing next door? 'Cause if he knew, he could've told me. We did not know and did not suspect, so we are not amending the Fundamental Law in accordance with our political interests at the moment, but in external circumstances. For many years, for many decades there has not been war in our environment, quite rightly, and this war must end as soon as possible, and the most important thing is to achieve peace by any diplomatic means as soon as possible; but of course we could not have known that. Therefore, I think it is absolutely natural that if there was a new situation in the migration crisis in 2015, for example, there was a new situation, and we also made decisions when the Brexit happened, because it was a new situation, honourable Member, the task of a parliament is to respond to it if there is a new situation, and it is the task of a Parliament to respond to it if there is such a situation that has arisen as a war. That is why I would rather not have the political interest at present in the Member's place, because that is not the case. [[Gergely Harvesto: You've convinced me. Oh, no.]] Congressman has also spoken about energy dependence. This has emerged among other things that Russian energy dependence is good, not good, why it is not good that it should be changed. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past few days, we have repeatedly told you that we have done everything we can to build infrastructure in as many directions as possible to receive gas or oil from other countries: towards Romania, towards the Black Sea gas fields; from the seven neighbouring countries we have six connections. If the Croatians increased the capacity of the liquefied gas terminal on the island of Krk, we could also buy there. We are waiting for international decisions to be made in the US, Austria, Romania, Croatia and several decisions that give us the opportunity to buy from elsewhere. Until then, we have no other option but to buy Russian gas or Russian oil in this quantity so that Hungarian people can heat at home, so that the Hungarian economy will work and that there will be no such situation as when your fellow parties in Brussels suggest that we vent our clothes rather than wash them with a washing machine. I thank the Jobbik for their praise, for he said that so far the emergency provisions have been met. Then they changed their minds after all, and our actions so far were correct. I believe that emergency measures have been well tested during the coronal virus epidemic and that we have taken effective decisions. Of course, if it were up to you, these wouldn't have happened. Because if it had passed on your votes, there would not have been a credit moratorium, there would not have been, for example, the freezing of interest rates, there would not have been a number of measures that helped families in the middle of the coronal virus epidemic, because then you did not consent to such measures, so it was important to declare an emergency and the government's rapid response was important. It is amusing when my fellow Member, Mr László György Lukács, claims that during the campaign they have often initiated the convening of the Defence and Police Committee, of course, never for political purposes. We know you as bad money; you are never initiated for political purposes. [[Gergely Arató: The Parliament has political goals. Noise in opposition benches.]] They never initiate meetings for political purposes outside a parliamentary period, in an election campaign, but we're used to that. I would like to point out to my fellow Member at dawn that one of the voters, Judit Varga, has turned to you for a favor to support the amendment of the Fundamental Law. That's what he missed for the voters to turn to you. Well, Madam Secretary, you told me in your exposé for 15 minutes why this amendment to the basic law is important. [[Szabolcs Szabó: The problem is smaller.]] In the Lisbon Treaty, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that it has been accepted by Ferenc Gyurcsány, so that you should contact your allies if you wish to negotiate the Lisbon Treaty. The Member asked what good governance was like. Good governance is one in which the governing parties will win elections because they have proved that they are worthy of people's trust, that they have done good to people, that they have helped people. This was typical of the 3 April elections, because we have said before and since then we have said that there are such debates, we have to take these debates with you, we have to take them with Brussels, we have to take it with everyone, but it is in the interests of the Hungarian people first, and if you say that your friend Márton Gyöngyösi, friend of Jávor Benedek, is good at these sanctions, how good the oil embargo's decisions are, then we say that this is against the interests of the Hungarian people, so let us not accept them. I am sorry that you have failed to distance yourself from your fellow politicians again, and once again you have failed to say that, yes, we do not support the oil embargo clearly, clearly and clearly, because your friends in Brussels and your fellow parties in Brussels say exactly the opposite, and I think that is sad. I'm glad they're finally talking about the problems of living in Hungary, yesterday Bence Tordai talked about the problems of living in the Castle, and you're talking about the problems of living in the Mountains, but let's look a little further. There is a world outside the Boulevard, Your Honour. It is worth considering the problems of the Hungarians as a whole, the Hungarians as a whole. The socialists opposed the debate, but then they disappeared quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, The thing is, it's not a game for such a war in the neighboring country. You can't take this lightly. And you can't handle this as lightly as you can handle it. [[13.20]] And the fact that you question the highest expertise of the Hungarian authorities, for example, in dealing with the refugee crisis, the fact that Gergely Arató and Zsolt Gréczy nod, nods against the fact that we did not provide the majority of refugees in proportion to the population, although that is the case, honourable Member... [[Gergely Harvesto: You took him in! You're the ones who took in some.]] That is correct, honourable Member, we have provided the most refugees in proportion to the population. By saying that the Hungarian state has not responded well, the work of the soldiers, the police, the paramedics and the public administration is called into question. If you had been on the Hungarian-Ukrainian border, you would have seen the cooperation in which the public authorities, municipalities, churches and civil society organisations all took their part, and which was a heartwarming cooperation, which, I think, belongs to this country, and which, I think, is very, very exemplary. If you look at the other countries neighbouring Ukraine, you will not see such a social cooperation there, fellow Members. So I'm asking you to be more careful when you talk about the state's failure to provide refugees and how it didn't respond in time. That was not the case, fellow Members. Since the first day, there have been public authorities, local governments, churches and civil society organisations, and not only have they been successful, but they are now, in these days and in these hours as well. The current bill, which would amend the Fundamental Law, is necessary because the consequences of a war are never known and never foreseen. We didn't realize there was going to be a war next door. What we would most welcome if it were to end as soon as possible, and that would not be necessary, should not be introduced, should not be later, at any time. I'd like it if we never had a war in the next few days. But we don't know that, just like we didn't know whether this war was going to break out or not. And the fact is that a war has such unpredictable consequences, whether it has humanitarian consequences or economic consequences, which must be prepared for, which must be able to do, must be strong, must be firm. And when you're always saying who's on whose side you're on, you just can't understand what we want to be on the side of the Hungarians. It would be better for you to take the side of the Hungarians and not learn your opinions from different Twitter messages and Brussels Commission press conferences, because it would be time to put Hungarian interests first, to take the side of Hungarians in this war and in this conflict and in all other international conflicts. We will do everything we can, just as we have done to make peace. We had three basic statements at the beginning of the war, and we continue to do so: let there be peace as soon as possible, and we stay out of the war; we help everyone who needs help, and we provide all those fleeing Ukraine; and the third is that the Hungarians do not pay the price of the war. All three have been held ever since, and we have been doing so ever since, and our actions are determined by these three principles, and we will continue to do so in the future. I am asking you not to prevent this, but rather to help this work, to stay out of the war, to feed the refugees, and not to let the Hungarians pay the price of the war. I need your help in all three of them. As far as I'm concerned, from the keynote speeches, you've decided not to help. I'd like it if it wasn't. But if you think you can help us with that, we'll be counting on you in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-05-10-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Zsolt Láng. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The thing is, after eight years, I was able to return and have the honor of being a Member of Parliament again, and for a moment I was uncertain that this honor was the same as it was eight years ago. For a moment, I felt like my fellow Members on the other side had switched the Parliament building with Hyde Park. They came up, they went up to the platform, and they talked about everything they could think of, world peace, water bases, settlement policy, everything, and I had to see that this was the old order that we had, that there were bill proposals, and then we discussed them. And I looked at the bill as an amendment to the Fundamental Law and the Disaster Protection Act. So if you'll excuse me, I'll be back. I have half a comment. I am very honored by Mr Miklós Hajnal when he said and drew our attention to the need to hold debates and political debates in Parliament. Thank you very much, we know that, but I feel that these sentences were not really for us, but for Ákos Hadházy and his other anarchist friend on the left. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] But we are pleased that you are returning to Parliament and, by the way, we are debating in Parliament. Well, if you'll excuse me. [[Intercom from opposition lines. The president's ringing the bell.]] , concerning the submission...
u2022-05-10-64	Excuse me, Congressman. Congressman Dawn, this isn't the scene of clowning, this is Parliament, and I'm asking you very nicely not to engage in a separate dialogue. If necessary, press the button and I'll give you two minutes' notice.
u2022-05-10-65	Thank you. So I'd like to return to the bill itself or to amend the law. In the beginning, the Fundamental Law, on the part of the opposition, has said a number of indicative structures regarding the Fundamental Law. However, although many of my excellent fellow Members have said so, I think it is important to state that the Fundamental Law is one of the most important foundations of democratic public life in Hungary today, following the 1990 regime change. She was born late, we waited 20 years for her, but it's very important. If you'll allow me... a lot of people to say because we're amending the Fundamental Law. There is an old term for the foundation, which says that the foundation of the building, which is the sunken part that holds the walls and the roofs, is a powerful structure on which another structure rests, which serves as the bottom, bottom and bottom of the building. Now I think that this is the Fundamental Law, and this Fundamental Law is a very strong foundation, which, of course, from time to time, if life is given in a way that is not influenced by us, then it must be amended and made to serve the best purpose for which it was born. There is now a situation that, indeed, as Congressman Nacsa said before me, no one could see, not even Mr Arató, that there will be a war with our eastern neighbour, a war that is part of a nuclear power, and a country, an eastern country where 150,000 Hungarians live in Transcarpathia, by the way. In a country like this, 76 days of war broke out, which we did not know, but we have seen since there have been ground artillery attacks, air strikes, millions of refugees who are afraid of their lives fleeing this country, women and children, and so far Hungary has provided about 700,000 refugees. Obviously you were on the border, visiting the BOK Hall to help with the work that the Hungarian government is doing there. I have to say that Hungary is an exemplary humanitarian aid for refugees from Ukraine, which is recognised not only by us, but also by the European Union and perhaps by many countries of the world, and this work must be continued in a way that seems to prolong the war and that the war will not end. In addition to our commitment not to carry weapons to Ukraine, or to participate in the war in any way, because we are the most important of all the security and calm of the Hungarian people, and, of course, we must prepare the government for every opportunity possible, and in this preparation we believe that it is necessary that the normal legal order that can last for weeks in a law, in a legislative act, is speeded up, and that if an immediate response is needed, as was not so long ago in the epidemic situation, the Hungarian government can do so. With this amendment of the basic law, we are now initiating nothing but, I think, a national minimum, which is about the Hungarian government being able to respond effectively and quickly to events in Ukraine. Of course, there is a long discussion of the economic situation. This is always strange when, say, we hear from a DK, recalling the fantastic performance of the Gyurcsány government, how to make a good economy in such a situation, but there is no doubt that we can see on the economy that Europe is in a very serious crisis and that a very serious crisis is beginning in Europe. We can see energy prices, we can see consumer price indices. All government options are needed in order to capture this crisis in Europe economically. That is why the amendment is necessary. So I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, obviously it is four years... I would like to tell you that the election has not long ended, and that the result should be taken into account before a speech, but there are still four years to go, and we will certainly debate on a number of issues, but on fundamental issues about protecting Hungary from a war situation in a neighbouring country or any kind of danger from it, let us try to cooperate in this and try to support it. [[13.30]] I am quite certain that Hungarians are sane, there is no sane Member of Parliament who does not want Hungary to stay out of this war, and Hungary must suffer as little damage as possible in this serious international situation. Obviously, we all want the war to end as soon as possible, but until we do, and until we see the end of this economic impact, I think that we need to act quickly. The current legislative amendments serve this purpose, so please support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-10-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2022-05-10-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Following such an election result, a logical and consistent step on the part of the representatives of the governing parties would be some elegance, well, my fellow Member Zsolt Láng absolutely opposed that. I understand the need to drive within the hierarchy for a good place, but please don't ignore the message of common sense in the meantime. The fact is that I understand the desperate and forced attempts to explain that the 10th amendment of granite strength is needed to act as a quick-reaction Corps in this situation, but I would like to tell my fellow Member Flame that I am always dressed like one and a half years ago, so there has not been a situation in which the Government of Hungary has announced a parliamentary meeting and we would not have been here for any objective or external reason. The fact is that in the midst of a very serious crisis, a crisis caused by the corona virus, it was found that the Hungarian Parliament could sit at any time. I would add that I now see the new Members' notebooks in front of each of the Members, which is why Article XXI We are living in the century, my fellow Members, so if you wanted to, and if you wanted to, a well-prepared government in the digital age, well, these machines are perfectly capable of interpreting the expansion of parliamentary operations, even if they were able to hold an online meeting or decision. I know it's a long way to go, but you've got to think braver. I'm asking you to do this on XX. Let go of this kind of celebrity, a little bit like this in terms of the achievements of the modern era. I was somewhat surprised at the fact that several of his pro-government fellow Members called for opposition criticisms and wordings on issues other than the 10th amendment of the Fundamental Law, so I am very strict about the line leading by the Minister, and my fellow Member Nacsa is a great mentor in this respect and can inspire opposition representatives. I'm trying to stay on this line. And not only should I be critical, we commend the Minister in this situation, because that is not what we are used to, that someone from the ministerial level is here all the time in a debate, and I hope that she will respond to what has been said not only in terms of the closing but also in the meantime. At the time of Minister Novak's term of minister, I have always tried to keep her here, to participate in these debates, since we can discuss the same effectively with much fewer circles. Unfortunately, we didn't succeed there, usually with Róbert Zsigó we threw the political club at each other, but I think it's better this way. I hope that Madam Secretary will also be at my disposal when, with the eviction moratorium expired, we are preparing for a different kind of emergency and, in order to prevent this, we will bring the proposals to the table. I am very confident that we can work together effectively for those in the most difficult situation, and I have not been cynical about it. I would also like to say that it was stated in the explanatory statement that the Government of Hungary wants to protect families. I wrote this with a pencil on my paper, and I'd like to be stuck here for a while, because if this fundamental amendment had any aspect like that, which would make it suitable for the increased, extended protection of families or their transfer, I would immediately support it. Let's stick to eviction. We have known more than 23,000 such events since 2010. What was very unpleasant to me was that we had legal aid on the ground and tried to turn illegal processes into permitted by law, that the government had declared itself family-friendly. That was his rhetoric, and when one of his representatives went into any lie factory or News TV or Royal TV, they always said they were protecting families. On the other hand, we, opposition representatives, have seen that you and the executive chamber have agreed quotas, haven't you, in quarterly eviction quotas? Perhaps my fellow Member of the Flame knows about this, and that quarterly quotas have appeared. You can still find the data on your notebook on the Executive Chamber's website. These quotas were established by the Hungarian government agreeing with the executives on how many people can be thrown out of their homes on a quarterly basis, and the executives roughly maximized this quota. And then, once again, we know more than 23,000 such events, it turns out that the head of this executive system is supposed to be colluding with several heads or heads of the government up to a minimum level of secretary of state. Here, the investigation is still ongoing. So once again, I do not want to make it difficult for Mr President to do so, nor do I deviate from what has already been said in the ministerial exposé, but at the same time I have included it in protecting families. If this fundamental law amendment had such a direction, there would be such an aspect, then we would be happy to discuss how eligible this is. I see it the same way that the defence of families is being spoken here in Parliament, but the most brutal penalty for families in all Europe is here in Hungary, and you tolerate it. Our younger, older, middle-aged Hungarian compatriots face a totally unjustified burden, the 27 percent VAT. You make more than 5,000 billion forints a year out of this. I see the point. We are talking about a few ten thousand forints on one side and a thousand billion forints on the other, and I would like to facilitate this flow diagram. The point of the tenth amendment is not to allow the Hungarian government to become a quick-reaction military force, because it could do so, and if not, it could call Parliament at any time. Today's debate is one of the proofs that we are here, called together, and we are present immediately. That would be the case any time later, I think. The thing is, the goal is quite different. In the shadow of an emerging crisis, near it, it is worth seeing how this government used the previous special mandate, what it did during the outbreak of the Crown Virus. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, please at least in the closing moment explain to me how justified it is that, under the special legal order, you have facilitated the work of real estate investors. How can it be justified that, in the event of an emergency caused by the coronal virus, close to government and, where appropriate, cross-border real estate investors have been set up? We, naive, romantic souls, idealist opposition representatives, thought that during an epidemic situation they might be thinking about replacing 80% of the wages lost for all Hungarian workers. They didn't do that. Why didn't they? One of Europe's most microscopic wage replacement programs is Lőrinc Nacsa, who can continue my sentence, and I have told him so many times that he was born here in Hungary. This is where a member of a family in Győr-Moson-Sopron County who is staying at home during the closures received 90 percent of his salary, because he worked in a restaurant next to Vienna, and there it was considered important for this person to be able to return after the crisis and continue his work, to have a workforce. The other member of the siblings, who worked here in Hungary, didn't get anything, didn't get a penny, survive as he wished, and then take advantage of the fact that there is a shortage of workers. Interestingly, Hungary is in fact the only national economy in the region where there is a shortage of labour, and yet this has not led to the brutal strengthening of employee interest, the degree of vulnerability has not decreased. This is related to the fact that the Government of Hungary, although it talks about it, does not implement the protection of families. But again, I am going to go to the Minister, because we will also be meeting at Commission level with a proposal that I have just tabled, and I am going to submit now, this proposal for parental allowance, which could provide orbital assistance to people without Hungarians in an emerging crisis. The essence of this is that 10 percent of the personal income tax already paid can be made available to all Hungarian employees and that they can have their parents and parents enriched by the tax already paid, so they can transfer it to the pension if appropriate. In this way, the government of Hungary, not the state, would not be richer than you would be deciding what to spend, but at least 10 percent of the tax paid will enrich the family, and as an expression of intergenerational solidarity, this would be a perfectly good way to start patching up the lost social security net in the middle of a crisis. I think it's very important what you're talking about, the protection of families, but I don't see any of this happening. My biggest problem is the demographic aspect of this. Even my fellow Member Nacsa will never dispute it, and there is agreement between us on this, and it is good that it is so, and it is important that there is agreement that the demographic situation in Hungary is disastrous. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But it has improved a lot!]] [[13.40]] We are saying that in the first three months, so few children were born, that if we multiply this three-month unfortunate data for the whole year, then somewhere between 78 and 79 thousand live births we can expect this to be a brutal, dramatic setback. And if one of these issues is treasonous to be counter-suspected, then this is it, so that no one here can be counter-suspected, everyone here must cheer in the direction that Hungary will not be eliminated, and Hungary will not have the disastrous situation that the current figures are predicting; the current figures indicate that if this stays this way, we will be a country of six million by the end of the century. We didn't work out the social care system for six million people, the infrastructure, we didn't plan our cities for that many people, everything gets more and more expensive, everything gets harder and harder if it stays that way. And if emigration pours down this process as a kind of negative syrup, then we can see that the entire Hungarian counties can be eliminated and the usual type of life disappears there. And as a father of three, I don't want to raise my children in a country that has nothing to do with what I had when I was a kid. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Or yours. I stick to our traditions, and as a national emotional right-wing man, I stick to the Hungary in which I grew up (Lőrinc Nacsa intervenes.) And I expect you to face this problem, not pretend it doesn't exist. And don't just talk about protecting families even at the time of the presentation of the 10th amendment to the Fundamental Law, but do something about it. Support the VAT reduction of children's education articles! I'll put it in, take it, put it in their own name, I'll vote for it, I promise you in front of everyone. Support the parental allowance. I know it's expensive, but there's room in the budget for this. Our experts are available even from the public, but let's get this very serious tool through. And my request is that this demographic aspect should not only appear in words to you. The protection of families can be done in many ways. Madam Minister, even a very serious warning: do this in such a way that families are not evicted without accommodation in Hungary, all this is extremely important. I don't want to live in a neoliberal society where the lucky, richer can get himself out of trouble, who, let's say, looked into a tragic situation, doesn't get any help just because he's a foreign exchange credo, just because he's a teacher, just because he's a public employee. In my worldview, all our countrymen are entitled to this help. Don't make the same mistake as so many politicians and so many national economies that they're allowing this neoliberal madness to infiltrate where only those who live up to your world view will be helped. This is not what I want, and I want everyone to have this and real family-friendly governance in Hungary; I would add, regardless of the status of government, if you will not be one day, so be it! Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik, DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-05-10-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I would like to address Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt, once again. Here you go.
u2022-05-10-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I did not want to speak in this debate, but after the speeches by Mr Zsolt Láng and my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, I felt that I needed to speak briefly. I would like to protect the Minister immediately after Zsolt Láng's speech, and I would also like to protect the lead speakers of KDNP. I believe that it is certainly justified, whether to go up to the pulpit or to talk about the system of global challenges and to start a debate on the debate on the amendment of the basic law when we are really in such critical circumstances and when we can agree that we are living at a time of crisis. So I think that it was certainly justified to speak and to interpret the extended speech and the problems that the Minister has made in this way, and I think it is important to protect her despite the fact that we have a lot of discussions on issues. Congressman Nacsa has spoken about the government's recent struggle for energy security and energy independence. I have never heard of a single pro-government speaker, not only you, but how this particular Paks II project is assessed in terms of vulnerability to Russia, regardless of the assessment of nuclear power. So, my fellow Member, or any of my fellow members of the Government, believes that in this situation, it could be based on Russian credit, Russian technology, and Russian fuel-related energy independence to strengthen or achieve Hungary's energy independence after Professor Attila Aszódi admitted that the Russians ignored everything! the existing international agreement on nuclear safety and nuclear energy has been ignored by the fact that Russia is still the right partner for the government side in relation to the use of nuclear energy, and how they perceive their own scope of manoeuvre, so that if you do not give it to God, there will be a dispute with the Russians, how strong our positions feel in such a situation when they try to deliver Hungary even more to Russia in terms of energy supply. There has been a plan for the purchase of fossil fuels by sea as an alternative option. Well, I can tell you that, of course, as a green party, we do not support this, because we believe that maritime transport is in no way sustainable rather than pipeline transport, it cannot be regarded as a green solution. But, wasn't it, three years ago, an initiative was launched that the Hungarian government in Trieste, in the area of the port of Trieste, bought a potential port area, by the way, a derelict refinery, so we know that it wasn't a port, but did anything happen there, just like the remediation? So has any action been taken to ensure that it is not just a piece of land that the Hungarian government has purchased from very significant public funds, but that it has started any work or development there? I would ask Mr Nacsa, a very active fellow Member, and I very much trust him, and perhaps there is a reason for my hope that he will respond that, for example, as one of the most active representatives of the government side, you have noticed a shift in our energy self-sufficiency in relation to the unprofessional pro-government or government position to prohibit wind energy use. So will the government, as in such a situation, review it so that Hungary can use wind energy after all? And at the end of my short speech, it was here that my fellow Member, Daniel Z. Carpát, and many of us, mentioned that we can indeed see examples of measures taken in the extraordinary legal order that were in no way compatible with the protection against the coronal virus. And I'm not deliberately bringing out the outsourcing of the public property, the outsourcing of the university model change, because it didn't belong here, it was a parliamentary decision. At the same time, Minister, one of the first measures they took in the extraordinary legal order, i.e. the legislation of the regulation, was that they had brutal restrictions on the municipalities, so they took an amazing resource from the municipalities that were the number one bastions in the fight against the epidemic. And we can see that, at that time, the funds were withdrawn by regulation, citing an extraordinary situation, and then, cemented into a parliamentary decision, this situation was practically preserved in several respects, so the withdrawal of resources from the municipalities and the reduction of their possibilities were later maintained by a parliamentary decision. This, then, I think, was not justified, and it certainly does not point to the fact that, here, opposition representatives should give the government the authority to govern by regulation. But, I repeat, we continue to consider it important, and we will support every step here in Parliament that is really about safeguarding and protecting the safety of Hungarian people, and in agreement with my fellow Members, we will be here when the Parliament is convened and we are fully available, and we will support all positive and truly good proposals. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-05-10-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I now ask Minister Judit Varga, as rapporteur, that she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Judit Varga nodds.]] [[Dr. Judit Varga nodds.]] Would you like to respond in your place? (Dr. Judit Varga nodds. ) Yes, thank you very much. I give you the floor to the secretary, your time frame is 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2022-05-10-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Those who asked me questions are no longer sitting in the room, but thank you for the compliment that I sat through this debate. Of course, since it is about amending our Fundamental Law, it is a natural part of my profession and of my service as Minister of Justice. I mean, there's more in this room, I've tried to find a common denominator, a common sentence, and I feel that the sentence that we live in the times of crises has been shared somewhere by everyone, if I can live with such a modern word, and I would like to add the eternal sentence of our Fundamental Law, that it is an alliance between the past, the present and the Hungarians of the future, and, as such, I will translate it into the ordinary language by saying that what our ancestors, our great fathers, our grandfathers, our fathers and fathers have understood as justice, we too, children and descendants, and along these principles, along these truths, we are trying to meet the challenges of our time, which are, for example, a crisis. And I believe that this alliance between the past, the present and the Hungarians of the future will be regularly strengthened every four years in a democracy, and this reinforcement represents the consensus that Mr Arató missed. [[13.50]] I believe that since the 2011 Fundamental Law, the third is already very large in size, and even now historically, quantified, the largest consensus behind this Fundamental Law, and a very large rejection, for example, of the insane idea of unconstitutional constitutional constitutionalisation, which was one of the illegal ideas of left-wing and opposition cooperation in the campaign. Although it may be remembered by few, it is difficult to forget in legal circles. I think that it was Mr Arató, who made the point in this debate, who perhaps intended it to be a rhetorical question: why is there a need for a fundamental law amendment, why is there a need for an emergency? I believe that the essence of this logical order could not be more precise. We must say yes to the amendment of the basic law today so that if, if, do not give, God, there are circumstances that life can produce, then that question can be made conditional, so we can ask whether it is an emergency or not. I would like to remind everyone here that this debate was not about the emergency, it wasn't about the unlimited authorisation, it was not about the blank cheque; perhaps many people have read the motions superficially, the legislative proposals, but it was about the establishment of a constitutional framework, as is appropriate in a rule of law. I am burdened with the sweet burden of knowing the legal order of many countries, especially in the light of the emergency situation, since in the last two years we have been constantly attacked from international circles, especially from Brussels, with the support of the Hungarian opposition. Mrs Jourová expressed herself at the time of the first declaration of emergency in the spring of 2020, without examining the legal order and the application of the emergency law of the other countries, without Hungary doing something illegal, against the rule of law. Here I would like to assure many of you that certain measures, which can only be imagined in the constitutional order of Hungary with extraordinary authority and special legal order, are also part of the base line, the ordinary legal order in many countries, and in many European countries, the government can do things on the ground, for example, with an extraordinary legal order. So it is worth putting on a comparative, comparative legal approach, a pair of glasses that we can better place ourselves in the crossfire of these international debates. Returning to Mr Arató's question of why this amendment is necessary and why an emergency is necessary at all, this amendment is necessary so that we no longer have to discuss how we can react quickly and effectively to an unexpected situation. This creates an opportunity to stop questioning whether or not there is, whether or not there is an emergency when the constitutional circumstances that give rise to it occur. It's all about wise foresight, folk wisdom, that it's better to fear ahead than to be scared at once. It is about the freedom of responsible action, ladies and gentlemen, about the possibility of making effective and quick decisions and preparing for this. I would like to respond on three issues to the sentences and criticism that have been said, and I would also like to thank you here for the constructive criticism and for the offer of cooperation on issues that are not part of the amendment of the Fundamental Law, but because everything has been said here, and I would therefore like to thank you for the declaration of cooperation. As a criticism, it was said that Bianko, that unlimited authorisation, guarantees. I don't think many people blamed you, but the legal terms were mixed. Therefore, let us return to the source, because those who speak of Bianco are sure to be in some conceptual error, because it is clear that the facts of the emergency in force today, Article 53 in the Fundamental Law, say that the government can create a decree in the event of an emergency, with which the intervention can do so, as defined by the cardinal law or so. It is also very important that we have heard a great deal about unlimitedness in the international press, when two years ago an incredible attack on the Hungarian government, citing a dark historical past, also called our law on protection against the Crown Virus, that according to the current text of the Fundamental Law, these regulations will remain in force for 15 days, and we made that clear. Here comes the point: democracy, the European Union value, if you look at values in the treaties, respect for freedom, respect for human dignity, democracy. Democracy is expressed by the Parliament, every four years during the elections by a kind of majority, a government side and opposition standing, and it is the Parliament that may extend or authorise. The government doesn't give you authority, the emergency allows regulations and measures to be taken for 15 days. Here's the democratic guarantee, here's the point, the European value is that only the majority of Hungarians can continue to do so after 15 days. So we're not talking about any limitlessness here. The guarantees, I said in my introduction, in my expo, were ensured by the operation of the Constitutional Court. Emergency legislation has been in place for a longer period of time over the last two years. The Constitutional Court operated without interruption, even during the most dangerous period of the virus, and examined all submissions with the highest professionalism. That is why it is important that you read the detailed justification for the legislative amendments, because there we encourage almost one piece of legislation to take over, in any case, the constitutional control and examination formulas of the Fundamental Law, which the Constitutional Court has been using for many years. In the disaster protection law itself, in the fundamental law which then sets out the framework for action, we state that the government can exercise this power to the extent necessary, proportionate to the objective pursued, and in any event in order to prevent, manage and eradicate the consequences of armed conflict, war situation or humanitarian disaster in Hungary in the neighbouring country. It is a test of necessity, proportionality, commitment to purpose, also laid down by large international law institutions that applies to any provision. But once again, we are not talking about an emergency, we are talking about a basic rule of law, the opening of freedom of action for the Hungarian people, on the basis of the Hungarian electorate's will and mandate. Let's not forget, we've been through an election campaign and an election that's already experienced the war. And people have been able to decide what the left, the opposition challenger, and what the national conservative government offers them in this situation. I would like to say that the campaign was an unforgettable experience in this respect, it was unforgettable to look into the eyes of thousands of Hungarian people, to squeeze the hand of those Hungarian people who understood the government's position from half a word, and to understand what the opposition victory would bring them. Clear contrast pairs can be set up: either to protect national interests, national self-determination offered by the national conservative side, or to provide continuous training, to serve international lobbying interests in Brussels [[Gergely Arató: The election is over, you don't have to campaign anymore!]] continuous compliance with international requirements. But they could make the same decision about peace and security, and on the other hand, war and chaos stood as an alternative. This is what we have heard in the speeches and campaign speeches of many opposition candidates who would immediately send soldiers and weapons [[Dr. László György Lukács: Nobody said that!]] in an armed conflict that is not Hungary's armed conflict. It is also very important, which goes beyond the campaign, the issue of energy security, which is reflected in the proposal for increasingly vicious and unrealistic energy sanctions. We can see here that before Brussels we were asked by opposition representatives to close the gas taps, to close the oil pipeline, not to mention the disastrous consequences that would have on the security of Hungarian energy supply, on the functioning of the Hungarian industry. And these sanctions are still on the table. (László Földi in the notary seat) Replaced by Attila Móring József.) So I would like to ask you once again to read the bill in detail, because many people have asked why this is necessary and what is the legal basis. It is detailed that we are talking about the consequences of the humanitarian disaster and the management of economic impacts. I would like to congratulate Mr Dawn, as a district resident, although I am not happy with the result, but I respect it and respect our opponents. We've known this since the godfather, so I wish you a good job. [[Defiance.]] Then, as a district resident, I try to come to you with all sorts of crafty things, hoping you can help me. But you went into the legal details, Congressman Dawn, and you quoted the passages of the preventive defense situation. That proves that Momentum can only think in war, that's a prelude to a war situation, but that's not what this is about. If you read again what the government proposes, you can see that the consequences of the humanitarian crisis in Hungary and the economic impact. We see how the whole global economy is starting to shift, where the energy prices are, we see that these effects are going to deepen, they're still ahead of us. [[14.00]] And as in the event of an emergency, even in the event of an emergency caused by the virus, it has now become apparent at the level of numbers that the quick and immediate capacity of the government was important in order for Hungary to be the first in Europe to recover from the crisis or to be the first to graft most of the Hungarian population. After all, just think that this period has passed, but Politico has had a hard time writing this.Unfortunately, Politico has not written the list of vaccinations in Hungary for many months, and I could list them. The results speak for themselves, as Hungary made 7.1 percent GDP growth last year, and it was better than that in Poland, and this year they indicate 4-5 percent. These aren't coming on their own. This comes from the ability to act quickly, to recognise danger, and then from the opportunity to act quickly. So I would like to ask you, opposition representatives, to look at the interests of the Hungarian people and try to return to the electoral will, which was shown very loudly from Brussels and also from the moon on 3 April. And this decision was clear, and in this contrast pair, the national conservative side has increased the camp of its supporters to a greater extent than 2014-18, because the Hungarian people also understood from half the words where sobriety is, where security is, the path of peace. But you've lost 800,000 people with the rhetoric I'm sorry to hear here again. I believe that, in terms of European concepts, I am going back to the treaties again in terms of values, democracy is included in the list even sooner than the rule of law itself. So democracy is the most important thing. Therefore, you should have the same mandate as the Hungarian people, the majority of Hungarian voters, have stated. Here, I would like to quote the Prime Minister's sentence from last autumn: with us, even those who did not vote for us will benefit. [[Gergely Arató: With the 20 percent inflation that voted for you, it was very good.]] And the facts prove that if the majority of those who voted for you had said yes to war and chaos, even the poor voters who voted for you would have been bad for you. Our job is to create peace and security for every Hungarian in this country. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, is occupied by the Vice-President of the Parliament. Z. Carpathian Daniel in the notary seat Replaced by David Dócs.) We see the effects of these energy sanctions that are hanging above us. We will never vote in any way for an energy guarantee that would harm the basic interests of Hungary's households, its population, its citizens and its industry. Here, too, I will talk about green issues, because I have been personally touched by the sentences, because I did not use the term "green" as a cue word, and I think that Mr Arató might have misunderstood something here, but if I have to, I will literally recite what I said. I believe that the election result also proves that the emergency measures taken in the last two years have also been agreed by the Hungarian people, because it has given us the security we have been able to recover from this crisis, and now the Hungarian government has started in the right direction here in the first weeks of the war. So I just want to remind you once again of the principles of democracy. And then a few words about green affairs; it's not a curse, that's not how I used it in my expo. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that I see the trend in the world and at home that left-wing parties are trying to take over the environmental issue. That's not true. We all want to save this Earth, we all want to give it back to our grandchildren in the condition that they lent us. . I was an environmental consultant in the European People's Party for nearly ten years, and I can distinguish between rational, enlightened, responsible environmental policy and irresponsible green policy tied to a so-called tree. And for example, if we look at Hungary's certification in the fight against climate change in Europe only at the number level, then we have nothing to be ashamed of. The difference is that we do our homework quietly, while also paying attention as a responsible government to what kind of plant a crazy green measure might trigger in months. A government responsible for this will not do so, as it will achieve the desired goal in rationally, in thoughtful steps, designed for the long term, which, by the way, was the first law in Hungary that the Hungarian economy would be CO2-neutral by 2050. And for example, a very important step is that by 2030, which we are on a very good path to achieving, there will be 90 percent CO2-free domestic energy production, primary energy production. These are very, very important data, but I could also tell you about Kyoto targets, where, in the 1990 base year, we not only did 20 percent but 33 percent by 2020 minus, while other countries who beat their breasts very loudly in the fight against climate change and yell for more and more climate ambulances have only increased their emissions. So it's worth talking about facts and reality here. [[Gergely Arató: Because we have lost the industry. Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not gone, it's gone! Gergely Harvesto: After ..90?]] Once again, I would like to stress that the National Conservative Government's climate action plan was announced in the days before the virus, and it will ensure that, in addition to meeting the targets on a pro rata basis, our forests, our waters, our lakes and our air are clear in Hungary, and that is why the Hungarian Conservative Environmental Government acts every day. So here it is important to mention a few words about this gas embargo or oil embargo, because in this context I spoke about green dreams in my expozem. Let's see what happens in Germany. They must now virtually refute their own principles every day, for reality has knocked on the window, and it is also very important to record that we are now talking about stone-hard physics, mathematics and geography. It was not Hungary's choice to develop its pipeline system in this way, it was decided for us by the finalists of the world order after World War II. I, as I said, have dealt with green issues in the European Union, and I have seen how much the Hungarian government has done in the last ten years to make diversification of energy supply a reality, but these things are not just a matter of one country. Here, the willingness of the partners and many other world trends depend on whether or not to achieve this. And here the oil embargo has turned this into a flesh and blood reality, a fact that countries cannot be forced to commit suicide. And as I thank Mr Lóránt Keresztes for his contribution, even the environmental aspects would be contradicted by the fact that now hundreds of millions of euros of resources have to be included in the transformation of refineries, European refineries, which will continue to refine fossil energy, which, in the long term, is not for the purpose of meeting green targets. So here we need to progress much more strategically, much more prudently, much more rationally, and not based on ideology-driven or international trends. So, ladies and gentlemen, I like to express European values, I tell you honestly, because this is what is always being used against us, and at the end of every debate, I say to the foreign debate partner that he really has a problem with Hungarian democracy, because on behalf of European values, the Hungarian people voted again in a democratic, fair, free and fair election for a national conservative direction. [[Gergely Harvesto: When was this?]] Moreover, not only has this support been repeated, but it has also been increased, and therefore the national conservative responses of the last 12 years to all the crises that have otherwise affected the European Union, think about migration, think about the virus, and think about the war, they have now given us the national conservative responses to which we have received a definite yes and support from Hungarian citizens. So this is the only principle for us, and this is in the spirit of which today's amendment of the law and amendment of the basic law has also been made. For a few sentences, let me respond to what has been said, to whom I have not yet done so. I would like to tell Mr Toroczkai, with a very direct answer, that Hungary is a member of the European Union and NATO, and that it will remain so, and there is nothing to add to that. This crisis caused by mass immigration has come up, doesn't it? Why is that not enough? It is also worth a bit of legal work here, someone said that we do too much legal work here, and I also thank Congressman Tordai for his praise to the colleagues of the Ministry of Justice: they work a lot, they are very good lawyers, if necessary, we can give training to anyone. It is important to know the details here because the crisis caused by mass immigration is a completely different type of legal framework that gives the government a completely different type of legal opportunity to act in a rule of law. They are not capable of dealing with the economic impact or the effects of the humanitarian disaster in a situation such as the Ukrainian conflict. It is completely different if we act on the basis that, as you suggested, it would not be a rule of law, which is why it is important that we now pamper the legal system, allowing us to provide answers in a constitutional and legal way, if necessary. The head of the Turda faction has been talking about all kinds of livelihood crises. What I see is that while everything in Europe is expensive and inflation is skyrocketing, here it protects Hungarian people by a food price stop and a petrol stop, and there is almost a 9 percent increase in pension on the horizon. So I think that, in relation to the protection of families, which Dániel Z. Karpát has so to say challenged or placed in a different perspective, the Hungarian government spends nearly double the average in Europe in support of families. This represents about 4-5 percent of GDP, which has never been seen anywhere in the world, and this government, I think, is the least likely to be accused of not standing up for families. I look forward to other suggestions, by the way, if you can get them to me in writing, I thank you. [[14.10]] There was a sentence like this from the head of the Turdai faction that he did not support the amendment because he did not trust us or have no confidence in us. Fortunately, it is not the fact that the leader of the Dialogue has confidence in the governing party, but that the Hungarian electorate has, and on 3 April this was a historical trust, which we respectfully thank from here. We hope that we can serve this trust, and we ask you to support this step so that we can equip Hungary to the challenges of a changing world. Last thought: in law school, I guess I'm not alone in this room, they've always taught me that the rigidity of the law and the dynamics of life, which is in constant contradiction with each other. The task of the legislator and the party responsible for governance is to reconcile this co-operation, the rigidity of legislation and the dynamics of life as smoothly as possible. This amendment of the basic law is necessary now so that Hungary can respond to an unexpected situation and protect families, protect Hungary's peace and security. Thank you so much for listening. Please support the amendment. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-10-72	Thank you very much, Secretary Judit Varga. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on regulatory issues related to the cessation of an emergency until closure. The government referral is T/27. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Azbej Tristan, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-05-10-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Crown Virus pandemic has caused the worst health and economic crisis in recent decades worldwide. The effects of the global crisis were felt everywhere, including in Hungary. However, Hungary's Government has acted with one of Europe's most effective vaccination programmes, as well as with its measures to protect the workplace and the economy, in order to manage and reduce the pandemic. In this crisis, the government's most important task is to protect the health and life of Hungarian people, and to reduce economic damage and to preserve jobs. The government could not allow the virus to paralyze the country, Hungary had to operate and it worked. In times of rabies, such as the corona virus pandemic, the key to successful defense is rapid and effective decision-making and enforcement, which the extraordinary legal order has made possible for the government. Now, after a decrease in the intensity of the epidemic, the normal procedure will be restored. However, in the event that 27/2021 on the announcement of an emergency and the entry into force of emergency measures an emergency under the Government Decree is terminated, the Fundamental Law provides that the government's measures in the extraordinary legal order will cease to exist, and the requirement for legal certainty therefore requires that the emergency and the emergency government decree will not be terminated unless appropriate transitional provisions are laid down. Dear Parliament, In the spirit of the above, the purpose of the bill before us is therefore to ensure that, in the areas covered by emergency legislation, Parliament regulates legal relations or legal expectations in the event of an emergency in order to ensure legal certainty, so that the regulatory transition is clearly and predictablely ensured and that the change in the regulatory environment is guaranteed by law. These provisions shall enter into force in the proposal with the end of an emergency situation under the Government Decree declaring an emergency and the entry into force of emergency measures. The bill covers a number of areas of law, since the protection against the disease situation caused by the corona virus is also required in so many areas of life. In the coming years, I would like to highlight some of these. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Today, when we face successive global challenges, it is important that society preserves its natural self-defense fabric, which is based on social unity and solidarity. These times drive us to take greater responsibility for each other, and we must pay particular attention to those who are most defenseless. The government must pay particular attention to its needy citizens, so the government will do its utmost to keep them close to their families as long as possible. Care for elderly family members, acquaintances, their support is an important and responsible task that needs to be adapted to changing circumstances and technology development. To this end, the Government has set up the Caretaker's Program to provide a new type of welfare service with modern emergency equipment and the 24-hour remote monitoring and dispatch service associated with it. The programme shall be drawn up in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. It supports the safer, independent lifestyle of older people by digital technology in the century. In connection with this programme, the bill includes the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and address, the law on identification methods replacing the identification mark and the use of identification codes, and the amendment of the social law, which, by adopting them, lay down the legal basis for the data processing processes necessary for the implementation of the Gondosóra programme. Dear Parliament, It is also intended to help the Hungarian labour market in several points of the proposal. On the one hand, it will establish the necessary rules of competence for the implementation of the GINOP priority labour market programme, which was announced in September 2021, to help re-launch the economy, and for the effective implementation of its evaluation process. On the other hand, the aim of the draft is also to maintain the regulation of the employment of third-country workers during an emergency, in line with the normal legislative order. It should also be pointed out that the rules on aid under the Emergency Government Regulation on compensation for self-employed workers remain applicable to the Emergency Temporary Rules Act. The bill also aims to ensure a transition between protection against the pandemic and exceptional measures taken to combat the epidemic on a number of health issues and the return to normal regulation thereafter. The draft intends to maintain for a period of three months the marketing authorisation for rapid tests and medical aids for self-control used to detect coronal virus infection, which, after the grace period, will once again be authorised only by a healthcare provider. In addition, the proposal also addresses the possibility of submitting an incapacity certificate by electronic means in order to reduce doctor-patient encounters during an emergency, while, once the emergency has ended, employers may accept only the incapacity certificate issued on paper once again. The proposal therefore provides a temporary opportunity for individuals to send electronic certificates issued at an emergency to their employers for another 30 days after the emergency has ended, thus facilitating the administration of citizens. For example, if a person is issued an electronic certificate in the last few days, he does not need to obtain it on paper again. The electronic forwarding of incapacity certificates was necessary due to the risks of data protection and credibility, but the replacement of paper certificates, which will fully comply with the electronic authenticity and data protection requirements, is being prepared to eliminate this. [[14.20]] In addition, the proposal also settles the situation that since vaccinations are already available and the acceptance of PCRs has become regulated, the measure whereby those returning home from countries not proposed for travel at an early stage of the coronal virus epidemic have automatically been quarantined in the home and were no longer required for this period in order to reduce travel abroad for private purposes. Dear Parliament, According to the proposal, the Parliament will continue to regulate relations in the event of an emergency in order to ensure legal certainty by providing an adequate period of preparation to overcome the difficulties caused by the epidemic and to return to our traditional lives. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-10-74	I welcome my fellow Members, the representatives of the government and all those who are helping to lead the meeting. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And now we're going to have the keynote speakers. I give the floor to Elijah Boglárka, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-10-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of the previous cycle, no one would have thought that one of the most memorable women's day gifts of 2022 would be the removal of the obligation to wear a mask. We may agree on this even if the nobility of showing respect for women has been or has been tried by the bureaucrats in Brussels. But we didn't think that the mask was not the period of Carsang, the fifth wave wasn't a walk by the water, and we wouldn't have thought of the incompetence by chance of an unnamed politician of an unnamed party. As well as the fact that the opposition is turning into a Gyurcsány-sect, which, instead of the joint removal of inevitable obstacles to Hungary's peace and security, is rolling stones, blocking the workers of the solutions, putting dust in their eyes and serving the vulnerable, respect for the exception. And they said it was dark when you were the only ones with your eyes closed. They didn't realize that the Parliament was meeting while you were attending it. They did not realise that the government had kept jobs while, in the midst of economic challenges, we managed to achieve the lowest unemployment rate of 3.6 per cent since the change of regime with a joint effort. They did not realize that the struggle was not for statistics, but for saving human lives. But in return, they proved that in trouble, not only does a friend get to know him, but also a fake. It is no coincidence that the day of the paramedics was not remembered by opposition representatives. Respect for all paramedics and all medical personnel. This opposition activity was evaluated by the Hungarian people with their votes on 3 April, as well as by the government's sacrificial work. I could also say thank you, because it became four-thirds, but on account of my responsibility for the Hungarian people, I urge more cooperation. Cooperation is not a matter of convenience, we are not living in the age of the debate of laws defining our everyday desires, desires and moods. The stakes are in the shadow of illegal migration, a pandemic without borders and the war in our neighbourhood, the security of the peace of the Hungarian people is no less. So the thanks came from those who recognized it and joined forces in the fight against the epidemic. After all, many of us have joined forces to prevent, where possible, the spread of the coronal virus, and we have slowed it down where possible, and we have supported the fight against infection with all the means available to us. We joined forces to protect people's health, protect jobs, strengthen families. We joined forces in the workplaces and the streets, in the villages and in the cities, and, honourable fellow Members, they could have joined forces here in Parliament, but by the time they reached a very different sense of cooperation, they were walking like a certain electric scooter in the shower: it was just a tragic comedy for themselves to amuse themselves and stumble others. Meanwhile, thanks to the mandate of the responsible representatives of the Hungarian Government, the Parliament, he acted in a timely manner and took the necessary measures to defend himself as quickly as possible. As Minister of State has said, Hungary has successfully fought the Crown Virus pandemic with one of the most effective vaccination programmes in Europe. As a result, we were able to say goodbye to the masks, and if we have a question about the crown, many of us can look for our dentist again. And thanks to the bill before us, with the end of the emergency, we can also create a framework for transitional provisions. Dear House, On 11 March 2020, the Government decided to declare an emergency in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law. However, according to the basic legislative standard, the government's emergency legislation could have remained in force for only 15 days. In order to continue and protect the health of citizens, it has proved necessary for the National Assembly to further authorise the Government to establish and maintain regulations containing extraordinary measures even if the Parliament could not meet due to the spread of the human epidemic. We're glad it didn't happen, and you can see that we're working to avoid it. We can celebrate democracy, because the legislative power is now withdrawing the authority given to the executive body, and I would even like to draw the attention of opposition representatives to the fact that they can not only celebrate but even vote in favour of the bill before us. Dear Parliament, However, before we accept this, we must thank the heroes of health care, doctors, nurses in hospitals, all the staff, as I mentioned earlier, paramedics, general practitioners and colleagues, who have been under a great burden all along. Thank you for your exemplary position in social care and institutions, teachers, police officers, public administration and trade workers. Thank you to all who bravely and faithfully practiced their vocation in the interests of the Hungarian people during the epidemic. We thank all citizens for their discipline and patience during the epidemic. At the same time, allow me to take this opportunity to express my deepest condolences to the victims of the plague. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal on the House's table aims to lay the ground for the abolition of the special emergency legal order in view of the stabilisation of the epidemiological situation. Of course, we cannot go without saying about legal certainty as one of the most important cornerstones of the rule of law. The principle of legal certainty requires that the termination of the emergency and the expiry of the emergency government regulation should not take place in the absence of appropriate transitional provisions. In view of the legal certainty and the legal requirements of the predictable regulatory environment, the aim of the bill before us is also to regulate relations and legal expectations in the event of an emergency so that the regulatory transition is clearly and predictablely ensured and that the regulatory environment remains unchanged by law. In order to ensure legal certainty, it is therefore necessary to lay down these rules, since the termination of an emergency and the expiry of emergency government regulations cannot take place without the establishment of appropriate transitional provisions. Dear House, Please allow me, without the need for completeness, to highlight, in addition to what the Secretary of State has said, the main points of the draft on the House's table, in an exemplary manner. The priority objective of the proposal submitted is to create the rights of persons and bodies with tasks related to the identification and other processing tasks of the system issuing a complete electronic death certificate. In particular, as the bill ensures consistency with the emergency legislation on expired documents, so that the identity card, driving licence and passport which expired or expires between 11 March 2020 and 31 May 2022 will be valid uniformly until 30 June 2022. The economic policy objective of the amendment to the law on the promotion of employment detailed in the bill and the provision of benefits to the unemployed is to ensure that in Hungary, jobs that are permanently unfulfilled are filled quickly, efficiently and transparently only with the assistance of reliable businesses from third countries. [[14.30]] I could also describe the detailed rules laid down in the proposal, but I do not wish to multiply the word, since the Secretary of State has presented it in exhaustive detail in his exposé. Dear Parliament, Finally, once again, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the challenges experienced in recent years and the decades ahead of us. For these reasons, it is particularly important that the proposals to serve Hungary's peace and security should be supported by the Hungarian legislation as widely as possible, regardless of party standing, aside from the various political-power considerations. The Fidesz Group supports the proposal submitted. I would ask all our fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-10-76	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-10-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, I don't want to push my limits, but still, Mr Vice President, allow me to make a personal remark before I begin the speech. I'm so happy to be here when you start your first session. I wish you every success in your work, perseverance and great, great spirit. Well... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: You can't criticize the president! Deterioration in opposition benches.]] We are also pleased to see Congressman Nacsa. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The last 12 years have taught us not to look at what Orbán and the Orbán government say, but what they do. The thing is, so we don't really care what you say about ending the emergency, because we see what you're doing in the bill, and we're afraid of what you're going to do. We see it's a salad law. To understand, it's a little bit like the craziest and most experimental mixed brandy, throwing everything that exists into it. After all, the Secretary of State and Mr Boglárka Illés also missed a lot of things in this bill, which lies before us, including the amendment of the bankruptcy law, the further facilitation of the construction of the Chinese railway by amending the Land Protection Act, the amendment of the Aviation Act, and even the amendments to the food chain. However, allow me to highlight one subject, because I know that I could talk about a lot of things, but I still feel that this is the most important thing, and what you have never mentioned before is deeply silent about it, and that is what Illés Boglárka may have been talking about with a sentence, a bill to facilitate employment. Interestingly, I have not heard from you in this House or during the campaign that the Orbán government wants to help Hungarian businesses with economic immigrants. I'm from Debrecen, watching the billboards on the way over. On only one billboard, I did not see that if you came to Hungary, you could work cheaper than the Hungarians, so you could take the work of the Hungarian workers. But no one here in this House, or in public television, has said that Fidesz businesses are getting away with the government's support for economic immigration in order to raise wages for inflation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Why didn't they tell us what they were making, what they were up to? Why are they hiding what's in their own law? Why don't you talk about making it easier for Hungarian labour agency companies to employ migrant workers from outside the EU in Hungary under cover of an emergency? Why? Why do they not tell the truth that they have lost control of both forint and inflation long ago, and therefore the only thing they can give and want to give to Hungarian businesses is the applicability of cheap foreign, specifically non-European workers? But interestingly, I didn't hear you argue that they make it easier for non-EU migrant workers to work in Hungary so that Hungarian businesses don't have to raise their wages, because instead of all their Hungarian workers, they will find an Eastern European or Asian person who will ask much, much less than their Hungarian counterparts. But I also did not hear you argue in favour of economic immigrants that they would not ask for a raise in the face of high food prices, nor would they be subject to the sections of the Labour Code, and, indeed, we know very well that they have little or no employees' rights. But in the same way, I have not heard you recommend economic immigrants outside the EU to Hungarian businesses instead of Hungarian people, to the workplaces of Hungarian people. Why didn't you talk about it, ladies and gentlemen? Why not tell the country and their own voters that there will be no wage increases in Hungarian companies because you are trying to secure cheap labour with economic immigrants? Why don't you tell us that instead of raising wages, there will actually be immigration, that instead of making a higher salary, there will be less earning migrant workers? Why didn't you talk about this during the campaign? Why didn't you talk about this during the campaign? You know... look at me, well, I'm not a Habony Árpád, so I'm gonna give you this idea for free, you don't have to pay billions for it. For example, they could now have the slogan that Fidesz is supporting immigration instead of raising wages. Feel free to put it on your blue billboards, the Habony works do it for massive billions, and I'll give it to you for free. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] Tell the truth to the Hungarians, you have the right to know that many of you are in danger because of your job, your job, your livelihood, because that is what you want to do, because what you are about to do is exactly what you are about to do. This is the end of the emergency, in which Hungarian companies do not have to raise their wages, replace their Hungarian workers with Belarusians, nota bene Bangladeshi migrant workers, because they already admit that you are preparing for this, and you have been accusing the whole world of years from George Soros through Gyurcsány to the entire left. You set a red carpet for economic immigrants coming from outside the EU, you want to speed up economic immigration so that it doesn't even appear in statistics, so it will happen through employment agencies. I know very well, you hope that this may only look like the few tens or 100,000 Hungarians who, at best, do not receive a raise because of you, will lose their existence and work, because you will make them cheap in the EU, a guest worker outside the European Union. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have a bad news: there is no election result here that many of you have boasted with this election result, there is no victory by lying, by cheating, of a superior party of government, after which we here, in the benches of the opposition, would quietly tolerate such a level of betrayal of the Hungarians. It is that which lies before us now, this bill is nothing more than a despicable betrayal; betrayal against every Hungarian man who lives from work, betrayal against every person who lives from wages and salaries. It's not enough that we're slowly buying at the store more expensive than any European worker, and then you're giving the Fidesz businesses another loophole instead of wage increases. This, honourable government representatives, is pure treachery, it is a betrayal of the honour of the Hungarian workers, of the work and of the work. So towards the end let me make a brief, more comprehensive comment on the spirituality of this bill that lies before us. At a place where the government is putting working people into despair, insecurity, just to help Fidesz businesses with the support of economic immigration, that is a sick system. That's where the government said a small company or company was set up two weeks ago. His profit is more important than the livelihood of a decent family man for 30 years, a very sick system, a mean and sick system from the bottom to the bottom of his head. [[14.40]] There is no nation, there is no country, there is no home, there is only one basically corrupt, vile and lying system, your system. We left-wing European Democrats are facing this whole system, your system. You know that very well. All lies have a price, and if this system is a liar, unfortunately the Hungarian families, the Hungarian workers and the Hungarian people will pay the price of this lie. We represent them in this House, as we have always done, and we will continue to tolerate the vile government measures that betray them. Because this is nothing more than treason, betraying the Hungarian people, Hungarian families and Hungarian workers, hidden in the salad law to eliminate the emergency. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-05-10-78	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-10-79	Thank you very much. At least now, following all parliamentary mediations, he could see why Zoltán Varga had fallen so badly in Debrecen and why the opposition had fallen so badly across the country. So, the way Zoltán Varga is acting now, and the way he usually does here in Parliament and beyond. Honourable Congressman, You're right about what you said here ten minutes ago, that a lot of laws are being amended by this current law, and you're right about that. From now on, I couldn't find any more, which would be true in your speech. But we know that power belongs to the people, and that's all right. It became clear on 3 April that the power belongs to the people, we have said this before, you have just softened it sloganically, and we were serious about it, and it will be in the next period. You mentioned unemployment data, workers' rights and economic immigration. Honourable Congressman, According to the latest public figures, unemployment is 3.8 percent in Hungary. If what you say is true, Hungarian workers would have been fired from their jobs to replace people from other countries, so they would be unemployed, honourable Member. 3.8 percent, one of the best figures in the EU is the Hungarian unemployment figure, honourable Member. So I understand that on the left, especially in the Gyurcsány fraction, the facts never disturb people in preparation for their speeches, but I would nevertheless like to point out that one of the European Union's best unemployment figures is after a coronal virus epidemic and the economic crisis caused by it, honourable Member. While we are talking about the Emergency Act and the bill that will end it, then, fellow Members, let us remember what kind of dog comedy you have played here in Parliament for two years. We have seen you say that you will vote in favour of the emergency, then you will not vote in favour, yet you will not vote in favour, there will be no credit moratorium, there will be no help for families raising children, there will be no 13th month retirement, there will be no tax relief, there will be no many, many decisions that have been included in these laws. You generally did not support these decisions. The fact is that in March 2020, our lives were turned upside down, the systems known to date stopped. We were faced with an unknown enemy in March 2020 that hit its head all over the world. This pandemic, which led to several waves, led to closure, led to decisions and led to difficulties that none of us had anticipated before March 2020. In January 2020, Hungary had the best economic data of all time. Thank God we're near him again, and in many places we've even exceeded that, haven't we, there's been record economic growth last year. When Hungary was governed by Ferenc Gyurcsány in the year after the crisis, economic growth was minus 7 percent, now plus 7 percent, honourable Member. There was less than 7 percent in 2009, and the war-torn Lebanon was only worse. The fact is, my fellow Members, that they are sitting on the other side of the horse. Hungary was able to conduct one of the fastest and most effective vaccination campaigns in Europe, precisely thanks to emergency measures. This was what Zoltán Varga said, remember: if you are vaccinated with a Chinese vaccine, let alone six million, there will be no one million vaccinees. We have already crossed six million, honourable Member, do not be disturbed by reality. [[Zoltán Varga: How many people died?]] We've crossed six million a long time ago. You said if you were vaccinated with a Chinese vaccine, there wouldn't be a million inoculated. [[Zoltán Varga: How many dead?]] There's Congressman Komáromi sitting behind you, who said you'd argue that the vaccine is better than the coronal virus. Dear fellow Members, Are you here to talk about emergency rules? You guys talk about vaccination programs? Are you talking about a coronal virus epidemic, fellow Members? ! Because we acquired vaccines from several directions, because of the fact that we also acquired Eastern and Western vaccines, we were able to achieve 50 percent of people in other countries before they were vaccinated. For the first time we could open terraces, first we could open shops, first we could open service providers, which saved many small and medium-sized enterprises. We had more than a month's advantage compared to the mainstream in Europe, and these are saved hairdressing shops, saved restaurants, saved convenience stores, saved businesses, saved jobs. Now he's so worried about jobs. You were not worried about jobs at the time, but you demanded an opening when you had to close and you demanded closure when you had to open, my honourable fellow Member. They always confronted professionals, always opposed the interests of the Hungarian people, and always confronted common sense. You have even been able to attack Müller Cecília in person and in faith, honourable Member. You were the man, I know at that committee meeting, because I was where you attacked Officer Muller Cecília, who worked night and day to preserve the health of Hungarian people, my honourable fellow Member. [[Zoltán Varga: 46,000 dead!]] As Debrecen, you were able to attack the vaccine factory in Debrecen. Debrecen! A vaccine factory that guarantees, in the long term, that, for example, in situations like these, when we live in the age of epidemics, we should be independent, not needing external assistance, but being self-sufficient, for example, in the production of vaccines on this subject. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that you despise Hungarian science, despise Hungarian experts, you say that Hungarian professionals are unable to develop vaccination because there is no need for a Hungarian factory. Of course you don't. Because Hungarian pharmaceutical specialists are excellent, Hungarian virologists are excellent, Hungarian doctors are excellent, and we thank you for your work during the pandemic. You just attacked them. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You don't mean that either!]] You made fake rescue videos on the day of the ambulance, fellow Members. We can remember Mr Korózs with a moment of silence, no longer a Member of Parliament, but this is your joint work. Kamuvideos and fake statistics are your joint work, honourable Members. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Sure!]] The fact is that you said that the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority cannot decide whether a vaccine is effective or not, only in Brussels. As Szabolcs Szabó just said, the EU will decide and the EU will decide on sanctions. He does not want to enforce Hungarian interests, and then the Union decides. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't read Mandiner. Szabolcs Szabó: I said joint decision! Let's quote you exactly.]] The Union will decide, and we will do it, honourable Member... [[Szabolcs Szabó: Together, the EU decides...]] He said the Union would decide. It is so clear from this answer that the point of the left is to be told from the outside, then the European Medicines Agency, then the European Commission, then the EU officials and then the US NGOs will tell you what to do, and then you will say it in Hungarian here in Parliament or in one of the TV studios. I understand, fellow Members, but this is not a representation of Hungarian interests. When we are here in a parliamentary debate, let us also remember that in March 2020 you started to spread in the international press that the Hungarian Parliament does not work. They began to lie in international media that the Hungarian Parliament does not even meet, and there is a dictatorship that Parliament is no longer needed. And this was said by Members with whom I have argued here at night and at night about various legislative proposals. They said that the Hungarian Parliament does not work. For example, one of the members of the Gyurcsány group said that we are preparing for a kingdom here, my fellow Members. Well, take yourselves seriously. Now, in the bill on the closure of an emergency, this is the time to apologize to the Hungarian people. Apologize for launching a pro-Gyurcsány petition against Eastern vaccines... [[Zoltán Varga: When did 46,000 victims apologize?]] It was a collection of signatures on DK's website, honourable Member. You have put forward a decision to ban Eastern vaccines. They wanted to ban some vaccines. Right now, there's an opportunity to apologize to paramedics, doctors, pharmacists, virologists. [[Zoltán Varga: Apologize to the 46,000 victims!]] and the Hungarian people who would have been cut off from vaccinations just because your coercion dictated otherwise. [[14.50]] I ask my fellow Members to do this because they owe it to the Hungarian people, because no one of you has apologized for fake statistics, kamuvidos, accusations that Parliament doesn't work, that we want a kingdom, that I don't know what different accusations none of you have apologized for. This debate is the perfect opportunity for Zsolt Gréczy, Szabolcs Szabó, Zoltán Varga, Dániel Z. Kárpát, György Lu-kács to apologize for what has been falsely distributed in connection with the emergency, the coronal virus epidemic and the false distribution of vaccinations. [[Noise, constant interruptions from opposition lines.]] I did not mention Mr Vajda because he was not here as a Member when we discussed the emergency, but as I see his activities in public life, there will also be nice quotes about him, we can all be sure of that. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the decisions that are included in this bill are decisions taken by the government during an emergency. Because of legal continuity and legal certainty, it is necessary for Parliament to transpose them into the legal order, because otherwise they would fall into the air without soil, there would be nothing of them, those processes would be interrupted, those investments would be interrupted, those decisions would be interrupted; for example, the Gondosóra project of the elderly would be interrupted if Szabolcs Szabó were to depend on Szabolcs Szabó, then the older people of Csepel would not be given a careful watch to help and make their lives easier. My fellow Members here, Mr Boglárka Illés and Minister of State, have already said a number of such measures, if it were up to you, if you did not vote for this law, then these measures would not enter into force after 31 May. I ask you not to do this because of us, not because we are asking you to do this because of your own voters, because of the Hungarian people, and then we can go further, and the measures that are in the interest of the Hungarian people can remain in force until now and will continue to be in the interests of the Hungarian people. We're gonna vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-10-80	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-10-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I am very pleased that there may be an end to the proposals for emergency and emergency permits and the discussion of the measures to be taken here, even because there is no need to go into the apology give-and-takes that Lőrinc Nacsa regularly tells us. But if you quote me on a regular basis, let me quote you on why an apology could be made. In September 2020, Viktor Orbán said that we count on the success of the defense in a man's life. 46,000 people died in Hungary. There was a time when Hungary was the world leader in deaths per million people, and it had the saddest statistics. Or you could apologize to Gregory Gulyás, who is sitting in that chair and who is not here, who said first that everyone in this room could infect themselves with this virus, then nothing would happen, and then 46,000 people died. Or you could also apologize for the fact that Viktor Orbán allowed the virus to dictate the pace during the epidemic, because often economic interests were more important than the protection of people's lives. Then they could apologize to those who couldn't get decent medical care during the epidemic because they simply couldn't get into hospitals. And however we pervert it, let's see, you may even have friends of your own family members who have had a very difficult time getting into health care, whether it's dental care or the most basic GP. We could apologize for these, too, but let's finally get past this apology and this cluttering part of each other, and let's get down to what's going on with the emergency, and let's talk about the bill. The thing is, I'm glad this is here, it was supposed to be weeks, months ago. From the epidemiological defense, as we progressed, it became more and more certain that the country's set-up, the learning process that it learned from the first wave through the second wave, the third wave, and as people learned how to defend themselves made it unnecessary, after a while, to have an explicit mandate for you, and to keep your own legislation and legislation essentially bypassing Parliament in the face of an emergency. The fact that we have come back here, we have always discussed the rules on the extension of an emergency, in which there have always been a lot of inappropriate legislation, it has proved that this was not about defence, but about maintaining power, the structure of power, and that all the rules have been written. And this is no different in the current bill, for example, to explain to me how a rule on the removal of an emergency will be included in order to have a special permit for the drone deployment of MTVA and not to apply the rules on flying objects. What does this have to do with ending an emergency? In addition to the drone flight of MTVA, you can write here that otherwise the drone flight of Mediaworks or the Pesti TV pardon, they are just passing away, probably, so much demand for their work. Anyway, this is where we tell the Pesti TV people and the Pesti Guys to remember to pay the damages and not to submit the bills they owe us for the next period. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] They are already giving this request to their friends, and we are happy to ask for these millions of people to sponsor us on a regular basis. But to come back, it is very important that we are here, and I also see that an earlier mistake is admitted in this proposal. And this mistake was that you were tied to the existence of the vaccine by a very large number of people, perhaps even more than justified, in order for someone to do a job. Life has shown that many have chosen another profession because they have either disappeared from education or from any educational institution, or have retired early, or have simply left the country, because their work has been hindered by the fact that they have taken or are not taking vaccination according to their conscience. In this connection, the rule here proves that it should be given an opportunity, and perhaps it is right that they should be able to return to their place of work as soon as possible, and perhaps one of the common denominators is that in health and social institutions where they are working with patients who are really at risk or with caregivers who need to protect their health and the protection of their workplace, we should talk about these obligations, and not in places where, by the way, a lot of people could leave educational and educational work in places that are already understaffed. The other thing is absolutely important, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State here: XCIX 2021. in paragraph 147, where it is established that there is a freezing of a fee until 30 June 2022, this means the freezing of charges for local governments and other institutions. What's your plan on this? Is this Marade, so until this date, or will it be extended, or will it be possible to increase the local government fees? We saw a little rule in it that you guys are gonna change, like, two. One is the possibility of raising daycare awards for daycare institutions introduced after the summer of 2020. These are those who are open, established on the move, and yet in some way must be adapted to their remuneration for food as well as for real numbers. The other is the exception of public baths. If I remember correctly, there is also an exception to this in the current bill, i.e. that baths, public baths that have not been able to raise fees, have the opportunity to raise them. But the global question here is that the municipalities will have the opportunity to raise their fees after 30 June 2022, i.e. on 1 July or they will not be able to raise their fees. Is this also important because it is important for these municipalities to know what they can expect when planning or implementing their own budgets: what they have planned or can be corrected during the process at the beginning of the year? Adding to the fact that, in a very difficult economic situation, municipalities are always aware of the burden-bearing capacity of the population, but we also see that they have been affected by very serious withdrawals in recent years. Here, I think we have also come to the next point about what we are happy about and what we are going to do about the emergency and what we really should be happy about, but we need to clarify what will happen to those who have lost their jobs because of the rules. There is no promise or method of settlement in the bill. Or what about those who took away a good part of their farming from the municipalities? How will they be compensated, how will they be helped in the coming period? Or are those who have waited years to choose a local representative, for example, going to say something to those people, so that they don't be angry that they waited two years, and now they have to choose a representative this summer? What about the local public affairs that could not or could not have progressed? Or are you prepared, and how do we treat people whose documents have expired? By the way, horribile dictu cars with two years of expired documents may be in circulation, and there may be documents that have not demonstrated the identity of that person for two years. [[15.00]] One of the most important things in this regard is not the public credibility with which it is attached, but the burden on the administrative staff, who have to replace these documents, the public administration is prepared to deal with this burden. Let us hope that we are not going there now, and this is part of the previous agenda, that, with some new legislative mandate, you are preparing to re-introduce some kind of regulation legislation, and that we are once again there to have such and similar legal restrictions. What I would like to say is that, if nothing else, the resolution of emergency, emergency exit and legal issues can only give us liberation from the fact that these barren debates, why anyone has to apologize for, and through what political prism they look at, we can finally conclude and deal with how this country will be a safe country, a living country in which everyone feels at home, regardless of whether they are right-wing or left-wing thinking, who does not have to think along cart camps, but just wants to live a decent, normal Hungarian life, think along common sense, and want to make a decision with a Hungarian heart, because now these debates are all poisoned. And here you see today, and obviously the winner has every right not to be too stylish in every speech you have so far used and felt as if in this country the one who lost in a political race would be a multi-level national of the country. From your behaviour today, my fellow Members, it is reflected that this is your view of the people who did not vote for you. The only reason I mention this is because if I feel this way and I may be disappointed in it or am disappointed in optical disappointment, believe me, those who have followed this debate and did not vote for you feel the same way, and in this country it would not be the common denominator that you, as winners, communicate with these people from a rather high level, but that in the right of the winner, they should start with some kind of consolidation and start building a Hungary with a human face. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-05-10-82	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Szabolcs Szabó, the lead speaker of the Momentum Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-10-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I tried to take today seriously, we read the proposal together, several of us, I wrote a speech, and now I even put on the microphone, and then the problem is that Congressman Nacsa always comes, and then he always distracts me from the point, because that's where Congressman Flame was sitting, who stood up when he could have been, forty-fifty minutes ago? And he said that he didn't know what had happened, that the rules had changed, that it wasn't about the amendment of the law, and then Mr. Nacsa, who was busy talking about us on the opposition side. This is an interesting solution for me, because first of all, let us discuss between ourselves what a general debate should look like. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We will!]] I'd like to add that as an introduction, yes, yes, we should discuss that here. On the other hand, it is also a relatively interesting solution that Congressman Nacsa, in the general debate where, I say, his fellow Member, should talk about what the proposal is about, starts to tell me that I represent foreign interests and say what the Union wants; if I understand correctly, that is what he wanted to say. Just so you understand, one of your propagandaists pushed the microphone under my nose when I told him five times that I was in a hurry, I'd be right back, and then I'd answer in more detail, but he kept pushing, and I dared to remember so much about the embargo, which, by the way, doesn't add to this subject, that I have to make a joint EU decision on this and I went to my business. In particular, we are members of the Union, so the Union is not an external interest. I would point out if you did not know that a single decision must be taken in this matter at the Council meeting. There is the Hungarian Prime Minister, he is also involved in this process, and I indicate that they are negotiating in English, there is no interpreter there. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] I will also be happy to tell you in English, if you tell me what Viktor Orbán was discussing, only it is not public. So I'd like you to check with him on that. I only brought this up so that we could take ourselves seriously enough to say things like this in at least two minutes, because it just distracts the debate from the point of view. [[Nacsa Lawrence: I'm taking notes!]] I'd be honored. And then the point is, if I were to mention Mr Nacsa in the beginning: he also said that this whole set of legislation that the government has brought in the emergency situation would fall to the ground if we did not now put it into law. You were right about that, but the problem is that many of us criticized it. We said that the Parliament should make this decision, and we believe that it is not normal that these laws, which are very significantly not directly related to the epidemic situation, were made by the government in a virtually uncontrollable manner by declaring the emergency. 'Cause, right, what's happening? When there is no emergency and there is no regulation governance, while we have no idea what is going on until it is submitted, but at least a bill is put before Parliament, we see it on the E-Course, read it, there is a codified text behind it, there is at least an explanation in writing, we see something about it, it normally goes through a legislative process that we all know here: a general debate, a detailed debate, it is discussed in the TAB, it comes back to the discussion and we vote on it; it is three weeks, but it is at least somewhat transparent. What happens during an emergency? Someone stands up at the government briefing and says they're people, that's the decision. Who suggested why, how, on what basis, we don't know anything, is incomprehensible, and they did it in a professional way, and worse, we read it in the Gazette, because they don't even say it in words. So that's one of the main problems. The other is that this is a perfect example of how much it doesn't matter to you to negotiate and to dialogue, because even in the normal legislative process, I always ask him when I have the opportunity, and there is, say, a minister who undertakes to bring in a bill as an author, to tell me who you have consulted, because the legislation has a legislative environment, right, it's a little broad that needs to be discussed. Now, in most cases, it's usually about going to the State Secretarys, and I don't even know who we talked to. The Secretary of State doesn't know either, and then if it's hard to get something out of them, it's papered out by some fraternity association. That's all that's wrong. [[A statement from the opposition.]] That the logic of the law would follow, yes, that LIGA is the one who is often turned to from the logic of the legislation, that I also agree with the one I disagree with. So that's the basis for not consulting anyone. Now, we have come to the conclusion that, on the grounds of the emergency situation in place in the vast majority since March 2020, you are not even doing so, but are making legislation in a completely incomprehensible way. And now, just so you understand, what happens if someone still follows these completely secret laws, we have no idea, laws or laws that were born in the form of government decrees, bring them here, and do not fall to the ground, as Congressman Nacsa has said, are now being put into law. That's the main problem with all of this that's right in front of us. And then, just so you understand, we are talking about more than 40 pieces of legislation here. I say, there is also a law on health care and health services, but there is a law on public finances, a law on strategically important economic entities, a law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, a law on the rules of temporary agency, a law on the protection of cultural heritage, a law on the Constitutional Court, a law on postal services, so it's quite amazing what you've been thinking about. If we look at an area here, for example, we could ask why it does not disappear, for example, and why we do not drop it on the ground to quote a classic, the so-called reorganisation procedure in company law. [[15.10]] This is what the National Reorganization Nonprofit Ltd. is doing, isn't it? is eligible. This is the company that coordinates liquidations from the state side and economically supervises them. This company and its leader were the ones who came up with the 2020 liquidation tender, which could be called rather scandalous, and which, by the way, was used to nationalise the liquidation system. Reorg Kft. appoints an expert to clean up companies under reorganisation. In practical terms, a state-controlled bankruptcy is being conducted, theoretically, to save companies. It's just that saving in quotes actually means that they're going to boost the company with government credit, replace its owners, and that's the kind of NER entrepreneurs that get good companies. They're not gonna drop that on the ground, and they're gonna legislate it. And that's when you always ask yourself, isn't it, that this has nothing to do with the coronal virus epidemic, what they're trying to steal, so what they're looking at. Because of such and similar issues, the question is constantly why you need regulation governance. Because, I'm telling you, this has been going on with minor interruptions since 2020, and from the amendment of the Constitution on the previous item on the agenda and from the amendment of the Disaster Protection Act, it was clear to everyone that this was what they wanted to do anyway. Because it's not such a common thing to hop, it's the seventy-fourth day of the war that we've remembered there's a war, so we're going to draw the frames so that we might need it later, because this, let's say, could have been the first day or the seventh or the tenth day. Seventy-fourth? Obviously, they did it because this amendment to the Constitution came before the House because they would accept it. Then, when this medical emergency or this epidemiological emergency runs out, this war emergency will come in, and we'll go on with the regulation. And in the same way they make laws without transparency, which, at times, as they do now, will be brought in here in the form of such a salad law and introduced into the Hungarian legal order, saying that we should not put them on the ground. Well, that's the main problem, isn't it? What I see in particular is that you are simply in love with the rule of law. That must be a hell of a thing to do. I'll sign this, fast, efficient. They told me, wow, that's very fast, very good, effective of course! But then we don't even have to have this debate, which is here, but they do, and then every six months we argue about one of these salad laws. My memory is sometimes good, sometimes not, but I remember, for example, that László Kövér said this already in 2013 how good it would be to extend the scope of government legislation. They didn't find this catch for a while, but in 2020 the solution was a great one: the emergency was introduced. And, I'm telling you, it's been going on and on and on and on and on and on and on. And just so there is no misunderstanding: I said that already in March 2020 and there were many of us here on opposition sides who said that this is not a good direction if we introduce it in this way, in this form. Because the Minister said that, in relation to the previous item on the agenda, that, of course, this is true, that the government can introduce it for 15 days, and then the Parliament can authorise an extension. We said, of course, to extend it, because 15 days is not enough, let's just add a limit, let's say 60, 90, 120, whatever it is, put some in it. You said that no, it was introduced with an unlimited expiry date, and en blog us and opponents were told that we were the hoofy devil who hindered the epidemiological action. We only indicated then, and I myself have indicated that the unlimited introduction of regulation governance is not acceptable, it does not correspond to the legislative practice and traditions of the 30 years since the change of regime, it will be wrong, believe me. And I think we're right, we're here in 2022, and right now it's running out, and the new war's coming, and I don't know how long it's gonna take. So all I can say is that a responsible Member of Parliament and a responsible faction cannot support regulation governance and can simply not support such salad laws associated with it. Return to the normal legislative process, this is the solution, follow the 30-year practice of the Hungarian Parliament! Thank you for listening.
u2022-05-10-84	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Zoltán Vajda, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, who wishes to make his contribution here. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-10-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This is my first speech here in this House, and it seemed to me that such a salad law gave me this opportunity, even in the event of such an emergency. In recent years, in addition to the walls of the Parliament, there has been a great deal of hearing these two words: salad law and emergency, and I think they described the activities of the previous government best. Because the emergency caused by the coronal virus was filled with content by the regulation government, and this particular salad law, which, let's face it, I think is a good level of Fidesz legislation in itself. Because that's when journalists sometimes race against each other on Tuesday nights, who finds a well-hidden pig in the paragraph sea first, and who will decide the reading record the next day with the headlines. Dear House, Let's move on to this proposal. The amendment submitted concerns a number of areas of expertise, which in itself raises questions, doesn't it? On the one hand, as I said, in such a complex legislation, it is always easier to hide the unpopular austerity stages, and on the other hand, this is an inevitable trap, because a single unacceptable amendment can force the whole proposal to be rejected, even if it has elements that are eligible. In addition to formal issues, a number of specific proposals need to be clarified. First of all, the transitional provisions set out the final deadline for suspensions and moratoriums for former people in need, but this does not mean that the government will provide a solution for those who will fall from the existing crutches. This affects tens of thousands of people. So the problem will be swept under the carpet again instead of real government assistance. The rapidly increasing economic crisis, the speeding, double-digit inflation, is clearly two figures, and today was published by the HCSO today that 9.5 percent of the population is more vulnerable due to the year/year inflation in April. Therefore, these changes will be even more serious for those living in the most difficult situation. For them, there is no way out by the government, so their further deepening poverty is, unfortunately, predictable. I am convinced that this path could only be prevented with social benefits of adequate quality and broadened access, with valuable benefits. But unfortunately, many good things cannot be expected of those affected, as the government has always saved on the poorest in recent years. Among other things, the freezing of the pension minimum proves this: every four years before the campaign period, you may provide something for the Hungarian families, but you do it only on credit. This has doubled the amount of Hungarian government debt since they came to government. Dear House, I do not think there is much to thank for the other proposals for amendments; we do not find much to help the situation of those in distress, unfortunately, on the contrary, the question marks are gathering among the planned measures. [[15.20]] I'll give you an example, okay? It is not clear why the additional support for the orphans of defence employees will cease. It is proposed to abolish this from 2019, which was introduced in 2020. supply for orphans of deceased military personnel, similar to additional support for orphans of deceased soldiers. And you simply claim, as a reason for the measure, that no other public service relationship contains a similar form of support. Do you think that's a valid reason? This was already known in the creation of the aid to be abolished. The only thing that's clear is that you're trying to deprive the orphans of the deceased military employees of the support that they've received so far, without any reasonable reason. This proposal cannot serve the interests of Hungarian families in any way, and it is therefore totally unacceptable. In view of this, I would like to announce that we are going to propose an amendment so that you do not abolish this care. Dear House, It also raises a serious question that during the digitalisation programme for the security of people with limited capacity for self-sufficiency, the data of the participants are the Social Policy Innovation Public Benefit Nonprofit Kft. If you have any further questions on the use of this product, ask your doctor or pharmacist. This is a project called the Caretaker's Hour Program, which is, by the way, honorable, because it is intended to allow elderly people to contact the contact person they have predicted, who can help quickly in case of trouble. It is not clear, however, why the management of always sensitive personal data is transferred to a kft., why the Hungarian State continues to treat them in a non-transparent manner. And the concern is not a coincidence, and my personal concern is not a coincidence, because we remember you well, I hope, too, that you will remember the current campaign when, in my constituency, the 16th century. The district, in Kertváros, received a campaign call from the government parties through the watch of those taking part in the watch, and the caller was forced to listen to the message from the Fidesz headquarters, since he could not even get the call. They've abused the situation of vulnerable people, I think it's a terrible thing they've done. Dear Parliament, For me as Budapest XVI. The situation of the municipalities is particularly important, as is the case with the former municipal representative, as well as the individual winner of Zugló-Alsóros. In my first speech, I would therefore like to take this opportunity to promise that I would also like to work for the good of the municipalities in this term. For this reason, I would like to focus specifically on the sections concerning local authorities, because some experts believe that the proposal does not anticipate much good for the local government world. Even in December 2020, their measure was published in the Hungarian Gazette that the government forbade municipalities to raise local taxes and other charges in 2021 and does not allow the introduction of new ones. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] Well, then, according to this proposal, only public baths, as defined by law, will be exempted from the municipal fee ban. There is a legitimate question, then, that all of this would indicate in advance that the ban will be maintained for all other awards. Because if that's the case, our settlements will continue to bleed out consciously. So it was not enough to withdraw the part of the car tax on the municipalities, the solidarity contribution increased several times in Budapest, the halving of the business tax, the increase in taxes on public utility lines, the withdrawal of money and the tax, so only the government has the right to raise taxes, but even today's inflation does not allow the municipalities to obtain new resources, again, in the midst of double-digit inflation. This happens then, despite the fact that in the event of the crisis, all countries are highly supportive, not punishing local governments, because they know precisely that they are the first to apply for help at the local mayor's office. Therefore, the measures that hit the local governments will ultimately be taken away from the needy Hungarian families, and the Hungarian people, the Hungarian people in distress, will be hit. Dear House, On the basis of what has been said, it is clear that the proposal raises a number of questions, a great deal of planned measures need to be explained and, therefore, in order to be eligible, these contradictions must be clarified. Thank you very much for listening to my first speech. [[Applause in the ranks of DK, Jobbik and Momentum.]]
u2022-05-10-86	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to notary Dávid Dócs, the lead speaker of the group of our countries. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-10-87	Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, Thank you for the floor. My first speech in this House, let me begin by thanking the confidence of more than 330,000 of our countrymen and voters, including the support of the Western Nogradians, who voted in the country for our country, who voted for me most, thanks to whom I can stand here in the church of the nation. During the day, we could hear a great deal of self-gratification, acidification, and a complete political pole exchange. They will agree, however, that I will not be too popular with either party with what I have to say; let us say, I am not here to present to this House the views of those who have suffered the last two years who think differently from you. And today is the day of birds and trees, but there are a lot of us who don't like to be treated like birds and treated like trees. And I'd like to share what I have to say with you about the Crown Virus that has left this summer's holiday, if I may. As you know, two years ago, all of our lives changed from something to something that we know little about today, but one thing is certain: the facts that have been constantly revealed give rise to the conclusion that this something is not the work of chance, but rather a modern age offensive in the image of a premeditated and labized virus on humanity, an attack that collectively affects everyone in the world, including in Hungary. [[Z. Carpathia to Dániel Nacsa Lőrinc: Lőrinc, do not get on the phone!]] And not only the virus, but its consequences, the measures, closure, coercion have clouded all of our lives. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] We are not a virus denigator, we are just sober-thinking people who discover and recognize relationships, people who have been confused with hundreds of thousands of our countrymen about the meaningless and exaggerating measures, the curfew, the destruction of small players in the economy, or the limitation of people's lives that come to mind the movie Lost Time. Unfortunately, however, the Hungarian government has not stopped insanity here, because, although you believe that vaccination is not mandatory in Hungary, many of the Hungarian health care professionals have lived like violence, even more of the workers of the public sector or, in accordance with your mandate to employers, have been vaccinated with vaccinations imposed on workers. Indeed, this cannot be called compulsory, because it is not, but highly recommended, because people have been blackmailed with their existentiality, and those who have not allowed this blackmail have become completely insecure with their families, and this is a family support programme! In the recent days, the draft 69-page salad law, which is now widely mentioned, has been published on Parliament's website, consisting of 115 paragraphs and is about regulatory issues related to the end of an emergency. It contains many things, but what is interesting to us now is the 11th one. § 2 of the Act on the introduction of compulsory vaccinations in public institutions, state institutions, higher education institutions, law enforcement and defence workers, state cultural institutions, the child protection sector, the social sector and public administration. After that, we can really say that vaccination was not mandatory in our country. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) [[15.30]] Under this law, employers will also be given the opportunity to dismiss workers and Hungarians with families who have been banished to unpaid leave of work, where they have been practicing their profession, but by giving them a nice Christmas present on 15 December at the latest, they will certainly lose their jobs so far. Well, I don't think they'll understand the slogan that you leave anyone on the side of the road. And the left-wing cooperation, which has quickly failed in a predictable way, is now more worthy of the name of disintegration, which, in the interest of the Hungarian people, is louder than the sound of their voices, than just the scandals, who beat the government in everything, but are silent on this subject, or even if they are speaking, they are not raising their voice against it, simply because they want to outbid the absurd measures already. On this subject alone we, our country, are left on the side of people who, because of their conviction or short notice, do not want to be vaccinated with any experimental drugs, but who are willing to take full exile from society and their usual lives. We alone raise our voice against the WHO Treaty and its effects and dangers, which would completely eliminate our remaining sovereignty and even decide on another continent completely above our heads, under the cover of a provoked war. We say that we have had enough of all the actions of the Covid dictatorship; we have had enough of making certain participants of the economy impossible; we have had enough closure. Enough of the conflicting measures; enough of the forced, compulsory vaccinations; enough of the blackmail; enough of the clowning with IDs; enough of the stigmatizing and discrimination of uninfected children; enough of their unjustified Quarantine, their ban on child sports; enough of the theft of their childhood; enough of the punishment they receive for being healthy. Simply put, we protect our children from them! Our country is against all mandatory vaccinations, extortion and coercion. We urge the government to take responsibility and compensate for the inoculation victims. Instead of further increasing public debt, the government should, on the basis of proposals, finally levy an epidemic solidarity tax on the beneficiaries of the Crown Virus, who, unlike small entrepreneurs, have not been destroyed, but profited from the past period. We object to any discrimination; do not draw another fault line among the Hungarian people! In our view, and based on the experience of the last two years, we want to make sure that no one is forced to take the Covid shots, so that people can decide for themselves. Don't make anyone impossible without it, because no one is less. No one should be discriminated against; no one should lose his job in the absence of it; no one should be wasted any more of his time, his life. This is why we protested in front of the Prime Minister's office in the Castle in Buda, in several parts of the capital and in the countryside, as most Hungarian people made it clear that they did not request any further vaccinations or coercion or extortion, since much more than half of the population had rejected it and did not request the third vaccination. So far, we have raised our voice on the streets for our fellow citizens, and then we will be able to hear our voices within the walls of the Parliament, as a single party in this and all other matters that the other political parties do not want to put on the agenda. With the end of summer and autumn approaching, we do not want things to start again; we do not want to see more waves drifting from one another to another; we do not want this whole circus to start again. Anyone who thinks it's just a simple virus created by a bat or a bat who thinks that the measures taken are unplanned, not made in a script, in a witch's kitchen, is totally wrong. There's a modern-day war going on against humanity, normality, laws of nature and everything that's ever been normal and human. We're seeing a coordinated attack by the self-proclaimed rulers of the world against all mankind. We can see how economic crises are growing out of speculation, artificial economic manipulation; we can see an all-invading war of identity waged against us as they hide behind a virus and take measures and decisions citing wartimes; and finally, we can see how the self-proclaimed masters of the world instigate a group of brothers hiding behind puppets' decisions. This is what we are now witnessing, and we will do everything we can to protect our beloved country from these processes, our Hungarian brothers and sisters anywhere in the Carpathian Basin and our normality. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2022-05-10-88	Thank you very much, Congressman Dócs. I now give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We now have a salad law on the closure of an emergency in connection with a coronal virus epidemic. I think that, regardless of political affiliation or party standing, we should all express our gratitude to all those who have worked in this difficult situation in recent years to preserve the health and safety of the Hungarian people, so I would like to begin by thanking them with respect for their work, thanking them for their work in recent years and for their work today. As has already been said, of course, on behalf of Fidesz's lead speaker, Mrs Illés Boglárka: today is the day of Hungarian rescues for the Hungarian rescuers, for the people who are working to protect the lives of Hungarian people, I thank them with respect for the work. I would like to point out to the Member that, unlike what she has said in her speech, I have done this regardless of today's debate. I think that we are talking about a sufficiently fresh Member, Congresswoman, and I do not know that you have written your speech, but I think that this is certainly not a good way to draw trust from each other in such a way that we sincerely thank the people who work for all of us Hungarian people. I do not think that this is a good way to go if we withdraw this, or discuss this with each other, that we are all here with good intentions and in the interests of the Hungarian people. Well, I can be less lenient with Congressman Nacsa, who has been debating Parliament's sittings over the past period, and indeed, we have often argued with each other at night, and he knows precisely that in his speech today he has expressed a great deal of untruths and many lies. It is sad to draw attention to this, but I think that it is not possible to leave out these lousy allegations, especially since their reality left a lot to be desired. The fact that there were a lot of speeches on the opposition side, in connection with the coronal virus epidemic and the closures, which were unfounded and which we disagreed with, but I think that at a time when a pro-government representative said here at the meeting of the Hungarian Parliament that the opposition was on the side of the virus, I think that it cannot be overcome in a negative sense. So I think that both sides are responsible for the tone that has unfortunately developed here in recent years, but there is no way to go there, and there is no way to make statements that only the opposition is responsible for this. Congressman Nacsa gave a long discussion about opposition representatives hurting and attacking Hungarian professionals, such as virology professionals, and that opposition representatives did not allow them to do their job, which is unfounded. I have not heard such a statement in the debates of recent years from opposition representatives, unlike, say, a government secretary of state, who, after the first wave and before the second wave of coronal virus epidemics, said in the press that the virology professor of Pécs, elected as the leader of the research group you have appointed, was alarmed, and said in October 2020 that the numbers had stabilized. I think we all know exactly what tragedies have been caused by the corona virus epidemic in Hungary since the second wave, how many have lost their family members, and let us compare this with this irresponsible statement. So I think, when Congressman Nacsa here asks the opposition to apologize for these supposed statements, he should have started with a very influential member of the government, as well as other government members who made very irresponsible statements here at the beginning of the epidemic period, for example as regards the risks caused by the epidemic. [[15.40]] Referring also to the thoughts of Mrs Boglárka Illés about what the government has used the emergency here for; but let us start with the way in which the opposition has taken on this extraordinary, truly unprecedented situation. I myself, as a group leader, was part of the discussions that started with a view to putting aside party political affiliation and trying to create a situation, a cooperation that we can do as much as possible to protect the health of Hungarian people. I remember these discussions, the first meetings, that they were truly constructive. So I have also seen from pro-government politicians, I have seen the intention of trying to create some kind of national consensus in a situation where none of us could have known how serious this would be. We have seen the terrible circumstances in Lombardia in northern Italy, and it is right to say to everyone that the effects of this epidemic here are impenetrable. I have also experienced the interruption of these negotiations from one moment to the next because of some kind of power-technical intention, and, as my fellow Members have referred to it, once, as a dictatorship, the government introduced this emergency regulation, which did not accept any time-limit or restriction. At the time, we indicated a million times that we consider it important to create the conditions for rapid action, but the Hungarian people, not even us, expected us to have some kind of time limit. We offered everything, we would have agreed to every option, you simply tied the dog to the stake, and you said you wanted to vote for it without a time frame, using your two-thirds opportunity, and you specifically made this situation a political asset, and you pushed the opposition to the other side, and you simply rejected this kind of cooperation. I think that this was unworthy, and I do not think that this was expected either from the government side, nor from the opposition side, the Hungarian people, so that in such a crisis, the Hungarian Parliament would be loud with the noise of political battles. I thought it was extremely bad that this was the way it turned out. I myself and myself have indicated in all my comments, for example, in relation to vaccinations, but as a reaction to Congressman Nacsa, that we believe that all vaccinations are better than disease, and we have always said that we trust the home professionals and have encouraged everyone to take vaccination. So I think that after that, Mr Nacsa's statements were certainly irresponsible. The second time the opposition voted in favour of the extraordinary legal order: after the second time, one of the first measures was a series of brutal restrictions on the municipalities, so the government, by decree, distracts a lot of resources from the municipalities, which played a key role in the fight against the epidemic and in supporting people in difficult situations. And we have seen that the measures taken at that time in the extraordinary legal order have now been incorporated into law, in virtually a significant part extended and held as a general provision in the laws, so, in particular, the local government restrictions and municipal withdrawals have already been incorporated into legislation in this way. But it was also visible that, in addition to the local government restrictions, the opposition proposals, which were intended to help the most difficult Hungarian people and Hungarian families, were rejected. Well, we have tried here, for example, to submit a proposal on the period during which the unemployment benefit was paid, which I remember we were told in the Economic Committee that there was no funding for. Thus, under the circumstances, the burden-bearing capacity of the economy did not allow this to happen. This was referred to by pro-government representatives, while in the extraordinary legal order nearly 18 billion dollars were granted to the hotel chain of Lőrinc Mészáros when, by the way, Lőrinc Mészáros withdrew more than 12 billion dividends from its construction companies during the same period. So in that situation, you have abused the extraordinary legal order and maintained the further enrichment of your oligarchs, while saying that there are no resources to support the most difficult Hungarian people. In this regard, we can say then and now that this was an extremely serious anti-national act at the time. Another reference, perhaps after Mr Balla mentioned a series of measures on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. Indeed, in the extraordinary legal order, you considered it important to encrypt the contracts of the gigantic investment in the interests of China, and you voted not for you, but for your fellow Members who served here, on this gigantic investment, and sacrificed 175 thousand new Hungarian jobs in just two years so that they could not give any meaningful answer to the question, and on the other hand, how much of this project will be useful for Hungary, so let us say, compared to the 175 000 jobs that have been sacrificed. And they specifically shifted the investment to the development of the extremely poor domestic infrastructure, which is not the basis for self-determination, not the economic policy of patriotism, but, indeed, the supply of mass products of low quality and cheap quality in the Far East, in many cases. So it was definitely not a national government measure. That is why we have made a great deal of criticism during your emergency governance, and that is why we have repeatedly called attention to how you have abused this extraordinary mandate and how you have ignored the positive amendments that can be drawn up in many cases by the opposition. But let me refuse to make statements that would have accused any of my opposition fellow Members or the opposition in general, so that we would not have acted in the interests of the Hungarian people at the time. Then only in one sentence about this genre, the genre of the salad law, has a little discussion about this. Indeed, this may be a legitimate instrument for a bill to come before us with many other proposals concerning non-related measures, but I think that there are cases where this is not justified. And, for example, when making emergency decisions, I think that there is no justification for putting forward salad laws to this extent, especially with such a large extent as to include motions that have nothing to do with the rules on emergency termination. And I would add that it is a rare case that even the title of the legislative proposal does not indicate that it does not necessarily only deal with what is indicated in the title, so there is at least one more reference: This has not been done, so I can say that I believe that there is no place for the salad law as a genre in itself, which, of course, may be a legitimate genre, and that, on the other hand, other measures which have nothing to do with the removal of an emergency, and which do not stand by themselves professionally, can be criticized in themselves. Thank you very much, fellow Members, for doing this. I no longer wish to delay the Parliament's time by going through these and criticizing it in detail. I can say that, of course, in addition to the many positives in this bill, there are also measures in this bill which, due to its nature, are completely unacceptable to the LMP fraction, so we will not be able to support this legislation, this salad law, with our vote. Thank you.
u2022-05-10-90	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes, Mr Group Leader. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Croatian ethnic advocate József Szolga, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2022-05-10-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Dear House, Poštovani Dome! Dear Secretary of State, Poštovani Gospodine Državni Tajniče! T/27 of 2022 on emergency management issues Following the submission of the draft law, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary continued to initiate the discussion of the draft as a nationality item. At its meeting on 9 May 2022, our Commission decided that the provisions on certain house rules should be laid down in Article 10/2014. Parliamentary Decision No 32 § 2 of the Act aims to hold a detailed debate on the whole of the bill, as it affects the ethnic communities; and Article 36 of the House Rule of Decision. The Committee was invited to present its position as a committee related to the debate pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 5. Dear Parliament, Following the emergence of the coronal virus causing mass disease in Hungary, society and the economy have struggled with several waves since the emergency announced on 11 March 2020. Thanks to the highly effective vaccination programme, the current emergency period no longer required strict restrictions, as previously required. During the entire defence period, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary supported the bodies controlling the defence, following the government's regulatory measures regarding the interests and rights of nationalities. [[15.50]] It expressed its agreement on the adoption of Act I of 2021 on the control of the Crown Virus pandemic to protect people's lives, health, reduce economic damage and preserve jobs, and then XL of 2021 amending it. It also supported the entry into force of law. It also supported the extension of the emergency several times, most recently until 1 June 2022. T/27. Draft legislative text No 1 can be said to follow in its structure the proposals submitted in the previous period on this subject. The introductory provisions clarify that the emergencies declared over the last two years must be regarded as continuous with each other. The proposal before us also serves to establish appropriate transitional provisions until emergency measures are repealed. It regulates the requirement for legal certainty that legal certainty be granted to legal entities and regulatory elements established during an exceptional period. Chapter I sets out the period for which legislation is required. The draft sets out the regulated subjects in two chapters: it sets out the transitional rules relating to an emergency and the laws to be amended in the other. Dear Secretary of State, On behalf of our committee, I would like to draw attention to the national context of the draft law. I'm first in touch with the transitional regime. On the part of our committee during the regulation's governance, we have repeatedly indicated that in the public education institutions of the ethnic communities, there has been a problem with the compulsory use of coronal virus vaccination in public and municipal institutions by employees 599/2021. the application of a government decree without consideration. We remember when they made vaccination mandatory, which was not introduced in the institutions reserved by the national minority self-government, and in our view rightly, we asked for a compromise solution to the problem of the specialist teacher. The new regulation that we are about to introduce may provide an opportunity for correction and a way back for national educators. We consider it important that the aim of the legislation is to promote protection of the population of neighbouring countries bordering administrative units with Hungary against the coronal virus. Successful acquisition of vaccines allows the members of Hungarian communities across the border to obtain a vaccine through the domestic supply system. It is correct that the procedure does not distinguish between nationals of other countries, so that the mother countries of domestic ethnic communities can receive humanitarian assistance in border zones. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. The 1997 CLIV on health. Law 232/H. Complementing Article 4 of the Directive facilitates the prudent and prudent use of the previous ones in the epidemic situation, which is essential to ensure that educational and educational institutions in a specific situation which perform ethnic tasks manage to bring educators back to life. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. We also consider it important to supplement law in order to complete the ongoing supported activities of national minority organisations in a regulated order. We hope that, taking into account the extended deadlines provided by the law, the programmes and projects supported can be completed. If the implementation period is extended beyond the reference year, the aid will become a commitment-bearing budget and may continue to be used for the general objectives of nationality. Complementing the Public Finance Act will help national authorities to exempt overburdened local government offices from fines due to non-compliance or late reporting due to an emergency. We agree with XCIX of 2021 on emergency transitional arrangements. By introducing the provisions of Chapters 26 and 27 of Law No 26, which concern the need to restore the number of local government annual meeting numbers required to be retained by a cardinal law, i.e. from now on a number of meetings laid down in the original law must be held rather than one that is justified by the health situation. In view of the fact that the interim elections and local referendums were specifically regulated at the time of the emergency, regulation governance will allow national interim municipal elections to be held without any problems, as has been done in the parliamentary elections effectively and without any problems. The above law contains transitional rules relating to the electoral procedure 27. §2 of the Act cannot therefore be enforced. The provisions of entry into force are binding on the Prime Minister's decision to enter into force in view of the evolution of the current emergency. A successful defence programme will allow us to hope that the government will eliminate the emergency situation from 1 June 2022. On the basis of the opinion presented above, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary referred to in Article T/27 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It endorses and supports the regulatory principles of the legislative proposal No. Dear Parliament, Overall, it can be said that the existence of a special legal order during a health emergency had no meaningful influence on the basic institutions of democracy. Our ethnic communities have practiced political self-government and have operated cultural autonomy, despite restrictions. The actors in the minority public education have also been successful, despite the fact that some of the measures have adversely affected our capacity-building institutions. The unexpected situation called for new rules, which, indeed, did not always coincide with the enforcement of national minority rights. We hope that in the future we will be able to respond to the challenges even more successfully and quickly in the light of experience. Of course, by eliminating the emergency by law, the epidemic threat has not passed, the virus has remained between us, so we still need the responsible behaviour of the members of society. The government must continue to set rules for the health sector and to develop infrastructure. Our Commission thanks all actors in the health, social and public sectors for their work and for their commitment in the future. We consider the victims of the pandemic to be an immeasurable and irreplaceable loss, expressing our sympathy to the relatives. Our Commission continues to call on the members of the community to promote protection, one of the most important means of which is vaccination. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-05-10-92	Thank you very much for József Szolga's speech on Croatian ethnicity. Now we have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK.
u2022-05-10-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My adorable grandfather always said that a decent, self-respecting, demanding man doesn't lie. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Then why do you do it?]] The problem is not that Lőrinc Nacsa is lying, but the problem is that for 12 years the entire government and the entire governing parties have been doing the same thing. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi intervenes.]] Let's hear it many times, how proud they are to have two thirds again. But if you look a little deeper into yourself, you know very well that it's all based on a lie. One sentence of what you said in the campaign wasn't true, not a single sentence. Just like it wasn't true about what Lawrence Nacs said. He says we didn't support emergency decisions. Congressman, we didn't support theft, we didn't support the theft. He was talking about record economic growth, but somehow he's not saying that inflation is so high that people can only buy two grains of strawberries because there's no money left for more. You're talking about a vaccination campaign, even though we know very well that your vaccination campaign was about bringing in Chinese vaccines. 46,000 victims of your vaccination campaign and your operation, and unfortunately, the 46,000 victims were switched to hand-to-hand yachts and airplanes. I wonder when they're really going to apologize, not just to the families of the 46,000 victims, but to the hundreds of thousands of people who are now wandering around the maze of health care, not to receive basic health care or a study that might even help them survive. [[16.00]] Congressman, you can't build a castle for a lie. And you think you do. They're gonna fail, no matter how much you smile at this. Unfortunately, the people are still drinking the price, but sooner or later, they're going to charge you for it. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-10-94	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. For two minutes, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is the betterman.
u2022-05-10-95	Mr President, Dear House, It is clear that the pro-government representatives are very selective in their choice of opposition speeches or criticisms, but that should be their problem. It bothers me more that a package has been put in front of us, which must be quite simply unsuitable for a public figure, from the point of view that it lacks a solution to the situation of people who have lost their jobs because of extraordinary rules, any compensation that has been made in their direction. And there is one more thing that this package of proposals does not deal with, and this is what this government does with the expected wave of termination after the change of rules has expired. What will you do to people who, in the course of another wave of resignation, have to leave their beloved careers for decades? In the past, we criticized you a lot during the emergency that you were one of the most cowardly governments in Europe, so the smallest amount was spent per person on this whole thing. Obviously, I do not expect you to be Austrian, but the countries of the region have also made a stronger contribution in this respect. And there is one very important question that has not been discussed, and since my fellow Member Nacsa is coming after me right now, I would also like to give him the opportunity to respond: where are we with evictions, my fellow Member? From the 1st of the following month, if the emergency situation disappears, they can start again with a mass of evictions. Let us not forget, however, that there is a year and a half behind us when such events could only have been carried out with limited limits, traditional auctions, various on-site activities and evictions themselves, fortunately, only in a narrower area. But let me assure you, my fellow Member, have you agreed with the executive staff? Have you ever agreed on a quarterly quota for how many people in the next quarter can be thrown out of your home without being placed on the street? Yes or no? That's a yes-no question, please respond immediately. Thank you.
u2022-05-10-96	Thank you very much. For two minutes, I give the floor to Congresswoman Elijah Boglarka, Fidesz.
u2022-05-10-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, I think that it is not the Gyurcsány Party that could do this at any level with regard to the ruling party, because it was your president, his group leader, who lied in the morning, night and night, and he admitted it. I would also like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, for having addressed the Members personally, because, for example, Mr Zoltán Varga might have been less familiar with or recognized by those who are now following the parliamentary session without having to sleep. What I would like to mention is that, with regard to the ideas expressed by DK, I would like to say that, at the time of your governance, unemployment was record high, so they did not have to deal with how deficit professions could be replenished or how we could find the right workforce. This is precisely what the proposal, which is included in this package, is intended to serve. In short, I would like to say that, if my proposal has reached the goal of paying particular attention to paramedics in this House, I believe that I will continue to use such and similar points. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Kárpát: You still have half a minute left to answer the question about eviction.]]
u2022-05-10-98	Thank you, Congresswoman Elias Boglarka. The next two-minute comment is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP.
u2022-05-10-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dániel Z. Kárpát is always the loudest when DK representatives need to be protected from a Gyurcsány quote. He always yells at me very loudly at times like this. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Try to answer the question of eviction!]] They are ashamed enough of themselves because of Ferenc Gyurcsány's sentences. Szabolcs Szabó asked why, on the 74th day of the war, we remember changing the constitution and introducing the new emergency situation. This hat is not on it, because put your hand on your heart, Congressman, if, at the end of February, at the beginning of March in the election campaign, we had tabled a amendment to the basic law three to four weeks before the election, then you would have arranged the biggest tantrum here in the Parliament that we dared to amend the Fundamental Law with two thirds before the election, and that we dared to go into certain sections of the Fundamental Law three weeks before the elections. So that's exactly why we've been waiting. The voters could decide that they would like to give us a constitutional majority, and they decided that they would, honourable Member. That's why the fundamental law amendment is here. [[Szabolcs Szabó: That was not the question!]] He just asked, and I answered, like it's fair to argue. That's what he asked us. I find it particularly humorous that a Member proudly addressing himself as MSZP talks about inflation. Well, at the time of the Bokros package, people could face 25-30 percent inflation. Socialists always want the benefit of the people, for all the good, we know this policy. Then, after 2002, their election promises were announced, they said that there would be a wage increase, and then there was always inflation higher than wage increases and pension increases. This is the Left's proposal and this is the Left's offer every time we talk about inflation, honourable Member. It makes me smile that he's talking about high inflation as an MSZP representative. And he's talking about two figures, even though there's no double-digit inflation at the moment. Thanks to the reduction in overhead, the gas stop and the food stop, there's no double-digit inflation, and we're fighting to make sure it doesn't. You are in Germany, honourable Member, thank God you are not here yet, and we hope you will not. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-10-100	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó for two minutes, Momentum.
u2022-05-10-101	Thank you very much for the floor. It's just a little reaction. If a question comes up from someone, say, in my direction, it's not the answer that I'm talking about what I think the person who asked me would have done two months ago. So, logically, this story doesn't add up. The question is why we're here on the 74th day of the war. What I would have thought on the third day of the war, don't you solve it. Let me tell you, this would've come out if they'd brought him in. I'll keep that in parentheses, and I'll tell you this, honestly, if a proposal like this comes in the first week of the war, I'll stand up and say that we have a war next door, we don't know how it's gonna end, we can think about it. But not by bringing him in, but by sitting down, talking about it, talking about it. That's not what happened. The question is, and answer it when we have agreed to why we have come this far on the 74th day. Really, if it was so important, what took 74 days? What took you so long? Answer that.
u2022-05-10-102	Thank you. The next two-minute comment is László Keresztes Lóránt LMP leader.
u2022-05-10-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. To Congressman Nacsa, we have a question. We know that there is a huge shortage of staff in many areas, such as the head of the firefighter's union, has indicated that a very serious wave of resignations is expected, as the load is insane, the labour shortage is terrible, and in many cases certain vehicles are no longer able to be put into service. They went up to the wall with regard to the shortage of numbers, as they put it, and unfortunately, due to low wages, a wave of resignations is expected. How the government side wanted to prepare for this, how it wanted to prepare itself, as the union made it clear that this situation could only be resolved by raising wages. What do you have to say to the fire department? What do you have to say to firefighters who, if that's the case, risk their lives for all of us? I would like to clarify my position, if I was not sufficiently clear. You stated in your first comment that none of the opposition representatives remembered the day of the Hungarian rescue. I did it. I don't think it's a good idea for a congressman to start off with an untrue speech, and I don't think it's worthy. I suggest you raise this problem to your writer. And to make statements with real content should be seen as a general guide in the work of the Hungarian Parliament, which is how I usually act. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-10-104	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Zoltán Komáromi, Mr DK.
u2022-05-10-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great honor for me to be able to comment on behalf of my group during the second week of my work in the debate on the bill on regulatory issues relating to the cessation of an emergency. [[16.10]] In advance, I would like to point out that in the first two paragraphs of the explanatory statement to the bill, we have seen and read lousy lies. I quote: Hungary has successfully fought with one of Europe's most effective vaccination programmes against the corona virus pandemic, which allows the government to eliminate the emergency. The government's primary goal, as it has done so far, is to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people and to reduce economic damage and to preserve jobs. Over the past two years, pandemic control has demonstrated that the exceptional and temporary legal framework previously adopted has served these objectives well. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On the other hand, we believe that the Hungarian public health system, which has been neglected by the government for a long time, has been affected by the coronal virus epidemic in an unprepared state. Excessive centralisation, poor communication, complete and completely unjustified concealment of epidemiological data, over-vaccination-oriented protection, high mortality in our country, has been characterised by the control of the coronal virus epidemic that began two years ago. No one has been protected against this claim, and one of the highest mortality rates in Hungary in terms of population in the world, more than 46,000 people died from coronal virus infection, with which we are currently in third place in Europe. In two years more Hungarian people died as a result of a coronal virus infection than the population of Nagykanizsa, almost as many people as the population of Erzsébetváros died from 0 to 120 years. This number also proves that the Orbán government's epidemic management failed, but this was predictable, as in the previous government cycle, the government destroyed the well-functioning SAO, assigning the remaining staff to the district and other government offices. To do so, we must also count the loss resulting from the loss of our sick fellow citizens who died prematurely due to headless hospital and outpatient care, due to the lack of proper treatment of their chronic illness. In essence, there was no substantial disease management, no protection of the profession or municipal authorities, and until the end, the volume of testing and the solution of testing were insufficient, especially to make it pay, as was the lack of transparent and understandable information. During the coronal virus epidemic, the government has made countless mistakes, failed several times, lied constantly, insulted those who really helped the infected people, but that's what we've been waiting for. In the disease management process, you have mostly forced police and military solutions, and have not listened to the proposals of local authorities or professional organisations, including the Medical Chamber, although there has been a great deal of truth in these, and it would have helped to deal with the epidemic. They have repeatedly demonstrated that not only do they not understand health care, but we have seen a series of measures from you that have shown that they did not want to improve the fate of public-funded health institutions, or of professionals working in their strength, or of patients in these institutions. It is from this very proposal that we and journalists have learned that health not only does it not have an independent ministry in this government cycle, but they want to reorganize the sector from one conglomerate to another. Eight times in the presentation, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Public Safety, but twice the Minister for Health and Public Safety, the legislation and his justification are mentioned. Maybe that's what led us to the wrong conclusion. The rumors that have been circulating for days could be ended without EMMI and not BM overseeing the sector. We could use a good, professional and functional ministry. GPs have been given a decisive role in the epidemiological control, but the conditions for this have not been met for months, thanks mainly to charitable organisations and local authorities. It is no coincidence that 46 GP practices have ceased during these two years, so they are not empty, but have ceased, and virtually 177 practices have been eliminated by failing to replace the specialist, the doctor. A total of 667 practices now stand empty, and that means that 886 thousand people don't have a home doctor. So the problem isn't that they don't answer the phone in the office or there's some kind of technical problem, but that's just how many people have a home doctor who goes through the village or town next door twice a week and tries to put out the fire. But what we can see is that for two years there has been no chronic illness in primary care, and the consequences of this will be seen in the coming years. It can't be said that in the event of a pandemic, a national tragedy, where we're among the first, we're in the doghouse. Shame? Yeah! Stealing taxpayers' money in peacetime is a disgrace, but not for Fidesz, they're already making sport of it, that they'll continue even during a medical tragedy. Breathing machines. There was no limit to greed, and they wanted to profit from it. The lack of ventilators was a major problem at the beginning of the corona virus epidemic in Hungary, and the Prime Minister said that there were so many that he would endure even in the event of war. This lie, by the way, was not believed by the State Department itself, and 16,000 machines were purchased by the state for more than 300 billion forints. They bought so much from overpriced, useless respirators, that if we counted a specialist in intensive care, they would have gotten eight respirators. One specialist with one nurse can best treat two patients who have been respirated in Hungary in intensive departments where two specialists had four or five patients, and unfortunately this was also a cause of high mortality. For these machines, we calculated, because the report of the British National Audit Office revealed that they also bought Chinese machines, and they bought a machine for 1.3 million forints, if we split this hundred and seventy-something thousand forints. That's 28 million dollars for a ventilator. These ventilators weren't organized, the spare parts weren't organized. Here was a huge opportunity to create a single machine park in Hungary, which would have been much easier to operate, even in peacetime, and should not have waited for the epidemic. The most beautiful news yesterday is that the largest traffic in the acquisition of respirators. Just two years after the big business, it was over. In English: by the time they found out who were in this business, they had already eliminated it, so that no one could trace it. But as a health care worker, I have received these news with a very bitter taste in my mouth, which has been a concern for many years and has spent 43 years in it. Turning to the substantive provisions of the bill, we have come across a number of incomprehensible measures. On the one hand, the marketing of rapid tests for self-control purposes will be extended until the third month following the month of termination of the emergency. This doesn't make any sense, because when the epidemic is over, the infectious numbers are going down, and they can be sold outside the pharmacy for another three weeks, it doesn't matter because the tests we say they got last year probably in the fall, when the epidemic is expected to restart, will be useless, it doesn't matter whether it's available in pharmacies or outside. [[16.20]] Transitional rules on health insurance include incapacity for work and medical assessment and control of working ability. Very good, after all, we can say that during the epidemic, there was finally a form that was made by electronic means and was supposed to be delivered to the target. He had two problems. One. The employers didn't give us the e-mail address we could have sent these papers to. And if we sent it to the patient, the only way most employers accepted it was to return it to the general practitioner, seal it, sign it, because it doesn't apply without it. They brought half a good measure, but the implementation of it was not discussed with the profession, and it was therefore quite inoperable. With regard to compulsory vaccinations, I would just like to say that it is now possible to take a year's leave without pay, and here is the point, according to the employer's decision, people who refused to be vaccinated were actually a provision born of political cowardice, and it is now, because it brings this conflict down between the employer and the employee, even though everyone had enough problems without it. So I don't think that a law has to create a conflict between people, whether it's an employer or an employee, or a doctor or a patient. The bill regulates the documentation of vaccinations and the printing of supporting documents. Well, I'd just like to say that this has actually improved compared to the beginning, but all this administration has been pushed to the general practitioners, who couldn't do this, because this system was just so complicated, and the ESZ refused to communicate with GP software. So everyone had to send in all their data one by one, not to mention that people who had Hungarian citizens and Hungarian owners only work in Europe, for example a European representative, could not be fixed, it was much easier to identify and bring in a Turkish or Lebanese citizen by the number of his passport, while these Hungarian people could not get access to it. In fact, in the amendment of the Law on the Authority's supervision of food chains, a leaky law has not now been introduced. There are no answers to the details of how the offered food will be delivered, if so, how it will be collected and delivered, what guarantees are there that, for example, the cold chain will not be broken, how to account for the VAT on these products. Now there would have been an opportunity for this to be regulated. Well, it's in... [[There's a cell phone jamming the audio system. Nacsa Lőrinc: Phone!]] I don't have a phone. So I think that these questions remain open. I would just like to reflect on one detail on the comments and accusations of my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. The European Medicines Agency is entitled to take an official decision in each Member State under EU rules. So if he had made a decision, then the Member States would have accepted it, and it would have worked backwards, that if the Hungarian OGYÉI had accepted or accepted these vaccinations with the rules, as we say at the time of Professor Paál, then the EMA would have accepted the Hungarian documents. The problem was that OGYÉI submitted a document with the application transcript published by the manufacturer and translated into Hungarian, and in two weeks such a study of a medicine cannot be carried out. Anyone who knows the technology knows it would have taken a lot more time. This should have been done more carefully, thoughtfully. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-05-10-106	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Komáromi. Two-minute comment, Mr László Kordás, DK.
u2022-05-10-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, This is not the first time we've been in this situation, or the Parliament is in a position to negotiate such a salad law for the first time. I've had this before. These two salad laws have one section in common, and the government has always touched employees' rights. It has always touched either employment issues or employee rights itself, and it has never been in favour of workers. We have always found that at the end of a salad law, at the end of the day, workers had a bad time. I would also like to share a thought about the fact that my colleague Szabó Szabolcs, my colleague, has indicated that he has missed discussions on the part of the government and has asked about the way in which the social partners have been consulted. I would also like to say that on 5 May you convened the permanent consultative forum of entrepreneurs and the government, but there was only one word on this proposal, even though it was already submitted to Parliament, anyone could have had access to this proposal. Although questions were raised from the social partners to the government, there was no substantive debate on this proposal. I ask why they are afraid of entrepreneurs, why they are afraid of trade unions in the sense that they ask their opinion on a proposal that affects them. I think it is wrong for the government to be on the road to thinking up a bill of its own, and to try to shove it down workers' throats by means of a representative or wrapped in a salad law. The end of this law will be that, if this proposal is adopted, the vulnerability of workers will increase and their wages will decrease, it will not increase at the rate they deserve. It is therefore obvious that this proposal needs to be amended, and we will make proposals for amendments. Thank you. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-05-10-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. I cannot speak to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy for two minutes, because within the same circle a DK has already spoken, but I can give you 15 minutes if you press another button. [[It's happening.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-10-109	Thank you very much. I don't want to upset you that I'm going to talk for 15 minutes, but thank you very much, Mr. President, for this opportunity. All I would like to add to the debate is that we are talking about a war crisis and a health crisis, but we are also facing a livelihood crisis. I would like to draw the attention of the governing parties to the need to address this issue. It's really burning on our nails now. Anyone who's seen the latest government records, deficit figures, external deficit figures, is simply terrified of what we're about to face. The latest inflation figures: we are now arguing that it is already 10 percent. The person who went to the grocery store in January and bought the same piece of the same product, and in April the same one, paid 20 percent more. So we do not need to talk about how the price of the steam boiler will lower the inflation of bread, because this will not help the millions of Hungarians overall. This problem will now have to be addressed by the ruling parties. We've got this livelihood crisis on our hands. This type of livelihood crisis means not only that Hungarians need to save on food, or they simply won't have the money to buy it, but summer is just ahead of them, people won't be able to go on vacation with their families, because they won't have money. They have to decide whether to buy a flamer for a thousand forints on Lake Balaton, or to stay at home in the panel apartment and try to get through these months, and then I didn't even tell them about the amazing rise in property prices. Today, rent prices cost 30 percent more than a year ago, and the new housing prices are exactly the same. How many and how many young Hungarian families now have no chance of getting a new apartment? This problem must also be addressed. I would also like to put this to the attention of the honourable government parties. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, once again. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-05-10-110	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. Dear Parliament, No further comments were made and the general debate is therefore closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Azbei Tristan, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have a 30-minute time frame.
u2022-05-10-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank you for your constructive contributions. There have been mixed comments, mixed constructive criticisms, support and purely politically motivated voices and attacks, and rejoinders. [[16.30]] I congratulate all Members who have just given their sermons and wish them an effective work. With regard to the bill, I have a difficult time choosing meaningful comments and points of debate from politically motivated comments. I'm trying to do this, but there are some political points that I can't go without saying a word. I have had the honour of representing the government as a national on only a few occasions, but every time the bill concerned a number of pieces of legislation, there has been a ritual debate that is almost mandatory whether it is legitimate to amend legislation in the so-called salad law to form legislation. Each of these discussions ended with the fact that, after all, yes, it was legitimate. In addition, I must explain and remind Members of the challenges faced by the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary, Hungary, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian government. If you look back for the last two years, you will see that the coronal virus epidemic has, directly or indirectly, explained its effects in all areas of life, for which it was necessary to find a solution, their treatment had to be taken care of. Of course, the epidemic affected not only the health area, but also the functioning of the economic sectors, the work of many professions, the training area, the possibilities of administration, and I could tell you a long time. It was a very complex crisis, a crisis. Many of these areas have been regulated by government regulations. Now that the intensity of the epidemic is decreasing, we will find ourselves in a new state, a situation, and we will have to put in order by introducing government regulations governing the emergency in such a way that transitional provisions ensure legal certainty and that all those involved can prepare for it. So a number of areas have been affected by the coronal virus epidemic, and the government's response to it, so we need to address the legislation of a number of areas at the same time. This requires a complex approach. If it is called into question that it is legitimate to treat this in a law by simultaneously initiating coherent legislation in different areas, the reason may be that they simply do not see the complexity of this situation, or perhaps because there was insufficient patience to read the whole bill and understand every measure of it, the intention of the legislator, and how it is intended to ensure that the Hungarian people's lives return to their normal routine, the medre. When I have to respond to opposition comments, after I have used almost five minutes of my time frame, I still cannot turn to the points that are substantially affected, because there are so many political statements that need to be responded to. Even if they are not closely covered by the content of the bill, they concern the Hungarian health situation in general, the health response to the epidemic and the Hungarian economic policy. In this connection, it would be wrong to reopen the debate on how effectively the government has helped, supported and regulated Hungarian health care in order to find the right answer to the epidemic. In any case, false, unworthy statements and statements from the benches of opposition representatives have been made, which we have to discuss because they are capable of dissuading Hungarian voters and Hungarian public opinion through a public debate. It has been said that it is not true that Hungary has implemented one of the most effective vaccination programmes on the European continent. It's hard to argue with facts, numbers, statistics, and they're all on our side. At the same time, it is unworthy and insulting the spirit of the whole debate that this statement was made by the representative Zoltán Komáromi who discouraged people from taking vaccinations at the peak of the epidemic. In general, claims were made from left-wing parties regarding the state of health and the support of the health sector. Not only are they not true, but in many cases they are unworthy and unworthy in the light of the fact that thanks to the Hungarian government's health measures, now, in 2022, there is 1700 billion forints more to health than in 2010. During left-wing governments, HUF 650 billion was withdrawn from the health sector. If you now claim that the Hungarian health system was supposedly unprepared for the coronal virus epidemic, then it would have been terrible to think about what would have happened if it had happened during left-wing governance. The proportion of those choosing a medical career has increased from 1000 to 1600, and the emigration rate has also decreased in the health sector. We have reversed the trend that was launched during the governance of left-wing parties in the negative direction, who are now criticising the health care system that has heroically and effectively fought the effects of the coronal virus epidemic. Statistical magic continues, which is intended to prove unjustly how unsuccessful this joint effort has been. With this claim that this effort has failed, you are, by the way, insulting the medical staff who have heroically endured. It was said that Hungary showed a mournful picture of death. In this it is true that every life lost is an invaluable loss. There's no such thing as too little death, there's no such thing as mourning every single lost life and thinking with grace. At the same time, when Hungary, the response and effectiveness of Hungarian health care, is to be placed on the world stage, it must be said that if we compare the surplus mortality rates of EU Member States, they see that this was 37% in Bulgaria, 36 percent in Slovakia, 29 percent in Romania, 27 percent in Poland, 23 percent in the Czech Republic and 19 percent in Hungary. Don't get me wrong, it's exactly 19 percent more than it should have been. But your statements, your criticisms, are simply unworthy and unjust. There is also a serious maladministration that, while the provisions of the bill before us are being attacked or the intention behind them is being called into question, which is intended to stimulate the economy and increase employment, they also make criticisms that would have led the Hungarian economy to react to the coronal virus epidemic with a complete bankruptcy. Compared to this, the Hungarian economy preceded by a curve during the coronal virus epidemic. This is how we have achieved one of the most outstanding, highest GDP growth in recent years in a regional comparison, and this is how we can now achieve labour shortages in certain professions. This brings good news: employment is almost complete, employment is at its historic peak in Hungary. [[16.40]] So when they claim that the situation of Hungarian workers is getting worse and harder, the opposite is true, and the same is true of the rise in wage levels. Once again, there can never be enough or too high wage levels, but it is once again a repulsion that we are being criticised by left-wing parties, the government at which the minimum wage exceeds the average wage of your left-wing party governance. It is neither true nor true, and I now turn to certain points in the provisions of the bill, nor is it true that foreign labour is cheaper. Foreign workers have to pay the same amount of wages as Hungarians. There is therefore a labour shortage in Hungary, with a 3.7 percent employment rate, which means full employment. The Member has also forgotten the fact that it is only in the absence trades that third country workers can be imported in the case of permanently vacant posts on the basis of the cited rule. From this point of view, it is a stricter regulation than the previous one, and senior rental companies are qualified, with several business years and employing at least 500 employees. The dynamics of the economy cannot be considered treason. Not only is this betrayal unworthy, but it also lacks all logic. With regard to the substantive debate, Mr Varga gave the floor to the opposition group, one of his opening statements was that he was not interested in what we were saying about the bill. We're interested in what you said in the debate, and if you'll allow me to look into any further findings, I'll try to find out more if my time frame allows me to react. Mr László Lukács welcomed the bill from the point of view of making the remark that it should have been submitted and taken earlier. We are pleased with this particular support, and we hope that you will support this bill this time and differ from the custom that occurred during the coronal virus epidemic, that our initiatives and legislative proposals to combat the coronal virus epidemic have been slowed down, opposed or voted against. With regard to the question of the Member of the Council concerning the burden on the public administration of the sudden replacement of expired documents and documents, I give the information that the bill provides that the identity cards, driving licences and passports are uniformly valid until 30 June 2022. The extension of the documents can be carried out continuously in 310 government windows, but, for example, the application for permissions can also be made through the customer's door. We believe that these windows and these options will prevent this potential problem. Mr Szabolcs Szabó missed the social consultation, and perhaps Mr László Kordás joined him. In this connection, I would like to inform you that the bill was submitted to the following bodies for social consultation by the Government: National Office of the Court of Justice, National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Hungarian Chamber of Law, Curia, Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Where is society from here?]] I would like to ask Mr Szabolcs Szabó to reconsider, in light of this, his speech that the government has submitted these legislative proposals to public interest organisations. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Turns out they're not even...]] The National Office of the Court of Justice, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, formulated its amendments and forwarded them to the national government. These will appear in a possibly amending proposal. As regards the data processing issues raised by Mr Zoltán Vajda in relation to the janitor's programme, I give you the information that the SZIN running the programme Ltd. has a stable function thanks to the holder of ownership powers, most of the permanent tasks are carried out in cooperation with the EMMI in domestic and EU projects. SZIN Nonprofit Kft. is the manager of sensitive data. will be founded by the Hungarian State, this is a very important point. Ownership rights are also exercised by a public body, so it is misleading to suggest that sensitive data is handled by a civilian company in the field. It will be managed by a Hungarian state company, which is under state supervision. The interpretation that only public baths will be an exception in relation to the local government fee moratorium needs to be adjusted. That's not true. A general exception is already in force for longer-term contracts concluded before the entry into force of the provision, if the rate of the local government fee increase has been fixed in advance or if the rate of the increase is prescribed by law by 31 October 2020. Several points have been mentioned. This closing point, speaking in this debate, does not allow me to address every single one, but the proper way and location of this will be the detailed debate. I wish and ask for further constructive debate on this bill, as well as the consent of all Members to allow normality to return to Hungary as soon as possible in the lives of Hungarian people. I ask for the support of the bill, thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-10-112	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Azbei Tristan. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, LMP:
u2022-05-10-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, after my routine, I will also talk about the situation of my own country, Pécs and Pécs, and today I will do this on an important day, a symbolic day, because today is the day of birds and trees, one of the most important days of nature conservation. So, on this day, there is reason to say a few words about the environmental problems of Pécs and its region, Baranya County, the possibilities for solving and the challenges associated with this. Yesterday I spoke briefly in the Parliament about a joyful development, since Pécs, Miskolc and Budapest became the three Hungarian cities that were given the opportunity to apply for direct sources in Brussels in an EU programme in order to prepare investments to achieve climate neutrality in these three cities. This is certainly a joyful and great opportunity, but we must say that if the basic functioning of these municipalities is not guaranteed, then we will not be able to achieve results in this area, even though the challenges are clearly present. I would therefore like to draw attention to the very serious challenges facing the natural environment of Pécs, and we must act on this. [[16.50]] To that end, I have already taken steps as Parliamentary Congressman of Pécs. It is very important to mention that over the past few years there have been a number of restrictions on local governments, so it is difficult to ensure basic public services, so that municipalities also face the most basic tasks. Obviously, this situation needs to be dealt with. I very much hope that the city's pro-government parliamentary representative will be a partner in this. I am sure that we agree on this issue with Tamás Mellar, elected in opposition colors. It is important for the central government to provide an opportunity to use urban policy instruments that give not only Pécs but also all Hungarian cities the opportunity to take meaningful action to reduce the effects of climate change. I have often talked about the challenges of ensuring the most important public service in Parliament. We know the drinking water supply system is on the verge of collapse. This is a major problem in the region of Pécs, with a 15-year horizon that, in addition to the existing, planned resources, 20 billion HUF is missing in order to ensure the basic, most basic public service. In the last parliamentary term, I have tabled several motions to receive support from the central budget for the city of Pécs. This has not been achieved, this has not been supported by the pro-government representatives, but I think it is clear to everyone that this is a non-deferential task, and that these resources are needed. That is why I am preparing to cooperate with everyone who can help and act on this matter. Similarly, the issue of a thousand-stranded community transport in the city of Pécs is a major challenge for sustainability objectives. We know a few years ago that the city was in a difficult situation after a corruption-suspecting acquisition, and it meant billions of dollars in debt. The next round of negotiations was just today, by the way, following my report many years ago, but obviously the solutions are the most urgent. So there is a need for a new bus fleet in the city of Pécs, which also requires substantial government support and central resources. That is why I will fight to give this to our city, because if we do not have well-functioning, sustainable public transport, bus transport, we will not be able to achieve the sustainability goals, then we will not be able to deal with the problems of congestion and air pollution. It is also very important that the government's decision to withdraw from support for public transport in rural cities has been taken in recent years in connection with the corona virus epidemic, and this provision should also be withdrawn, since there is no Hungarian rural city that can finance public transport in the long term. Thus, public engagement cannot be avoided. I very much hope that this will also be seen by the government side, and will support the re-re-reach of rural cities the necessary resources to maintain public transport. A huge debt in Pécs is the prolonged recultivation of one of Hungary's largest industrial landscapes. We know that the first deadline of the Karolina study should have been completed in 2009. The case has been stalling ever since, and you can see that the process has slowed down. Therefore, the Pécs thermal power plant works, but the State also does not participate in this work-related state. Here, too, it is necessary to provide central resources and speed up work to reduce environmental risks. And we finally need to find a solution to two burning problems, the question of re-opening the uranium mine and the question of the nuclear cemetery. All these must be rejected. To this end, I have initiated cooperation with all the politicians of Pécs, and it is a pleasure that one of the members of the government has already indicated that they have been elected. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That you are willing to consult publicly on these matters. I am very confident that there will be meaningful results in the interests of Pécs and its region. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-05-10-114	Thank you very much. Péter Balassa, Mr Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech: instead of promises and visual investments, a renewed road network: help the government to develop Szombathely with a specific programme! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-10-115	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor, thank you for the opportunity. My first speech will be about Szombathely and its situation. Szombathely is Hungary's tenth largest city with historical traditions, both commercial, economic and in terms of tourism, a historical city. We are talking about a historic city situated at the same distance to European capitals, Vienna, Bratislava and Zagreb. It is no coincidence that in Szombathely, in the industrial park, Schaeffler giant company planned to invest nearly HUF 25 billion on the northern industrial bypass road, thanks to an investment in Szombathely's transport and Szombathely's economy, Szombathely's development will play a huge role. Nevertheless, I say that in the last 12 years, Szombathely has not received the government's support that would have been appropriate, Szombathely was the government's stepchild. Why do I say that? It is not enough that the M86 motorway was brought to Szombathely in 2016 and still has to be celebrated. It must be said that the roads in the administrative area of Szombathely are unfortunately impenetrable. We are dealing with problems that I have already proposed and addressed as a city representative. What does that mean? In 2015, I initiated the transport concept of Szombathely as a city representative, which was completed this year, in April of this year. In this we asked the opinion of the residents of Szombathely county-righted town, in which they clearly and clearly stated that Szombathely's roads are in an unqualified state. We are struggling with problems that have not been built in recent years, but I can tell you, in the last decade, nothing has happened in relation to underground garages, the condition of bridges is catastrophic, and there are huge problems with bypassing roads. Earlier, our MP announced several times and promised several times that the bypasses would be completed in 2022, but this looks about like the Holy Grail, everyone is looking for it, but no one can find it. As a representative, I have always said the problems with transport at every general meeting in Szombathely and we have made proposals constantly. As an opposition representative, I also told the then mayor, Tivadar Puskás, whose circle has always supported visual investment, even though we have indicated that the public service must always be made public. Szombathely's county-right city means nearly 80,000 people. This 80,000 people face the problem of not being able to park every day, because of the many cars that have grown incredibly, catastrophic chaos in transport in recent years. That means breakfast, noon, and afternoon traffic. And why am I saying that Szombathely is a stepchild in this regard? It seems that others have better lobbying power, as Győr, Zalaegerszeg and Székesfehérvár managed to manage it from much larger sources of government, which could be used for road maintenance and transport-related funds. But let's stop and talk about the bypasses, as Professor Grétsy said. One point of Szombathely's transport and one point of break-out if substantial changes and substantial investment are to be made in relation to the bypasses. This may not have been told to many, but in Szombathely, three bypasses are planned for the bypasses, which means the development of road No. 87, No. 89, Szombathely, northeast bypass, which is now designed and announced. When this is done, it'll be about August. This is about HUF 50 billion in government assistance, according to current surveys. There are two other bypass roads that need to be discussed, the construction of the southern part of the city and the western part of the city. We do not know how planning and costs will take place in the coming times at all. As a Member, I would like to make the proposal myself, and I would like to make a proposal that can be made from the price of a modern stadium and that can be guaranteed to Szombathely. The situation, I think, requires an immediate solution, so I propose that the government help the development of Szombathely by supporting it with a complex road renovation program, with at least HUF 25 billion. Saturday is 24 hours. I ask for the government's help, support, so that the city of Szombathely is not a losing city, but a winning city, and help make it a winner. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2022-05-10-116	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Balassa. Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of the constituency 01 of Veszprém County. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-10-117	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. In my previous parliamentary term, I promised that if I were re-elected, I would, of course, continue to report to this House on the development of Veszprém and its region. [[17.00]] And on April 3rd, the country voted, voting that we should continue to go forward, not back, and Veszprém County's 1st constituency voted to keep going forward and not back. We have said that we always think about teamwork, and we always believe in teamwork, and perhaps this is also reflected in the election result. When we can develop the region together with the mayors, we can say that we are truly successful. And if we look at what our help was for these four years, then we can say for sure that one of the most important priority programmes, the programme of the modern cities, supported the city of Veszprém County, because between 2018 and 22 there were a lot of developments in the county-righted city. In Veszprém the new sports swimming pool was completed, the Antal Csermák School of Music could be renewed, the reconstruction of the Petőfi Theatre started, but we could also talk about infrastructure investments, the construction of the route between 8 and 82 has begun, and now our southern bypass is under construction, and will be handed over by the end of 2022. This is all a development that supports not only Veszprém but also Veszprém and its region. And when we look at the 24 settlements from my constituency, which were also interested in the Hungarian village programme, we see that after the elections the development did not stop either, as I can report to the House that after the elections in April, the Hungarian village programme won several settlements in my constituency: Czechbánya and Herend; the renovation and construction of the municipal sidewalk Márkó, Olaszfalu and Öskü; the infrastructure development of municipal cemeteries Bánd, Czechbánya, Csetény, Dudar, Hajmáskért, Hárskút, Herend, Sóly and Városlőd; the development of playgrounds in kindergartens, Bánd, Hárskút, Kislőd; the development of municipal property Csetény, Hajmáskért, Lókút, Sóly, Tés, Sóly, Úkúkút; and the construction of municipal tools Nemesvámúmos, Sóly and Köröd. I believe that these are all important investments that the municipalities needed very much, and that the municipalities could not carry out these improvements on their own initiative. This is why the Hungarian village program is very, very popular in my constituency, we can offer more than 200 winning applications worth more than two billion forints, which really serves the inhabitants. But Veszprém and its region are also facing a major challenge, since in 2023 Veszprém and its region represent the cultural capital of Europe. Nevertheless, we have a very big responsibility, but we also have a very great opportunity, and this programme has also brought about a number of improvements that the Veszprémians have long been waiting for, because if I am only talking about the renewal of the former Heim Pál Children's Hospital, then I think that we have been waiting for this very, very much. I therefore believe that the outcome of the 3 April election shows that we have done our job successfully, and that Veszprém and the regionals can still count on us. Thank you for listening.
u2022-05-10-118	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ovadi. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of Parliament will take place as recommended by the House Committee. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Have a nice day.
