u2022-02-22-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The second day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mr Dezső Believer will be in charge of the meeting. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Five years ago, in December 2017, the National Assembly decided to declare 22 February to be the day of the Hungarian Parasports, remembering that on this day in 1970 the Halassy Olivér Sport Club was founded within the Motion Improvement Institute. Like all athletes, parasportists like to test themselves in the sport they pursue, where they can participate in the purely performance-related noble sport-like competition, where they can experience the success of a fair fight or even failure. They are extraordinary people, who, starting with their faith and spiritual and physical strength, are able to surpass their sound associates. In the last year's Olympics in Tokyo, Hungarian parasportists returned home with the second best result of all time: they won 16 medals in total; 7 gold coins, 5 silver and 4 bronze. Few people would think so, but in the soon-to-be Beijing Winter Paralympic, we can also cheer for a Hungarian athlete who, as an alpine skier, shows that even in such a sport that is difficult to practice in Hungary, it is not impossible to get to the greatest competition in the world. Parasportists are the heroes of struggle and will, who play a particularly important role in enabling more than 80,000 students living in Hungary with disabilities to experience it, any of them capable of sport and its resulting joy, success and pride. One of the aims of the 30/2017 parliamentary decision is to encourage students to exercise regularly. Dear Parliament, Parasportists help to make the community of people with disabilities more visible and understandable in the eyes of society. For this reason, on this holiday, we show our respect and solidarity not only to athletes but also to all our countrymen with disabilities. Thank you for listening. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Mellar, representative of the Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech on current matters. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-22-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, After 42 years of teaching at the university and for three years as a professor emeritus, I think I have a legal basis for standing up for the teachers on strike and speaking up for them. Yes, the strike is a fundamental right. In a rule of law, in a democracy, everyone has the right to strike, but it seems that the Orbán government does not want to accept and abide by this in any way, and to eliminate these democratic institutions step by step. I will stand by the strike teachers, and I will support them on 16 March when they announced a national strike. But why are the teachers on strike? Not just because they want a higher salary, although the wages they receive are outrageous, and there are thousands of unfilled jobs. Not out of political motivation, as you would try to set it up, but simply because you want to do your job. The work they put their lives on is to teach young people. To teach, it's a wonderful, great thing, believe me, I can tell you from 45 years of experience. But if you don't have the physical conditions, you don't have the tools, you don't have the school leave and you don't have the resources, you can't do that, then they can't give the country educated heads of people. In recent years, after 2010 the Fidesz governments systematically dismantled education, saying that there is no money. There would have been money for it, but the purpose of the Orbán government was to separate the education system because the system that Orbán has built is a semi-feudal colonial system, which does not require engineered and educated heads of man, but requires servants and serfs who obediently do the monotonous slave work as a worker trained in the assembly plants of multinational companies or slaving in the hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros. Teachers strike because they want to give children knowledge, a versatile knowledge that can hold their place anywhere, in any area of life. But those with knowledge can't be easily yoked, can't be deceived, manipulated. So these overqualified people, who these dedicated educators are trying to raise, are dangerous to Fidesz, the authoritarian, autocratic system of Fidesz. That's why you don't give money for education, and that's why you don't allow teachers to strike. It's fitting in with another story from yesterday. During yesterday, 30 NAV and dozens of police officers invaded the headquarters of the Protection Charity Association and removed files, saying that the association and its leader, Gábor Iványi, committed budgetary fraud. The only thing that happened was that Gábor Iványi's crime was that the government did not pay the 12 billion forints they were entitled to, which the Constitutional Court has condemned, and, of course, that it dared to criticize His Majesty. In feudalism, the ruler's personality is sacred and inviolable. So there's no way to judge him. Do you have any lower, dear fellow Members? I don't think so. I stand for not only teachers but also Gábor Iványi, and I hope that more and more people will stand up, and more and more people will realize that this system cannot be maintained, not forward, but back to feudalism two hundred years ago. We hope that we can replace you on April 3rd, and you will end up in the wasteland of history at your rightful place. Thank you very much.
u2022-02-22-2	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Mellar. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[9.10]]
u2022-02-22-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I believe that there is a more circumstantial view of the past 12 years than what Congressman has done. The opposition is apparently trying here, the left is trying to generate some kind of cases from its difficult position, and this is what it comes up with here in Parliament. But let us first look at the issue of education. Which government introduced the tuition fee in Hungary so that poor children could not learn further? The left. Which government canceled tuition twice so the poor kids could go to college? [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] The right side. The Horn government introduced it, and the first Fidesz government wiped it out. It was also introduced by the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government and abolished by the Fidesz-KDNP referendum with the help of the people. Because the left always, when he was on the steering wheel, was always on the steering wheel, either in the '90s or in the '2000s, always trying to keep children from the toughest ranks away from knowledge. He always introduced tuition fees, for those who wanted to be teachers, for those who wanted to be doctors, for those who wanted to be engineers, he made obstacles for everyone to gain knowledge. What did the left government do to children who lived in a small settlement in 381 settlements? He locked up their schools on the spot. That's what the left did to people who live in small towns. They're talking about him now: stupid, ignorant people, what they're talking about at school. They've locked up all of them. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] What did they do to those teachers who worked there with 15,000 teachers? He's been discharged. What did they do to the rest of the teacher who stayed there? You were talking about the need to value the work of teachers. I totally agree with that. Why, then, have teachers' wages been reduced? Why did they take a month's wages from teachers? Are you here for the teachers today? You think there's a ounce of credibility in what you're saying? After the change of regime, which was the only government that reduced the teacher's wage? Because it is possible for governments around the world to compete on who has increased the average and who has increased the wages of teachers above average. But where can you find another government that took you away from teachers, which reduced their wages, which dismissed 15,000 teachers? It was you, the left, and you want to come back. There is no greater danger for teachers than the return of the school-stopper, teacher-borrowing and mass-leaving and introducing a tuition fee. If anything threatens the further education of Hungarian students, it is precisely this. Honourable Congressman, We agree with the teachers, because we also think they need to make more money. We also believe that a noticeable, large increase in wages should be carried out in the following year. We have already done this once, in 2013 we launched a 50 percent wage increase programme. The first group of public employees, for which we launched a salary increase programme, was precisely the teachers, because we very much appreciate their work as politicians and private people. You know and you can see that the doctors are having a two-and-a-half-time wage increase, the nurses had a 72-percent wage increase. [[A statement from the opposition line: That's a lie!]] And social workers have a 20% wage increase. Our debate is not about whether or not we need a teacher's salary increase. Of course I do. It says that we are now in the health and social sphere in the high wage increase, and then there will be schools, teachers, who, as I said, already received a large-scale wage increase in 2013. Honourable Congressman, You talked about nothing else when you were dealing with a crisis, the left in 2008-2009, but what kind of austerity is needed. How did you deal with the crisis in the case of educators? They took a month's rent. How did we handle the crisis? During the two years of the crisis, we raised the wages of teachers by 10 plus 10 percent, and the principals by even more, with a 50 percent increase, with a 30 percent increase in wages. So in a critical time, you took me away from teachers, and despite the crisis, we have made 10 plus 10 percent wage increases, and we believe that this needs to be continued even more. With regard to the strike, honourable Member, I think there can be no debate between us, because the Hungarian court has decided, in its final judgment, that the strike in which the teachers' unions have taken the teachers into it, as much as they have claimed that it is legal, the court has also stated that that strike was illegal, it was final. I don't think there can be a debate between us in this, and I think you'll accept the court's verdict if the court gives a final verdict. We can say, honourable Member, that for teachers it is the way to raise wages, the way to move forward is to keep Fidesz-KDNP in government. On the other hand, if the left returns, you and Ferenc Gyurcsány will return to power, but in the case that is expected again, what has already happened with the introduction of the tuition fee, because they have always introduced tuition fees and restrictions, because there have always been restrictions, school closures and teacher wage cuts. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I believe that none of us wants this for the Hungarian teachers, so it is important that we go forward and not backwards, honourable Member.
u2022-02-22-4	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Mr Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-02-22-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, There are thousands of posters in the country to protect our children. Protect Our Children But what are we protecting them from? Protect them from domestic violence, from having to suffer the abuse of spouses or partners, where appropriate, and watch it! Protect them from having to suffer abuse within a family. Where they're supposed to be safe, that doesn't happen. I believe that what has happened in the last four years has been very little in this regard, since the penalty has been tightened, but this has not caused a reduction in the number of cases, and unfortunately, in the context of the pandemic, I think that they have been strengthened. I've asked you on the government side many times to broadcast at least sensitive social advertisements through television, but you didn't do that either. Protect them from having to suffer various harassments at school, whether physical or mental. It's not enough that there are school guards, and in many cases this proves very, very little. It is necessary to strengthen family support services and to re-enhancing social work, as fewer and fewer people are willing to do such work, but with appropriate wage increases or even with a kind of, say, attraction, so that education itself is used, and young people do go to such colleges and take this kind of work, this would be very good, for example, by introducing a scholarship. Protect Your Children and Families From Poverty I know you don't like it when we say that there is deep poverty in Hungary. But have you been to a Roma colony recently, for example, Kerepes or Domony, or Bagon, or anywhere else in the country, or the Ormany? But we could also mention Borsod County. Where are the Roma catching-up programs that would help these people get out of this extreme poverty, so that children do not have to lack it, even starve, and not have the greatest wish of a child for Christmas to eat fried meat, but it should be a natural thing that families can afford food and no quality or other hunger. But I could also mention the wages of public workers, which, after four years of begging, was finally raised. Unfortunately, this means only a HUF 10 000 increase in net terms for these people, which is very small, since you can't make a living from 65,000 forints in a month, that is quite certain. But we could also talk about the family bonus increase, which has not been implemented, although you always say that in the form of taxes, in the form of tax relief, you have provided the families with this, but there has not been a family bonus increase in the last 12 years. And we could also talk about the need to increase the civil servant's salary fund, as it has not been raised for more than a decade, but the people who work in the public sector are also raising children. We have put forward many times that there should be an increase in the current retirement pension minimum, which is also the basis for calculating various aids. Although I continue to believe that it is not aid that must be given, but adequate wages for these people so that they do not need aid. [[9.20]] Protect children, as I said, from hunger, because the VAT on basic foods could also be reduced. We have also often said that freezing prices for some foods is a very small and very small measure. In particular, unemployment benefits could be increased temporarily from at least three months to six months or even nine months during the period of the pandemic. It would be very important for home care providers to be acknowledged, not only by home caregivers but also by their mates, siblings, or parents. There is a lot of work to be done, so I trust that the new government will take these into account and act as such. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2022-02-22-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert will respond.
u2022-02-22-7	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We fully agree that our children must be protected, and therefore child protection is at the heart of government policy. You've talked about a number of things, and you've interpreted child protection in a very broad way. I would like to say that the most important and directly before us is the referendum on 3 April. The stakes of the referendum on 3 April are that we can protect our children against sexual propaganda, because only parents have the right to decide what and how they want to tell their children about their sexual education. You mentioned that steps have been taken, but you do not consider them sufficient and do not consider this process to be completed. I can also agree with that, so obviously we need to take further steps. Nevertheless, I would like to say what we have done in the area of child protection. We have been trying to tighten up the most important instruments of child protection, criminal law instruments, and these criminal instruments that protect children have been incorporated into our legal system ever since. For example, in 2017, the National Assembly adopted an amendment necessary to improve the protection of children, in which, in the case of offences committed to harm children, persons who committed such a criminal offence should be permanently prohibited from exercising an occupation or from carrying out an activity in which they are raising or supervising children. In 2018, we tightened employment conditions to protect children. In 2017, we tightened the rule of sexual violence in the Criminal Code, thus protecting the psychological and physical development of children under 12 years of age. In the case of the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings, Parliament passed a law in 2020 to reduce child prostitution. During the epidemiology period, we adopted laws and government regulations on procedures for contacts, in which, even in the midst of epidemiological measures, we tightened the rules on detention and used restraining to protect children. In order to improve the protection of victims of violent crime against a person who has been harmed by relatives, Parliament adopted a law in 2020. In the area of child protection, children's special attention has been introduced by the law in both criminal proceedings and civil proceedings, and the treatment of children is reflected in these two procedural laws. Not to mention the fact that the child protection rules are now going through the whole administration process, so child protection is a priority in public administration. The protection of children is therefore guaranteed by the State. You are also absolutely right, and I would like to confirm that we have also made progress in this area by involving civil society organisations in this work. For example, we work with many NGOs in the field of victim support. The beneficiaries of victim support are often children or families with children, mothers with children, who are taken into account by the victim support system, and here the victim assistance is directed at them. In helping the victims, we provided children with opportunities that we tried to avoid first the victimization of children's parents, mothers with children, and then, if they become victims, they would receive immediate help. I have experienced this myself, and there are opportunities in the victim support centers for mothers with children that will certainly help their safety and the spiritual development of children. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and So don't forget the referendum on 3 April, which is another important step forward between child protection rules and child protection opportunities, and, in addition, against European bureaucrats, Brussels bureaucrats, Hungarian citizens and Hungarian voters can decide how they want to protect their children. I would also ask you to take part in the referendum. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-22-8	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-22-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The decision of the European Court of Justice is clear: they are sick of the thefts of the Orbán government and the Community has decided to protect the tax paid by their own citizens. I'm going to say this slowly so that you can understand: you don't want the Orbán family and its extensive circle of friends and friends to know that this is what they call Fidesz bringing home, taking home the money in a professional way. Otherwise, the Prime Minister is simply lying to us as a freedom fight, who has now expelled his own party from the Conservative Christian Democrat's largest European faction, the European People's Party, and, unfortunately, it can be seen that he wants Hungary out of the European Union as well. Otherwise, the decision of the European Court of Justice is unprecedented in the history of the Community, and it has never been so necessary to warn anyone that it is not about money, but about the representation of common values, such as democracy, the public, freedom of the press, the rule of law, civil society, so that everything that you, the Fidesz, have ruined, you have been ignored, betrayed and trampled in the mud. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Eyeshot!]] There is another bad example, the current Polish government, and you have also managed to crush the cooperation in Visegrád. The Slovaks and the Czechs have now abandoned the two others, the Hungarians and the Poles, they don't want to spit on the floor, but they know what's right and what's wrong. Orbán has put himself on the embarrassing bench of Europe, and, unfortunately, our beloved country, Hungary, too, and we are in great trouble because of you, dear members of the government. 133 of you were only so brave that you are now ruining everything that the change of regime meant or could mean to us, and all that Hungarian youth can no longer exist without. We are now in particular threatened by the fact that Hungary and its municipalities and tens of thousands of businesses simply cannot obtain EU funds, without them, you know, there will be no development, there will be no investment, there will be no job, there will be no job. And what's important to you, because that's what you're used to getting home from, there won't be any tax revenue. You can see, honourable government representatives, that the whole country is now in the power games of Viktor Orbán, and that his father, his brother-in-law, his daughters-in-law, his gas mechanic, his closer and far-reaching pereputty, and God knows who else in Fidesz's house brings back European Union funds by wagon number. Many people now ask what will happen if Orbán does stay, and he wants to escape from his needy situation by taking steps to restore the rule of law, perhaps telling his friends to steal a little less now, perhaps sacrificing some more unfortunate Völner to make it seem that justice is going well here in Hungary. The question is, it's possible that the hyena will eventually become a vegetarian. I'll tell you, it doesn't exist. It's not possible, because Orbán and Fidesz, you're just like that, they're wired like this: no rule of law, just purely stealing. If Hungary were a rule of law, if there were no Fidesz party soldier sitting in all the posts of the courts, the prosecutors' office, the Court of Auditors, the media authority and the state media, if the electoral system were fair and democratic, you would not have been sitting here long ago, the Orbán government would have failed long ago. [[9.30]] But we know very well that's not what happened, but that's why Orbán and his system got slapped. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] No, it's not a pleasure for anyone, for us, to lose EU money, and believe me, we don't have any gloat. We don't have gloat. We just have anger. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: No!]] This is a tragedy, but you will be responsible for this tragedy, honourable members of the government. But it is fortunate that on 3 April, the six-party coalition will offer a chance to change, and everything can turn out well: Hungary will finally be a rule of law and a republic; thieves will go to prison; and our country will once again become a morally and financially respected member of the European Union. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Believe me, we will not allow Viktor Orbán to get the country out of the European Union, because in fact, this is the stake of the choice to stay in the Union and come with development money, or stay in Orbán, and then we will not. If Orbán fails, then the money will come; if Orbán stays, then EU membership is in trouble, and the money will not come. That's how simple the choice is. You have to go vote, and the current inhuman and treasonous [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You have to pull x against the system, and then you'll be fine. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties. Intruder from the benches of the governing parties:]]
u2022-02-22-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2022-02-22-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to rebut, point by point, the false allegations you made. Firstly, I would like to start by saying that EU funds are not, were not and will not be in danger. There is only one exception if the left comes to power because we have seen how you dealt with EU funds before 2010. They operated a terrible system of resource use; we were in the back, we were able to draw only a fraction of the funds due to our country, we suffered hundreds of billions of forints of losses. There's been a lot of delays, a lot of improvements. The Hungarian budget at the time could not secure the necessary part of itself because of the government's irresponsible economic policy, and these funds were spent on pointless projects. [[Zoltán Varga keeps interrupting.]] I would add that the biggest corruption case in the history of the Hungarian system change, the metro 4 investment, is also linked to you and to the irregular use of EU funds. So I would like to encourage the Hungarian people to continue to use EU funds if they agree that EU funds should serve to improve the well-being of Hungarian people, that they should support necessary and important infrastructure investments, and that the development and competitiveness of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported from these sources, then vote for the governing parties, because they are the ones who can guarantee that the call for funds will be appropriate. As it is going on, however, to deny one more false claim you have mentioned, the use of funds is still taking place in the running budget cycle, payments are coming from Brussels, Hungary is continuously issuing proposals. There is indeed a political debate on the EU recovery fund and I will come back to this later, but as you know, the use of resources is ongoing, as the government of Hungary has already written out the applications, and has already obtained the necessary pre-financing funds from the market. So this political-ideological debate between Brussels and Hungary, the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses cannot suffer in any way. However, before we go into this, he mentioned two things that I would like to respond to, on the one hand, to the cooperation in Visegrád. I can see on the left that you are working very actively, you are putting a lot of resources into trying to destroy Visegrád cooperation; you have done the same before 2010. I can see that they have also become political experts in Visegrád cooperation. I always have fun when he first qualifies the Hungarian and Polish governing parties as members of the extreme right-wing party family, and then he says that the Czechs, the new Czech Prime Minister, have moved away from him, while the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is in the same party family that you considered a minute ago to be a far-right party. Of course, I know that life is more complicated because there is a coalition government in the Czech Republic, but even if you are at least a minimum aware of the basis of the cooperation in Visegrád: geopolitical identity and the need to protect our interests together and fight for them in Brussels. It would be nice for you to think the same way. Secondly, he mentioned the exit from the European Union in the field of political fantasy. There is only one party in the Hungarian political scene that campaigned to leave the Union, Jobbik, and this is your political ally. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And they're going to run for election in great happiness, in a collusion, and I can only congratulate you on that. And the other is to get back to the question of what's new about the recovery fund. There it is quite clear that the conflict is of a political nature. Brussels is attacking the Child Protection Act, attacking our family protection measures and attacking our fight against illegal migration; the progressive political elite on the left in Brussels disagrees with it. This double standard is outrageous and unacceptable. We are on the side of the Hungarian people and we are fighting [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We will protect our children and our families. It would be good for the left to do the same and not for Brussels. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-02-22-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-22-13	Thank you very much. Good morning, fellow Members. A few days ago, the latest inflation data series of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office appeared, and it turned out that food and fuels were the most expensive. What led you here? Well, first of all, there was no government measure to curb inflation. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Was, you just didn't support...]] What you could see in the first month of the year was that inflation perception and inflation expectations, as well as weak forints, were legally increasing prices. Those in real trouble who, with low incomes, say, simply cannot manage the cost of everyday living. Food and ingredients that we cook from every day have increased greatly. Food oil is slowly costing 1000 HUF, white bread is slowly costing 500 HUF [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Official price...]] , potatoes, flour, bakery, bread, fats, vegetables, fruits... Well, yeah, who goes into his kitchen every single day and tries to cook, sees his money at the store getting less and less. The Orbán government has begun to distribute insanely. Do you think that one-off benefits can cover this immeasurable price increase? [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Rent...]] I don't think so. It's because these people have to live every single day. Who's the worst? Let's say it's nearly 500,000 people who are retired, but they don't even get 100,000 forints. I do not want to anecdote, but I tell you that a few weeks ago in the region of South Heves, where I myself live, I went to an organization that deals with social affairs, a support service, and I took a donation to him in two neighboring villages, Pélyen and Tarnaszentmiklós; I stress that this is a city called Heves. I told you, I've been talking to people who live from 70,000 to 80,000 forints. I am surprised that they exist at all, at such prices, of course, and in their settlement they receive almost no help at all. The head of the institution or association will turn to one of his colleagues and tell me: Member, we do not have one person who has 70,000 forints, and we do not even have one who has 50 thousand forints of income. You know what I mean? It's a city. They don't have a single one with 50,000 forints of income. [[9.40]] 13 years ago, a naughty penny didn't raise the child, no increase in the maternity allowance, no increase in the family allowance. Can you imagine how much this benefit cost 13 years ago, the benefits I just listed? I'll tell you: it was worth nearly 50 percent more than HUF 10 000 or HUF 12 200, which is a family allowance for a child. What is the 22 800 HUF worth to the most vulnerable people? What is 28 500 HUF worth, the smallest retirement pension that has been unchanged for 13 years? And for the record, there are 18 forms of support assigned to this. There is no need to argue that you can allocate 28 500 forints for a month, because it can be distributed mathematically, but it cannot be assigned. There's no need to argue about it. I believe that, after a change of government, the programme that the six parties adopted provides clear messages or sends to this part of society that, by restoring the Swiss indexation, pensioners will also benefit from the expansion of the economy, that it is not possible to cover with one-off benefits that when they switched to the inflation-following pension increase, more than 400 thousand forints were taken out of a pocket with an average pension per year. Message, clear message that you need to double your family allowance, that you need to double your maternity allowance, and you need to double your child's size. I believe that the change of government will be the answer to these challenges. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-02-22-14	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Korózs. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-02-22-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, From Mr Korózs to the greatest political act in the past, we think of the Kamuvideo, and here he has made a similar fake statement in Parliament, the essence of which is that through inflation he describes the fact that poverty in Hungary has essentially increased, which is obviously not true, and is proven by statistics and figures. You say that no government measures have been taken against inflation, and then you say shortly after that, that one-off measures cannot be taken. Did the government take action against inflation or not? So you're admitting that it happened, but you're declaring it a one-time thing. It is clear that you do not mention anything about the fact that this is an economic process in the world, which all countries are struggling with, especially Europe. There is inflation and price increases in all countries in Europe, and I will also tell you that inflation is the lowest in Hungary in the region, and that inflation is much higher in many countries, and that is what countries are struggling with. But how does Hungary fight inflation? There are two ways to combat inflation: on the one hand, to minimise and reduce people's expenditure as far as possible and, on the other hand, to ensure income, plus income, more, higher than the rate of inflation, on the other. One example is the reduction of the overhead. In Hungary, people feel nothing from the crisis, which is typical throughout Europe; businesses do, but families do not. Families didn't because ten years ago, the government took a measure to reduce the rent, which was a 25 percent reduction at the time. This is still stable today, and it is favourable for the Hungarian people, and this expenditure, extra expenditure, price increases, which are characteristic of Europe as a whole, does not burden their wallets. Direct intervention was the fuel price reduction or stop. The opposition has consistently asked the government to intervene. He did, to a better degree than the left asked the government to do. I don't know, maybe you spoke in Parliament and asked the Prime Minister to increase pensions by at least 5% from January. Was that you or any other politician? The Prime Minister replied here live that pensions will rise by 5 percent. This is not a one-off measure, but it is a permanent measure, since the pension increase will always be part of the pensions received. Then we can talk about the food price stop you're making fun of, laughing at, even though it protects millions of people's wallets from price increases. We can talk about the interest rate stop, which will be good for 500,000 people, because banks cannot raise interest rates and pay the charges on loans at fixed prices. But we can only talk about the February measure you've given away, which affects 4 million people. The 4 million people come out with 2.5 million pensioners receiving a 13th month pension that you have taken, we have now returned it to you, HUF 376 billion, HUF 610 billion for 1 million 400 thousand, HUF 86 thousand for arms, HUF 276 billion for wage increases in the public sector and the competitive sector in January, and a discount for people under the age of 25. If you calculate this, 4 million people and a half billion He got a forint, which, I think, can handle inflation. This is an average of 375 thousand HUF. To say that this government didn't do anything to keep people from feeling inflation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Korós, it's a fake. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-22-16	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Mr Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2022-02-22-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Only 40 days left in the wilderness, only 40 days left until the 3rd of April elections, when we can then judge Viktor Orbán and the one-party overpower of Fidesz. I'd like to present the main charges. I am accusing Viktor Orbán and Fidesz of the fact that, after almost inexhaustible EU funds, more than 75 percent of Hungarian citizens live below the poverty threshold of the European Union. Look at it, not Austria, not Germany, where we wanted to go 32 years ago, just look at our neighbours, look at the Czech Republic, Poland, but unfortunately, Romania, too, everyone has pulled away from us, even though it would have been here with two-thirds of the government for 12 years with every opportunity to really strengthen the well-being and freedom of Hungarian citizens. Instead, you, and let me quote György Matolcsy, President of the Fidesz National Bank, have invested these resources in the concrete of Lőrinc Mészáros and in marble fountains and 30-inch viewers instead of investing in the educated Hungarian heads of people and developing education and health care. I quote György Matolcsy, this 7 percent is not the 7 percent, my fellow Members of Fidesz. So when you are here, let's say, the Bolshevik-like success propaganda about the fact that the national total product has increased above 7 per cent, you forget to tell the respected Hungarian voters that the decline in the year.20 is the base for which this is measured, and if you measure it to the 2019 data, this is not more than 2.1 per cent. Well, it's a big bounce, while 7 percent is the inflation that all Hungarian citizens feel every time they shop. I charge you with hatred and propaganda. Your nation-sharing, hate-hungry propaganda has led our country to the 20-year-old woman, Madam President and one of her members of the Sopron youth department of Jobbik, who is also a very young Fidesz local councilman with a redded head. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Márki-Zay communistza, his own candidate for Prime Minister. Tell that to Marqui-Zay.]] [[9.50]] You? ! Well, all the Communists are sitting on your bench. Excuse me, fellow Members of the House of Fidesz. I can tell you exactly how many former MSZMP members are in your benches. Well, let's leave each other alone. This is as far as you've come with your hatred! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tell it to Márki-Zay.]] You have come this far with the incitement of hatred, and I very much hope that every decent citizen and conservative Hungarian voter will then think very carefully. This is exactly what I called for at the street forum held recently in Sopron with President Peter James, that a decent citizen and conservative voter can never vote for Fidesz again, because they are hateful, and that is against Christian ethics and morality. I'm accusing you of extreme corruption. Mr. Schadl, Mr. Völner, Judit Varga, Mr. Toni, I'm sorry, Mr. President, I was just quoting from the minutes of interrogation, and I don't want to offend Minister Viktor Orbán. The Schadl whose biggest problem is that he can't run with blue lights in the bus lane, right? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Like Christmas Gregory!]] By the way, Völner, Volner. Völner-Volner, because the one-party overpower is now being assured that Jobbik, the only right-centered Christian-social party of the opposition, has been forced onto a list with the motion for amendment announced by Volner, which applies to the electoral law, and then stands up here, and is being played. Well, congratulations to you, there is no more despicable Pharisee conduct on earth. To sum up, therefore, and I have a good news: I call with great peace of mind for all decent citizens and conservative Hungarian citizens to vote for the candidates of the Party Alliance for Hungary in Unity and for the Party Alliance for Hungary in Unity, because the Folk Party Jobbik is the guarantee that once we have restored a balanced civil democracy, once the Hungarian citizens will finally live in prosperity and freedom, we will ensure that all Hungarian citizens have what they are deprived of: the unity of the nation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-02-22-18	Thank you, Congressman Brenner Koloman, Vice President. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2022-02-22-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, It affected a lot of subjects. Let's start with, say, who's a communist and who's a fascist! Your candidate for Prime Minister spoke about it recently, but a few days ago, he also represents the Communists and the fascists. I don't know if he's thinking about you, and I'm gonna need you to talk about this in-house, please. [[Zoltán Balczó: Are we communists?]] What you call a wasted decade, we look at it in a completely different way. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We can see that!]] And then let's get in line, let's say, the economic issues. When this government started operating, it took office, we were trapped in IMF loans; we repaid that loan. I highlight this separately because when a country is confronted with IMF credit, it basically determines its economic scope, it also entails political and economic conditions. And after we got out, with many years of work, we got out of this situation, the economy was on a growing path, so much so that in the years before the epidemic, economic growth was around 5 percent all the time. If you look at last year, despite the epidemic, the Hungarian economy has increased by 7 percent, so we have a basis for comparison when your allies were dealing with a crisis, it has decreased by almost 7 percent. Do you understand the difference? While you're talking about a wasted decade, the economy has shrunk by seven percent, and now these facts are growing by seven percent. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: How much is the salary?]] Then, for example, while the share of Hungarian ownership in strategic industries decreased during the period of left-wing governance, for example in the banking sector has increased to over 60%, this government has taken a lot of steps to increase the proportion of Hungarian ownership. This led to the fact that, fortunately, in the banking sector, in the media, energy, Hungarian ownership is again above 50 percent. What was the opposite of that? Your allies squandered everything, sold 190 Hungarian state companies, and had they been able to govern after 2010, they would have sold the rest. And if you're gonna pull that off, I'd like to remind you that the City Hall would be sold, so they'd even sell their own chairs. And if you were to say that this is an exaggeration, then look at how the building of the TV headquarters was sold: in three years, the Hungarian state had to pay as much rent as it had received for the whole as a privatisation income to build another TV headquarters in PPP. Who's got it right? Gordon Bajnai and his circle, the same characters are closed parentheses. If you look at the jobs, from 12 percent to 12 percent! We managed to reduce unemployment to less than 4 percent, with employment now back on record despite the epidemic. Please compare the Hungarian employment figures with the EU average. This is now a work-based society, as opposed to the time when it was better worth living on aid. If wages are mentioned, real wages have increased by 70 percent in the current governance period. We have a basis for comparison: you have increased by 15% or a few percent in your time with whom you are now shamelessly conspiring. Looking at family support, your allies couldn't offer them anything but foreign exchange loans. Now we've got baby shower support, CSOK, village chocks, preferential loans, green-cheek, it would be long to list. We give support to Hungarians across the border, you have previously considered their support important, and now you have joined those who are still slamming the door on them, even during an epidemic. And in foreign policy, one more difference of opinion between us is not under the carpet, but we still stand up for Hungarian interests. [[Zoltán Balczó: Good!]] If this were to be an unpleasant argument, you'd be like everything else. So once they burned an EU flag, and now they're saying the same thing as any random DK politician. With regard to the issue of violence: so let's not get ahead of ourselves, honourable Member. Well, it wasn't our fellow Members marching in guards, wearing guard vests, it wasn't us, it was you. After that, it is steep to talk about violence, and after your party president has perpetuated hate politics throughout the electoral cycle, not outside the House walls, but here in Parliament every week. So if you're looking for a policy of love, please start with your party president. As for Ferenc Gyurcsány's question, let's stick to the facts. In a few days, a left-wing electoral list will be public. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] List of Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Zoltán Balczó: What place is he in?]] And you're gonna be on it, which means you're gonna face everything you've ever been born for. Take all the consequences of this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-22-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-22-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, with the exception of Hungary, the cost of household rents has increased significantly in each European country after the energy crisis that started last year, because of the rising prices, more and more EU countries are forced to intervene in the energy sector. At home, prices have been stable since the 2013 reduction, and last December the average price of natural gas was the lowest in the comparison of 26 European capitals, while the second lowest in terms of electricity. Hungarian retail consumers also paid the lowest prices throughout Europe in January 2022. In the western part of Europe, gas and electricity prices have increased two to three times, there is only one exception where this has not happened: Hungary. While Hungary was only 16th on the cheapest European gas price list in 2010, in 2020 we paid the second lowest for gas in Hungary. According to a study carried out by the European Commission, Hungary has been able to reduce the share of the households concerned among the Member States of the European Union to the greatest extent in both key indicators of energy poverty since the introduction of the reduction. While 15 percent of households were unable to heat up their homes sufficiently in 2012, this has now decreased to 6 percent, and until almost 25 percent in 2012 by paying household bills regularly due to financial difficulties, this has now fallen to 11 percent. [[10.00]] There are two Member States in Europe, where there has been a decline in the last two years, one in Hungary. These are the results of the reduction in the costs that you, my fellow Members on the left, have so enthusiastically attacked and are attacking now. These results are due to the fact that, despite the attacks of the left-wing and Brussels bureaucrats, we have implemented the reduction of the rent and fixed the retail prices on time. In order for all Hungarians to see clearly on this issue on 3 April, let's see what the left did between 2002 and 2010. You have doubled the price of electricity and tripled the price of gas, 15 increases in household costs. But in the campaigns, they explicitly promised that this would not happen. We know very well that the left is a systematic national asset abuse every time he comes to power. The Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments sold the national wealth for hundreds of billions of HUF, but the Hungarian economy and families did not see a single forint. Friends and foreign interests also sold a good part of the domestic energy sector, which the Fidesz-KDNP government had to buy back after 2010. This was the basic condition of the reduction of the rent. If it were up to the left, today Hungarian people would have to pay their rent at a market price. This would cost families at least 400 thousand forints a year. This is your energy policy. And what's the left one up to now? Let's see what your Prime Minister's candidate has to say, because it is clear that together with Péter Márki-Zay Gyurcsány and you, he would end the reduction of the rent: he considers it particularly harmful to help make the lives of families extremely easier. Especially now, at the time of the Western European regime, the idea of a left-wing candidate is dangerous. Quotes from your Prime Minister's candidate: "Yes, we encourage the public to save energy through prices. You want a higher price? Also Márki-Zay said, "What a fool it was to reduce the overhead. His advice for these times is:. Less water, less gas and less electricity. And here the horse's foot is really hanging out, he said, "In the long run, the market processes are the only sustainable solution, by the way. The message of the left is clear for the elections: there will be no reduction of the rent, there will be no cheap gas, there will be no cheap electricity. They would re-serve Hungarian families to international multinationals and dangerous market prices. This is your program. The other players on the left didn't want to miss it either, Peter James, the leader of the Gyurcsányis party, said: the kind of reduction the government has introduced is the deception of the century. According to Klára Dobrev, there was no reduction in the rent. We understand that it doesn't matter to them, but it does to the Hungarian people. Fidesz-KDNP represents the interests of the Hungarian people, we will protect the reduction of the rent, and we will protect Hungarian households from increasing energy prices. We put in the resisttop, the interest stop, the gas stop, the food stop, and the Gyurcsány stop on April 3rd. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-22-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2022-02-22-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Let me start by saying that according to Eurostat calculations, energy prices increased by 26 percent in one year, not in Hungary, but in Europe. This also means that the rise in energy prices is the main cause of inflation across Europe. In these circumstances, it is even more important that Hungarian families are protected by official prices in Hungary. That's what we call a down payment. According to the autumn calculations, if there were no reduction in the rent, it would amount to more than HUF 30,000 in extra expenses for every Hungarian family every month. And I emphasized that this autumn calculation, because since then prices have increased further, now this amount is certainly higher. And we know that left-wing representatives have openly campaigned against official prices, for example, Péter Márki-Zay said that it is not intended to stop world market prices at the border. It's clear, and it's dangerous. The fact is that this is not the only area where there is a big difference between left and right economic policy. The economic policy programme of the left and right is separated by a world, or I could say, at least three light years apart. And this is not some kind of abstract policy theoretical distinction, because we are talking about differences that fundamentally determine the livelihoods of Hungarians. Let's see, say, seven examples. Left-wing crisis management was about austerity, there was no need for austerity in right-wing crisis management. As a consequence, during the left-wing crisis management, the economy was shrinking by almost 7 percent and last year it grew by 7 percent. Then let's watch the wages. We know that the left-wing prime minister candidate does not support the minimum wage in general, we do. That's why in January we raised it to 300 thousand forints, nearly three times under the steering. There is also a huge difference in the area of taxation. The left still wants progressive taxation. We know what this means in practice, up to 36 percent personal income tax on the current 15 percent. Everyone can calculate how much they would lose with higher left-wing tax rates. Not much, because in the left-wing tax system, for example, everyone has paid a 36 per cent tax on a gross salary of HUF 158 thousand. If that had been the case, even minimum wagers would now face this heavy tax burden. I'd also raise the corporate tax. Anyone who doesn't believe it, look at the budget changes they submitted a few months ago. We also know that family support would be limited. They point to the rich, but the middle class would get scratched. They've done this before, they've shut down a well-functioning family support system once, and what did they give you instead? Nothing. Or to be more specific, they gave him foreign exchange loans with all the terrible consequences. It's not over: according to the candidate on the left, it was foolish to give back the 13th month pension, which is not surprising after his insensitive race, and it was taken away before anyway, and we gave it back, quite rightly. I think it's important to know what kind of health care you want. The one on the left is the one on the other side. The captain said that he was much calmer if the health business, and only a drastic privateization of health can help. Clear words, but that doesn't make it a good policy. And finally, the situation of young generations. From this year on, this government will grant a tax exemption for young people under the age of 25. This has not been the case in Hungary, and the left has not supported this during the vote on the budget. So, those who vote first should know that if they work, they would lose tens of thousands of forints with a left-wing government, on average 40 grand a month. These were seven examples to show that the left did not draw any conclusions from the failures before 2010, they are putting something else in the window right now, but the same figures would sneak back in and do the same thing. By the way, in some places they had access to local governments in 2019, such as the capital city, so it is very clear that they can destroy what millions of people have built over a long, long period of years in just a few months. That's what they did in 2002, almost cost the country. We're not gonna let it happen again, which is why we're gonna be there on April 3rd, and there's gonna be plenty of people there. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-22-24	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Mr János Halász, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-22-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On 3 April there will be parliamentary elections in Hungary. The stakes will be huge, the Hungarian people will decide whether or not to return to the failing Gyurcsány-Bajna era. Remember that in Gyurcsány's day there was no reduction in the rent, but the price of gas and electricity was tripled, family subsidies were abolished, home-building benefits were abolished, and the 13th month pension was also taken away. That's what they're doing right now. And if the Gyurcsánys return, they will also open the borders to illegal immigrants, in addition to the restrictions. They would do so when illegal migration has put unprecedented pressure on law enforcement bodies since 2015. The migrants are increasingly aggressive, increasingly organised, and attacking the Hungarian border in increasingly large groups. Several recordings show that the allegations made by the left that migrants are never aggressive or harming anyone are not true. Unfortunately, our border guards and soldiers, who also defend Hungary's sovereignty, face this aggression every day. We also know from their accounts that they are often attacked by slingshots, slingshots, and large logs, but some had guns. Sometimes migrants want to enter Hungary in organised groups of up to 40-50 members, and they are assisted by smugglers. [[10.10]] According to statistics, this year more violent attacks have taken place on the border than in 2021, in the previous year in total, and the situation will not improve. Today, chaos and civil war are once again in Afghanistan, most analysts believe that under Taliban rule, the country will once again become a hotbed for Islamists and terrorists, and tens of thousands of people have already left the country and are on their way to Europe. We also see that migration to Europe will be strengthened without the situation in Afghanistan. The Balkan migrant route has been refilled, and migrants' entry is continued to be supported by Soros NGOs with money and organisational assistance. We Hungarians are also experiencing this at our borders, as the number of illegal cross-border attempts is rising to a worrying extent in Hungary, and the activity of smuggling networks is also increasing. In 2021, a total of 122 thousand border offenders were detained by the Hungarian authorities and 2200 smugglers were dealt with. In the first month and a half of 2022 migration pressure continued to rise, with over 21,000 migrants trying to break into the country this year. The trend is clear and feared that Hungary must prepare for another wave of migration, even during illegal immigration in 2015. At the same time, it is reassuring that the border fence stands, the strict rules of the legal border lock remain in place, and we can count on the exemplary service of our police and soldiers, who will do their best to guarantee the stability and security of our country. Thank you for your sacrifice, your service. Dear House, It is outrageous and dangerous that the left is constantly attacking the fight against illegal migration, and even continues to be openly pro-immigration. The Gyurcsánys constantly criticize border protection measures, break down the fence and let migrants in. It seems that on the left they do not want to acknowledge that the Hungarians have already said no to immigration. We remember very well when Ferenc Gyurcsány said that Hungary would benefit greatly if he accepted immigrants. But Gergely Christmas has also been exposed last year when she told a German liberal magazine that they are still pro-immigration, but it is not appropriate for them to campaign in Hungary. And we see that nothing has changed on the left, and the newest candidate for Prime Minister of the Gyurcsány coalition said about immigration that I am a supporter of integration, migration is an existing phenomenon, and it is impossible to complete it. We Hungarians don't want any of this. Such statements repeatedly prove that the protection of the country cannot be left to the left. Hungary must go forward, not back, to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people, it is necessary to prevent the Gyurcsány-Bajnai era from returning. The government can count on the Fidesz fraction in the fight against illegal immigration, with the full force of our faction, it stands by the government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-22-26	Thank you very much, Congressman János Halász. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás will respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-02-22-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Since 2015, since the beginning of illegal migration, the Hungarian government's position on migration has not changed, and this position is also entirely in line with the opinion of the vast majority of Hungarian citizens. We have always said and say today that all those who need help, those who are forced to leave their homes, must be helped in the safe area closest to their homes. Since the start of migration, we have claimed that people who are being chased away should not be relocated anywhere but near their own home, near their own borders. It is not the problem that needs to be imported into Europe, but the help that needs to be taken to where these people live. Their safety, the security of their future, also requires the possibility to continue living at home, in their own home. Hungary has been fighting illegal migration since 2015, and I think everyone remembers the hate campaign that fell on Hungary after 2015. Since the beginning, we have been saying that Europe's borders must be protected, that we have built a border fence, that we have created a triple, safe protection against illegal migration; and what God gives is that the Western European countries are slowly starting to defend themselves in a similar way, and that European politicians who have come to the new government are now increasingly demanding that Europe's borders should be protected at external borders, that illegal migration should be stopped there. Of course, no one is apologizing for their hatred of the Hungarian measures at the time; they do not apologize to the Hungarian people for the fact that they have undertaken this task from the beginning to protect Europe from illegal migration. As we can see with the Germans, everyone was invited to Germany, and then they wanted, after their particular selection tools, those invited to Europe to be spread out, otherwise also deceiving the migrants who left Germany and believed that prosperity would be waiting for them. The Germans thought then that German politics would keep what was necessary for them there, and that the others would be distributed, say, to Bulgaria or Portugal, and that would destroy not only the nations of Europe, but also those who were invited to their own country. From the beginning, we are opposed to this type of migration, and from the beginning we are opposed to such an insane attempt to stop population loss. Unfortunately, migration does not stop, unfortunately, migration is getting stronger, and indeed, there are more and more sources of conflict outside Europe, more and more conflict areas, and there is a conflicted country from which people start. Now, winter doesn't stop them either, which is why it is necessary to continue to protect the borders strongly, and while, as I had just mentioned, in the western part of the European Union, they realized that their country must be protected, for example, we remember, although no one may remember the name of the Austrian Chancellor at that time, but his sentence was exciting when he said that they were not building a fence, but winged gates. They have changed, and now they agree that borders must be protected, but the costs that we have spent to protect the border are still not recognised, and the subsidies that Hungary needs to maintain in order to maintain border protection are not guaranteed by the European Union. But we would also be pleased if the European Union were to defend its own borders more effectively, halt migration at borders, and give those fleeing their homes a chance to get close to their own country to get through the difficult time, so that they could return to where they were born, where they came from. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-22-28	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. The following is the 1997 CXXIV on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches. general debate on the bill amending laws and other laws until closure. Government referral T/18205. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-02-22-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill to be discussed by Parliament is entitled to amend the law on the material conditions of the religious and public activities of the churches, but the draft legislation contains a number of legislative amendments, from the amendment of the Mining Act through the Nuclear Energy Act to the amendment of the Act on Adult Education. [[10.20]] If you will allow me, I would not go into all of them in detail now, because, on the one hand, in the detailed debate, it will be possible to discuss in depth the proposals for amendments to certain laws and, on the other hand, I would not like to abuse the patience of my fellow Members. The aim of the bill is also to remedy the unfair administrative situation of our two cities, Baja and Esztergom, for decades, by bringing both cities back to county-righted cities once the proposal is adopted. The intention of making it a county-righted city is fair to its troubles and to the people of Esztergom, who, thanks to its loyalty and work, have grown in both cities in recent decades, but also the region and the country. During Hungary's history, external and internal forces have repeatedly attempted to break up the country's organic administrative fabric and thus weaken the country's immune system. These forces eliminated, rendered impossible, and then evacuated the county system and its headquarters, which constitute the protective bulwark of Hungarian sovereignty. Such experiments were the Turkish Villas of Obstetrics, the Habsburg administration system, the demolition of the country in Trianon, and the Hungarian Communists' lied action in 1950, aimed at the Sovietisation of the country's administration. Between 1930 and 1950 the county city was a legal category of cities in Hungary. According to Act No. 3 of 1929 on the settlement of public administration, the names of cities with so far settled councils have changed to county cities. The name indicated that these cities belonged to one of the counties. The city with legal authority is XLII of 1870 on the public administration. According to the law, it was a category of cities and law authorities in Hungary, and all of this worked between 1870 and 1950. The legal city status and county city status ended in 1950 as a result of the communist takeover. The legal system has been replaced by the Council system. During the transformation, they forced the single Council system on our country, as socialist government, on the basis of objective reasons, did not want the inhabitants to identify their cities with the urban name of the civil era. On 1 January 1950, Hungary's administrative function was transformed. Instead of the 25 counties that existed in the past, 19 counties were created. The reorganization of the counties in 1950 has led to the relocation of the county seat in several cases. Among the cities adversely affected by the changes were Esztergom and Baja. Baja, which was a city governed by law from 1873 to 1950, fell victim to Sovietism called county planning, when in 1950 he lost his public status as the seat of the former Bács-Bodrog county. However, history teaches us that life cannot be raped, despite the unviable disenfranchisation, the city still has a central importance for the nearly 120 thousand people living in the region. Esztergom, which used to be a county city, is also suffering from administrative changes and destruction in 1950. In the case of the first city of the country, the settlement of the communist county was a particularly unworthy procedure, given that the settlement near the Danube, from the time of our founding king, St. Stephen, served as the seat of the county of the same name until these transformations. It has thus maintained its status in Megysékeshegy even after the Trianon peace dictates. Esztergom was one of the first ecclesiastical, political and cultural centers of the medieval Hungarian state, as the headquarters of the Hungarian Catholic Church and the historic headquarters of Hungary's primacy, so the communists were particularly angry with this city. They committed a serious crime not only to deprive him of his county seat status, but to knowingly exclude him from the development. Although this was meant to harm the church, their malicious actions actually punished the people of the city and the region, along with the people of the Highlands. But not only do the historical merits of the past centuries justify the designation of the two cities as county-righted cities, but also the present and recent performances. The development in the history of the rich Esztergom has also been exceptional in recent years, and as a result it has once again become a social, cultural and economic centre for the tens of thousands of geographical units. Furthermore, due to the work of the first Orbán government, the Mária Valéria bridge inaugurated in 2001, Esztergom, which has a cross-border catchment area, represents not only a metaphorically but also a gateway to the Hungarians of the Highlands, the neighbouring Slovakia. The reconstruction of the bridge has put an end to decades of unblessed conditions between the two countries in terms of everyday life. The amendment thus gives justice to the cities of Baja and Esztergom, and to their catchment area by relocating them, the two cities in the line of county-righted cities, where they belong on the basis of their historical past, economic, cultural and administrative infrastructure and performance. Dear Parliament, Speaking of old debts to legislation, the bill before us also seeks to pay off the old debts of legislation in the field of public service, wealth management and cultural regulation through a number of minor clarifications, as well as the rules for cooperation with churches in the field of higher education after public education and social territory. As you know, the right to freedom of conscience and religion is fully enshrined in the Fundamental Law of Hungary, so it is the fundamental right of all Hungarian citizens. The state and religious communities operate separately. Religious communities are independent, but the state and religious communities can work together to achieve Community goals. In view of the involvement of established churches in the tasks of achieving Community objectives, the State grants specific entitlements. The fundamental principles of the Fundamental Law are set out in detail in the 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religious groups and religious communities. Law, the Church Act. With regard to religious communities, church law implements structured regulations, taking into account the number of communities, their historical and social embeddedness. The law also sets out in detail the arrangements for cooperation between the State and religious communities. The bill that has now been submitted basically includes amendments and additions to the Church Finance Act, which have become necessary in the light of past years' experience in the application of the law, which are of a technical and text-focused nature, in particular in order to establish coherence within the law. At the same time, on the basis of the submitted bill, the Church Finance Act is complemented by detailed rules on established higher education institutions maintained by religious communities, particularly those of the church. The government is committed to the quality transformation of Hungarian higher education. It cannot be overlooked that in recent years the number of students of ecclesiastical higher education institutions has increased significantly, which now exceeds 30,000. Two major universities, the Pázmány Péter Catholic University and the Károli Gáspár Reformed University are also ecclesiastical, which represent a significant portion of the Hungarian higher education institution system. These changes were no longer reflected in the comprehensive agreements in force between the Churches of Higher Education and the Government of Hungary. As a result, it is necessary to extend the practice of improving the quality of renewed higher education to the enlarged ecclesiastical institutional sphere, and therefore it is also appropriate to regulate cooperation in the field of higher education in detail. They provide legal guarantees and allow for the conclusion of strategic framework agreements for quality improvement and predictability and the amendment of existing agreements to this effect. [[10.30]] To this end, a new chapter is added to the Church Finance Act, which includes guarantee rules for the provision of public tasks in higher education in religious communities. At the same time, it provides the opportunity for institutions of formal ecclesiastical reserve of higher education to make measurable commitments for a six-year funding period in the public service funding contract, such as reducing early school leaving, regional retention, location in the ecclesiastical institution network, progress in credit, scientific publications, PhD students, internationalization, social inclusion, talent management, cooperation with non-church higher education institutions, further training and conferences. In addition, ecclesiastical institutions can also receive support along specific value-added, training and other activities and related development goals in line with their social mission. In this context, it is necessary to emphasise that the quality reform of the higher education institutions of the Church and the subsequent state aid are carried out on the basis of strict criteria, so that church maintainers who are able and willing to do so in the long term, based on their organisation, their social support, their historical and social role and their experience in the performance of such activities. In view of the demands raised with regard to the amendment of the Church Finance Act, it was also necessary to review which provisions of the Act are based on Article VII of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. The legislative proposal also proposes that the provisions on cooperation between the State and religious communities set out in Article 5 (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be amended accordingly. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Another significant segment of the draft law is the amendment of the Company Tax and dividend tax Act, which is based on changes in the EU provisions on the regional aid map. On 16 September 2021, the European Commission adopted Hungary's regional aid map for the period 2022-27, which should apply from 1 January 2022. The most important changes in this are, compared to the 2014-2020 programming period, the fact that Pest County is already an independent region, and many have been waiting for this for a long time. Thanks to the revised aid map, the possibility has been opened for further development of the relatively underdeveloped region of Pest, and in this context, we are introducing this positive change in the rules on development tax relief, like the cash support rules. As a result, any initial investment by a large undertaking in the county of Pest may become eligible for State aid. Dear Parliament, The bill now also thinks of the county as a whole by proposing, within the framework of EU rules, to increase the aid intensity of energy efficiency investments in Pest County. The proposed changes to both the development tax reduction and the energy efficiency tax reduction will help stimulate investment in Pest County, contributing to investment growth and creating new jobs in the region. Dear Parliament, It is also important to mention the amendment of the draft law on the Constitutional Court, which aims to increase transparency and transparency so that decisions can be made known as soon as possible and have legal effect as soon as possible; therefore, in the future, all decisions of the Constitutional Court will be published in the official paper "The decisions of the Constitutional Court" and the rule that the Constitutional Court's specific, most important decisions and orders will be published in the Hungarian Gazette will remain unchanged. In addition, the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, which opens the possibility of judicial review by the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee in order to comply fully with the Constitutional Court's decision, also against its order authorising the conclusion of the contract in the highest public interest. This will further increase judicial control of public procurement, further reducing the possibility of abuse. The amendment also states that the application for an action against an order authorising the conclusion of a contract should have a suspensive effect on the enforcement of the order. Dear Parliament, I ask for the support and adoption of the bill submitted. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-02-22-30	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-02-22-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us includes clarification of the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches and amendments to a number of other laws, to which I wish to address in my speech. But let me, above all, thank you here and now for the value-making work of the churches, for their precious service to human lives. Before I present some parts of the proposal, please allow me to quote the idea of István Tisza, an excellent statesman of Hungarian history, as a support for the importance of cooperation with churches. It says: "I see much greater power in the church, I see much more kinship between the church's religious moral profession and the state's highest purpose. I find it much more beneficial to connect and cooperate with each other, much more damaging if these two work against each other, rather than approving the state simply interrupting all ties with the church. I believe that these words also point to the activities of our churches, which play a significant role in the life of our state as the indispensable institutions of nation-building. The bill submitted, as my fellow Members know, mainly contains a legislative and text-focusing amendment to the law on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches, which has been justified by the experience of the law enforcement of the past years, since legal certainty and the need to ensure consistency within the law are also required. But there are also new elements, as the Secretary of State has pointed out. As a result of the model change in the financing of higher education, such a change reflects the government's decision to include quality and performance elements in funding, including church funding, funding of higher education, and thus the funding of church-reserved and model-changing institutions will be and will be at the same level. The bill before us contains the general rules applicable to the public tasks and institutions of religious communities in higher education, of which I would point out that the new funding system should be applied to a specific circle of established churches. Thus, established churches, internal ecclesiastical legal entities and higher education institutions with a strategic framework agreement setting out the financing requirements for public higher education tasks or a comprehensive agreement including this subject. In view of the financing of the public service provision of higher education, the bill also sets out the concept of a public service mission in higher education, which is complemented by the fact that if the public mission of the religious community is performed in accordance with its internal rule by means of an internal legal person, unity, organisation or institution of the Church, it is also a public task in relation to the performance of the public service mission of higher education. [[10.40]] I also welcome the fact that the bill sets out the concept of a public service contract between the Minister for Higher Education and the established church with an agreement, its binding content and its detailed rules in the framework of long-term quality and performance funding. In addition to the above, the proposal is aimed at bringing further target support to the legal level, in addition to the church target grants based on existing legal provisions. An important and ecclesiastical change is that the proposal before us amends the expression of the text of the current standard to teach faith, which includes supporting titles of support existing at the time of adoption of the bill and the support for forms of faith teaching that may replace them. In addition, clarification provisions for the correction of the amount of the annual allowance are included in the text of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State has presented further details and amendments to a number of other legislative proposals that have been published, and I would like to highlight some of them, and I would like to mention some of them. I also believe that we will pay historic debt by giving Baja and Esztergom a county-righted city rank, which lost its status as a public-law entity during the communist county settlement in 1950. The bill on the House's table also proposes the introduction into the system of corporate tax advantages applicable from 1 January 2022, which will enable any start-up investment by a large company in Pest County with the exception of the capital city to be eligible for State aid. It is important to note, as Mr Secretary of State pointed out, that the restrictions and additional conditions for investments by large enterprises in Pest County will be lifted. The proposed changes in both the development tax reduction and the energy efficiency tax reduction will help to increase investment in Pest County, contributing to investment growth in the region. Another point is that the bill also provides for the amendment of the nuclear law in order to increase the power of the President of the National Atomic Energy Office to establish a regulation and thus to assist in the work of the President of the National Atomic Energy Office in order to perform his tasks more effectively. The submitted bill also provides that the law on the protection of cultural heritage should be amended in such a way as to extend the National Memorial Site of the Castle District in Budapest to the building of the Castle Garden Bazaar. It is important to note that, as part of the draft law, an exception to the procurement procedure for procurement below the EU threshold is added, as well as the regulation of the legal remedy for the authorisation of contracts is amended. In addition to the above, as Mr Secretary of State pointed out, the proposal also contains amendments to certain asset management issues. Ladies and gentlemen, It was also apparent from the State Secretary's Expo that we had a very abundant proposal ahead of us and that the amendments envisaged in the bill would guarantee that the Church's previously acquired rights would be strengthened, that the state recognition of the Church's value-making activities would be strengthened, and that they would serve the further legislative objectives outlined by the Secretary of State. I would therefore like to say that the Fidesz fraction will support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-02-22-32	Thank you, Congressman Mónika Bartos. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2022-02-22-33	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, When we received the legislative programme for the spring semester, there were two interrelated proposals, the budget of 2023 and the laws underlying it. Compared to this, on 15 February, the current law was submitted to amend a certain number of laws on the material condition of the religious and public activities of the churches, and it might have been manageable in all respects, but what other laws should be considered and decided in the same bill. We're talking about a super salad bill. The church theme is highlighted in its title and is the largest in its scope, but it begins with the amendment of the Mining Act and regulates 19 different non-linked areas. This is unacceptable for us, better opposition representatives, because, in part, a coherent position on this cannot be expressed, but most importantly, we have only one vote on these amendments tabled in the final vote. Why do I say that it is an almost insurmountable problem for opposition representatives? Not for the pro-government parties because, in part, the pro-government majority is implementing the government's legislative programme, which does not mean that there was no precedent during the period of the Orbán government, between 1998 and 2002, that the government proposal that was submitted was, in fact, a kind of property tax that was apparently not supported by Parliament on the way to real estate, and that this proposal was not even put to the vote. This is, therefore, the irresolvable difficulty of opposition representatives at present. By the way, the essential part is indeed about the religious and public activities of the churches, these are nine pages, within which six paragraphs require a two-thirds acceptance. I quote: "It is about financing public education, higher education, vocational training, health, charity, social, family, children's and youth protection, cultural and sports activities provided by churches from the central budget, and I have listed this because it is indeed a very wide circle in which the Hungarian churches carry out this activity in a way that can be replaced by others. Jobbik is aware that this must be maintained and supported. So if I ask two questions now, if I do, it is indeed a question, and I would not doubt that it is necessary to ensure this funding. One is that funding in public education institutions to the same extent is what the law defines in relation to state and local government institutions. In higher education, this sector neutrality is no longer maintained, because it says that at least it is the same as the public institutions, so in fact it maintains the distinction in a positive direction that this so-called sector neutrality does not prevail, which is otherwise in public education. So this difference is also a question. The fact that six-year contract intervals are created is understandable from the point of view of the need for predictability. [[10.50]] In relation to the fact that a binding commitment can be agreed in advance for up to six years beyond the budget year, the only question arises as to the extent to which the obligation of six years in advance may limit the Parliament's right to establish a budget. This is a question, since the six-year cycle passes, but of course I do not doubt the need for predictable funding. So governments, regardless of the colour of the parties, must provide this reassuring background. I would like to say that, unfortunately, there are many statements in the campaign that do not correspond to reality, so I regret to read that Mr. Secretary of State, who is indeed the competent person in church affairs, at the blessing ceremony of a renovated church, so to speak, has been a strong threat to churches and rural people when the opposition, therefore Jobbik, comes to power. I was more afraid of the rest of this campaign, and let me give you an example here. Viktor Orbán posted a Facebook post the other day, it was very short:, If the Gyurcsánys return, they will open the borders. We won't let him! Now let me add: this is all that is opposition, the Gyurcsány in the past, and it is also distorted. The six-party programme strongly includes action against illegal migration. I quote Péter Márki-Zay, our joint Prime Minister's candidate:. The fence is a working element in preventing illegal migration. After the opposition's election victory, it would remain in place. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Róbert Zsigó: There will be no gas price increase.]] I'll, uh, I think you'll say something. 'Cause I didn't hear exactly, so I can't react, and then when you speak... [[Robert Zsigó: There will be no gas price increase! The president's ringing the bell.]] So, Jobbik didn't talk about gas price increases or reductions. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: At least we're reducing it! Interview from Jobbik's benches: We didn't see it! The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm glad we're going to a folk hural like this. So far, I have looked at this Parliament in a way that I have often failed to comply with what is the spirit of this building. But perhaps now, probably in my last speech to Parliament... because more than a year ago, I decided not to be aspirant to another term of office, but this is not a matter of public interest, this is personal from the point of view of my speech. So I'll continue: he also raised the question of re-establishing the border guard. I know that it is possible to have a substantive debate with State Secretary Károly Kontra on the right place for the police. We see it drawing forces away from the police task, so we need an independent border guard, but that doesn't mean we want to let illegal migrants in. So I would very much like for questions about churches to be, of course, subject to debate, we can judge each other; but let us not go so far as to say that there is almost a destruction of churches if the opposition comes to power. By the way, I would like to quote a Prime Minister's speech on Parliament's meeting:. The government is determined to establish a long-term and predictable relationship between the Hungarian state and the churches, the Hungarian state and the government. This applies to church education, budget support for churches, as well as to the settlement of ecclesiastical property. This draft agreement also eliminates the last remnant of the partial vulnerability in which the churches have so far been facing the current power. In particular, first of all, churches enjoy equal treatment with secular institutions, i.e. state and municipal institutions, in respect of public education, higher education, social care and the rest of their public service activities. This is what Gyula Horn said at the Parliament meeting, while the agreement between the Republic of Hungary and the Holy See was approved on 15 May 1997. What I'm trying to say is that the assessment and support of these churches' activities didn't start with the current government. I recognise that, since 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government has provided very large resources to support these activities. Unfortunately, however, I must add that he has used this support to reward churches and organizations loyal to the governing parties, and there are those who are critical of the government and those who are being punished. So I think that this should not be the standard, but the continuation of real, actual activity. Well, Mr Secretary of State spoke in more detail about one subject: extending the list of cities with county rights. Yes, we agree that Baja and Esztergom are worthy of becoming a county-righted city. And I am going to point out one more issue that is very important to us, and with which I can point out why it is so difficult for us to decide on this issue in the final vote. This is the real estate application and expansion of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, because it is an issue that the governing party sees differently on principle and the opposition sees differently; namely, the modernisation of so-called higher education. I do not want to go back to political debate on this subject, but perhaps I would like to indicate that, in the manner in which the governing party believes that higher education will operate under the authority of public-use trust foundations, where the state hands over the exercise of founding rights to the Boards, we have discussed this. I just want to indicate that on this issue, we are in a different position on the basis of principle, so we do not support this bill, which confirms this type of higher education development with this concrete step. Then I ask the question: what should be the final vote? What's it gonna be? On the basis that this is an important matter for us, we vote no. At that moment, I hear the Secretary of State in charge of this area saying that you, Baja, you, the opposition to Esztergom, do not support this right? We support him where he is. In fact, I am afraid that if we did not vote in this way because of this important issue, then I would hope to say no, that, behold, it has been proven that you, the Left, Jobbik, do not support the financing of the public activities of the churches. So what do we do now? If we abstain, it's practically a polite one. That is why I am indicating that the introduction of this type of salad law makes it impossible for a Member to make a substantive decision according to his best conviction. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[11.00]] Last sentence: I am in a lucky position because it seems that this final vote will take place in the next term, and I do not have to vote. And I would suggest to my faction that you do not take part in such a vote. Thank you for your patience.
u2022-02-22-34	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Balczó. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-02-22-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, In my fellow Member Balczó's speech, much has been said, and I would like only to clarify one or two things from what he said, for example, because he accused the Secretary of State of being alarmed by church politics, but he also raised the issue of immigration here in Parliament, or even the support of churches. In the last few months, we have heard dozens of times from DK, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Klára Dobrev and their various leaders that DK is the strongest party on that side, DK has the most voters, DK will have the largest group on that side in the next Parliament, so they will manage that side because it is the strongest faction, the strongest party that sets the common direction, honourable Member. Obviously, you know perfectly well that a weaker faction, a smaller faction, has less say in it than a stronger one. You know that, because you can know this based on the experience of an experienced Member, either in the European Parliament or in the experience of the Hungarian Parliament. When the Secretary of State said that Hungarian churches, Hungarian church subsidies, would be at risk under a possible left-wing government, he too spoke from experience, yes, honourable Member. Because they were in danger before 2010, when Gergely Arató, as secretary of state for education, refused to pay the rightful subsidies to church schools. Or when they left thousands of churches in Hungary and the Carpathian Basin to crumble, they continued the communist heritage, when no churches were renovated in fifty years. Then, between 2002 and 2010, left-wing governance continued to do the same. When Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of the left, regularly hired, he found that he would evict the priests from school. Ágnes Vadai submitted a proposal to the National Assembly in which he campaigned to abolish the secret of confession, which even the Communists dared not touch. There is a formation in history that has done this, the Nazis, honourable Member. We speak from these experiences when we say such sentences. Gergely Christmas discusses the desecration of the holy water reservoir, honourable Member. These are experiences, not some thought, not some idea, but those are the sentences of your allies, the sentences of your friends. And if you have mentioned the issue of immigration: your candidate for Prime Minister, Péter Márki-Zay, said that the most important thing for him is that if you arrive in the Carpathian Basin, you should enjoy yourselves. He also said that no one was harmed by immigrants or that he saw mass immigration as a problem. And the fence? Honourable Member, the sentence from the Mayor of DK, Péter Niedermüller, that border fences are morally untenable and that he is right to Ferenc Gyurcsány when he said that the refugee policy of the Hungarian government is unacceptable. These are experiential facts, honourable Member, which is why we say yes, under the leadership of DK, the left-wing coalition would break down the fence, allow immigrants to enter, eliminate or significantly reduce church support, and in this way it could be dangerous for Hungarian society, our national community, because we believe that border fences are needed, and we believe that there is a need for value-making, community-organizing historical churches with deep social embeddedness, and that the state has no right to support these services, these tasks. That is part of what the current bill is about. Obviously, Mr Harvester will stand up and we can listen to his usual anti-religious outbursts here in the Chamber. But we're used to this, it's an experience genre, honourable Member. We consider it a priority to support the life of faith, the ability of Hungary and the Hungarian economy to devote significant resources to preserving our Christian culture, our roots and our values. The fact is, honourable Member and honourable Members, since 2010 more than 3,000 churches have been renewed in the Carpathian Basin and nearly 200 new ones have been built. It's a big deal. During the same period, hundreds of churches were closed or converted in Germany and France. I think it's an achievement worth being proud of. This is a result that we can be proud of together with the Hungarian people. Of course, Gergely Arató misses out on this shared pride, because he thinks it's a mistake, but that's DK. Let us note that he was the one who did not pay the church schools for their support. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, since 2010, the number of students in church kindergartens and primary and secondary schools has doubled, today 220,000 students are attending institutions with church reservations. It's a good direction, it's a good thing, I think. And last year, a decision was made on the Hungarian church reconstruction programme, thanks to which 1800 churches will be renewed next year. I think we should not lose sight of this, because this is not only about renovation, it is not only about preserving heritage, it is about maintaining buildings, it is about supporting communities, because with a decision like this community spaces are renewed, camping sites are renewed, sites are renewed that give a support to the Hungarian church and Christian community. From this we can emerge stronger, we can gain experiences, we can make lifelong friendships on these sites that help us to maintain our values, and also help to maintain our Christian culture, which, I think, is an important task in the present world that tries to attack churches, Christian culture, Christian democracy on all sides, and tries to relativity the question of faith and personal faith. The Secretary of State spoke in more detail about the ecclesiastical financing of higher education. It was also mentioned that Várkert Bazaar was included in the annex to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. I'd like to talk about Esztergom and Baja a little more, because this is an important recognition for Esztergom and Baja cities. These two municipalities are economically stable, dynamically developing and capitalising centres for the provision of high-level public services, economic, cultural and educational services. And this is also a historical recompense for Esztergom and Baja, as it will give the former county seats something back from the appreciation they have lost because of the system of council made up by the Communists. I think that is why the current bill is a historical satisfaction. There are still a number of amendments to the proposal, Mr Secretary of State has discussed them. By amending the Public Procurement Act, public procurement will become stricter, more verifiable, more efficient and more transparent. The amendment ensures full compliance of public procurement rules with the Fundamental Law by opening up the possibility of judicial review in the event of a decision by the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee authorising the conclusion of a contract in the highest public interest. This will further increase judicial control of public procurement, further reducing the possibility of abuse. This judicial review to be introduced will be swift and effective, so it will not significantly impede procurement in the short term, even in view of important public interest. I think it's important. Let us not incorporate another bureaucratic barrier into the system, but increase transparency and review. If there were long deadlines here, 30, 60, 90, 120 days, then I would not be in favour of this law either, because it must be continuous, fast and effective, thus preserving the guarantees. My fellow Christian Member will certainly talk about nuclear energy, and then it will also be possible to argue about it, but overall, I think that all of the amendments, including the small details of the symbolic, significant and important legislative amendments, fall into the eligible category. I do not think it is a matter of conscience, because it does not matter what the political sides think of the university's purpose or its leadership, so that the real estate in which the education is conducted can be managed and received, and it does not always have to run to some higher body if a window has to be replaced, I think it is the right direction, honourable Member. In this respect, it is not political debates around the University of Theatre and Film Arts that are sharpened, but the university simply receives the institution it uses, the property in which the level of education can continue to increase. I therefore believe that this is also a public interest. So the KDNP fraction can support all points of the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-22-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mr Dezső, Member Believer, notary, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[11.10]]
u2022-02-22-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. In fact, it occurred to me that, even at the end of the term, the power still has surprises for us, because the presentation of this law was quite a surprise, and not only for us, for the opposition, but also for the pro-government. I mean, I've been watching what you're planning for this semester in terms of legislation, and I'm telling you, it wasn't planned in any way. I have been thinking about the reason why you came up with this bill. It wasn't hard to decipher, especially as a politician: there's a campaign. Obviously, the elements that suggest that this has come here because we are living in a campaign period are very well understood in this bill. It is also clear that there are some things that need to be provided, some that need to be provided, and then it is well understood that there are constituencies where it has been assessed that there really is some kind of assistance that the pro-government candidate needs, and that I will discuss it a little later. At the time when I read the title of the law, at the first moment I was overcome with a kind of elevation, for as I looked at it, I felt that it would certainly be a matter of faith and public activity. In fact, on the basis of this title, I thought it was a tasteless thing for the first time how mining, nuclear energy, food chains, wealth, adult education, public procurement, the donation of Várkert Bazár, county-righted urban title would be included. Then, if you look not only at the title, but you read the title accurately and then look at it, then this rise will go down quite quickly, because it is not about faith and public activity, but about the material conditions of it, and then another 19-20 topics that might be able to include these topics in the campaign. In fact, I tried to think of the Secretary of State's place. Well, it can't be easy. Here, reading through these topics, you should not be Secretary of State, at least be Prime Minister, to all these topics... [[Defiance.]] I don't want to hurt you. It was just a suggestion. So if we take these issues seriously here and there are questions about all of them, it would not be easy if you had to answer them. But obviously we can also see that this is not going to work, because we do not have much of an opportunity to do so. Why do I say that? Because it's a salad law. We who sit here know exactly what this salad law means. But did the people who judge our work know? In my opinion, not everyone is certain, so it may be worth telling you what it means to bring this law here in the form of a salad law. The salad law means that several laws, in this case 19 or 20, are amended by a single law. By making one decision to amend this proposal on nearly twenty issues, the possibility of cooperation is being removed from Members. We cannot discuss the content, the meaning of each amendment, because it is not possible to vote on it otherwise, it could be said only in packages: either all or none. This does not allow us to talk about it in a meaningful way. Even if there is something we can support, we can't, because there are a lot of things we can't support. On this basis, I have said to myself that it can be concluded that the author was not driven by the intention of cooperation, not by the intention to discuss these proposals, but by the purpose of creating a kind of dictatorship, we must admit that it was a success, if that was the aim, and for us the possibility of cooperation was impossible. Therefore, I would not dare to deal with most of the questions that have been raised here, on the one hand because we have limited time and, on the other hand, because not everyone can understand so many subjects. That is why I am now engaged in dealing with an issue that the Secretary of State has also shown as a central element in his exposé, and I also believe that this is such a central part of it, and the media also thought that this could be such a central issue, and this is the donation of county-righted urban status to the cities of Baja and Esztergom. I am surprised that they have been in power for 12 years, and that has not been mentioned before, in the correct way: there was a vote on this once in 11; that was not the point of that vote. In any case, I see that there is no reason why you have started to address this issue. They haven't dealt with it in any way in 12 years, but now it's turned up. Here we can see well that there is now a campaign, and Fidesz is also running in campaign mode. It may even have been said that there were some fellow Members who said that there were certainly some pro-government candidates whose status must be saved. I think that this decision, if it really came as a goal, will not be enough. I'd like to deal with Baja a little more, because I may know it better as a member of Budapest, but that environment doesn't have opposition representatives, so it's not very good at dealing with this issue, but it might be a little closer to me. I sense that people in this area, especially those who deal with politics, have long been concerned about this issue, the county-righted city rank, and I even sense that people have gone further than that. What I'm sensing is that they're already thinking of a separate county in Bács County, and they want it to be Baja's seat. Obviously, this does not answer these questions, but this is a real problem, which is what concerns people there, so I think that this should be said here, and there are certainly more people who are concerned about it. They may also be concerned because the county seat is more than a hundred kilometers from Baja, and this obviously raises countless other problems. But even more serious is the fact that Baja's city and the environment of its inhabitants have been almost completely left out from development sources, and that it has not been able to be turned on to the Modern Cities programme. So I think it wouldn't have been a problem with the title if something else had been given. For example, Baja has a 109 - mile [109 km] road network, of which 23 km [23 km] of dirt. That's a strange statement in today's world, but unfortunately, the fifth of the roads are unbuilt. So it's not that you have to mess around or you're not in a bit of a bad state. There's no road for 23 kilometers. I think that this is also a sign that confirms that people here want something else, that they want more than just to come up with this title for their city. I think that, in addition to this title, a development package should be given for both cities, and that their desire for their own county and their desire could indeed be a component of the programme that we should be dealing with here in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2022-02-22-38	Thank you very much, notary Dezső, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. [[11.20]]
u2022-02-22-39	Thank you very much. Dear House, This bill is an excellent example of how you do not take legislation seriously, for the past four years, how your legislative activity mixes hypocrisy, unprofessionalism and disregarding parliamentary traditions. We would not otherwise be able to come before us with a bill, which also contains an amendment to the nuclear power law, entitled the amendment of the law on church law. Unless, by the way, these amendments are approved by the Parliament, only the Good Lord will save us from the dangers of nuclear power, because the nuclear authority in this form will no longer be able to protect us. I would like to talk a little bit more about three issues, in total, 19 laws are affected by this amendment, and I would like to express our position on two very briefly. I'd like to start by amending the Church Act. What is important to stress, perhaps by doing so, I am disappointed to Mr Nacsa that this bill itself contains eligible, positive elements. The type of legal clarification which otherwise makes clear what kind of church public services are subject to subsidies is also extended to include certain activities, namely those which are indeed activities for community purposes, or which allow and clarify a number of procedural, technical rules for higher education. Unfortunately, however, they do not remedy the fundamental political and legal, professional problems of your church support system. What I'm talking about, when I'm talking about hypocrisy and what your political problems with your support system or church policy are, it's enough to go back to yesterday. Because your church policy is about the fact that there are churches that you consider to be valuable for some reason, to be supported and recognised on political or other grounds, and they are also supported, not only by the fiscal law, not only by laying down the rules, but also by many billions of forints of uncontrolled, individual government decisions. And while on one side they give favor and on the other side they punish churches who, in some ways, do not meet your political interests. You're sending the NAV to a church community that can't pay its responsibilities, because you're illegally, despite the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, you're not paying them the fair support that you've been chasing, disadvantageing and looting for ten years, well, now you're sending the NAV on them, destroying their service, their activity. The children who attend their schools do not matter to you; the elderly who are provided by them do not matter to you; the homeless who are cared for by them do not matter to you. You commit the greatest sin that a state can commit in church politics: distinguish between church and church, distinguish between believing man and believer, distinguish between church community service and community service. This church policy is ruining the churches. It also destroys those it supports, not just those it punishes, because it pushes them into addiction because it makes these church communities a servant of the state. And we are protesting against this, and we will protest against it every time, because the freedom of religion, conscience and churches is conditional upon the state acting in a neutral and fair manner in church politics; it makes it necessary that the state, Congressman Nacsa, equally supports any child attending church schools and indeed supports children attending church and state schools equally. That's why I stood up 20 years ago, and that's why I'm standing up now, not so that the kids in church school don't get what they deserve, but so that the kids in public school get what they deserve. This bill does nothing to help, because apart from this political favor, this bill also maintains the kind of distinction in which, by the way, you classify churches as churches or religious communities on the basis of their own mouths, essentially political decisions, or I know how, and otherwise, by your arbitrary decision, they conclude or do not conclude a public service contract with them. If there is a fair non-religious, religious, non-religious, ecclesiastical church-friendly policy after 3 April, then church politics will eliminate this distinction. Dear Congressman Nacha! In your alliance of parties, the Fidesz-KDNP alliance, it may be customary for the great to dictate and the lesser to obey, but it is not so in the opposition alliance. Our culture is not based on strong dictates. Our culture is based on discussing and agreeing with each other. And there are parties among us that prefer left-wing, secular tradition, and there are some, such as Jobbik, which are more of a Christian social tradition. We're looking for compromises. You will see, we will present our program on Friday, and you will also see what we propose to the churches. We propose equal funding and equal standards for all church communities. We propose equal funding for all public tasks, whether they are provided by a church, a civil society organisation or by the state. We will suggest that we judge in a fair way what the churches are otherwise doing. Well, then I'd like to move on to the nuclear power bill. I have already mentioned our view on this: you have basically destroyed the independent nuclear surveillance in several steps. The professional brakes that would protect security aspects were removed when you were otherwise engaged in nuclear energy development, and this is not for nothing. Your great friend, President Putin, who just yesterday proved that he does not care about international law and does not care about Hungarian interests, wants to build a nuclear power plant in Hungary, your leader, Viktor Orbán is an enthusiastic partner, and since there is no independent nuclear power oversight that would approve this, there is no responsible expert who would take responsibility for this nuclear energy investment, Paks II., so you have now done what seems to have been done to remove the Atomic Energy Agency from the government's control, and in fact a Deputy State Secretary or State Secretary has been appointed to lead it, without any nuclear industry experience, who now has all the authority to beat Paks II. authorisation. This proposal is about this and nothing else, it is about the fact that you promised President Orbán Putin that Paks II would be there, even if it is not safe, even if it does not comply with Hungarian national interests and you fulfil this order. The situation is different by declaring Esztergom and Baja county-righted cities. Of course, I could make fun of the fact that it wasn't important for you for 12 years, while Esztergom, for example, had a signal from Esztergom years ago, then the Parliament rejected it, because there was a limit of soul that Esztergom couldn't reach. But there is no reason in itself to oppose this part of the proposal. Of course, we also understand that Baja has become important, but this has already been mentioned by MEP Dezső Believing, because the opposition candidate raised the issue of the independent Bács County. Now you have something to say in the campaign, and now you can say that you're making a county town out of Baja. I just have to say, it's not enough in itself. We would like to see what kind of development aid the government is giving for these cities to otherwise perform their county-righted urban functions, and I would add not only these cities, but also other county-righted cities. Because it's nice that Esztergom will be a county-righted city, only then would it be necessary to implement the improvements that Fidesz has been promising there for 20 years, such as flood protection developments, but this would mean that even Tatabánya should be given the same resources that are necessary for its operation. I could tell you more. Cities with county rights, as well as other municipalities, must be given back the resources that you have taken and that are necessary for their good functioning. [[11.30]] Finally, I would like to draw attention to two more little things. I would like to point out that we do not agree with the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, which again protects your infinitely corrupt public procurement system, and we do not agree with the fact that the institution itself, which is called the Theatre and Film Art Foundation, receives a property. Again, it means that something with educational goals will be outsourced to your foundation world. And since I know, or at least I suspect, that you are going to argue with me most about church affairs, because you want to make church support a campaign topic, you have introduced this proposal, and that is why, in this salad law, you did not consider it important to agree on this proposal in substance with anyone, you are now making a bill on which you can argue so that you can say what the Secretary of State and Congressman Nacsa have already said and will say it 30 times. I would like to point out that you are simply using church affairs for political purposes, viewing it as a campaign theme, trying to frighten religious people, how bad it will be for them if the opposition coalition wins, and how they will limit their religious practice. It's just a lie. And the policy that you are taking in this matter, as a conclusion, I would like to quote the thoughts of Ferenc Deák, much more beautifully said than I could say: "I will do my speech by saying that I wish to avoid all the sexes of religious wars to the possibility. If the religious war comes from fanaticism and is debated with fanaticism, it is harmful, dangerous. But such a religious war, because it is not only by means of weapons that war can be waged, but also by those who carry it with feathers and conference rooms, is a religious war that is carried out without faith, without religious zeal, for private interests and political purposes, even more dangerous and also hateful. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2022-02-22-40	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2022-02-22-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Before I begin my speech on the bill, allow me to respond briefly to Mr Balczó, Mr Vice-President,'s signal. I very much hope that this was not the last Parliament's speech, and, as I have seen, there will still be some kind of rejoinder today, but I also hope that a few years have been given so that we could discuss and speak together in Parliament, we have often agreed, we have often argued with each other, for example, in the assessment of nuclear power we will never agree, and I would like to thank you for your many, many years of work in the National Assembly on behalf of the nation. I believe that, regardless of political sides, there can be no doubt, or everyone agrees that Mr Balczó has always raised the authority of Parliament with his attitude, his habitus, his preparation, his many years of work. So thank you very much for your work. [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and the independent.]] Turning to this true salad law, allow me first of all to respond to some of the thoughts expressed in the debate, and I would like to start here with Congressman Nacsa. Congressman Nacsa, allow me to make so many signs that you still have a great deal to fight to grow up to be able to do the work of your Members in accordance with the dignity of Parliament, because here, in recent years, from a beginner, young Member of Parliament, there are so many lies and lonzunges that we have heard from you, I think we have not experienced. Referring to two things that he has abused the opposition: here he is accusing us of anti-religiousness, anti-religiousness and of positions on migration that have been put on us. Dear Congressman Nacha, On January 28, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made an interesting statement on Kossuth Radio. He said that I quote Prime Minister Viktor Orbán: we do not want to be an immigrant country. I'd rather cut off my hand than write a sentence like that. So it is impossible to replace the missing Hungarians with foreign adults. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said this on 28 January. It is a strong enough statement from the Prime Minister to cut off his hand to write down such a sentence, in view of the fact that in 2009 the Fidesz election programme still available to date contains the following ideas. They will also hear a quote, 2009, Fidesz:, Fidesz considers it a priority for Hungary to pursue an active migration policy within the framework of the future common European immigration policy, with concrete ideas and strong goals. We support, depending on Hungary's labour needs, the long-term employment and establishment of migrants for whom integration into Hungarian society can be successfully facilitated. So Viktor Orbán wrote a sentence on which he said he would cut off his hand if he ever wrote it down. I would also like to tell Prime Minister that he will not cut off his hand, but he will take responsibility for the many lies he has told, and he will take responsibility, and you will take responsibility for the decision that has been made against the many times shameful and against the interests of the Hungarian nation, which we have seen over the past 12 years. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I think that, together with the fact that Viktor Orbán obviously wants to forget such thoughts, the Internet does not forget, and everyone can check that these statements have not only been made, but we can also see that you have implemented this policy. We can clearly see that with Rogán's corrupt settlement bonds, you have allowed 20,000 people into the country without effective control, including suspects of terrorism. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] So you have implemented this Orbán plan, so we can say what Viktor Orbán proudly described in 2009, and besides the security risks they posed for Hungary and the European Union, how many security risks they opened up, they also caused the country several tens of billions of HUF in economic losses. So who can be criticised on this subject, honourable Member Nacsa, the fake national governments of Viktor Orbán and Fidesz-KDNP. Even one thought, partly responding to Mr Secretary of State regarding the renovation of the churches and here again referring to the issue of migration: I would like to give an example of a village in Baranya near Pécs to illustrate both cases. Dear Secretary of State, Martonfa is a small village in Baranya in the immediate vicinity of Pécs. The church has been in a dangerous state for many years. Why didn't you do anything to renovate the Catholic Church in Martonfa? Why didn't they do anything to make sure Martonfa believers didn't have to go to Mass on Pécs Bridge? Why haven't they done anything in a decade, in 12 years, to prevent the Martonfa temple from being in a life-threatening state? So you're accusing us, and on the other hand, you didn't do the tasks you were supposed to do. [[Miklós Soltész: Funny!]] It was the same Martonfa settlement where in 2015 you wanted to build a temporary reception centre on the basis of a dictatorship, and when we said that this was not acceptable, and that not only Martonfa, but Pécsvárad, the population of Pécs also protested, you accused us, the opposition, how heartless we were, that we would not allow a reception centre to be built in Martonfa. I can tell you that then the protests of locals, local government leaders, Pécs and opposition politicians only stopped Viktor Orbán's plan to set up a reception camp in the summer of 2015. After that, I became a Member of Parliament from 2018, and for several years I was able to achieve, through written questions and debates, that this regulation, this regulation on the construction of the reception camp in Martonfa, was finally withdrawn. With these few quotes, I can confirm that you are lying on these issues, that migration is considered a campaign theme, but you are exactly what you are accusing the opposition of. I can tell you that there are two of us here with Mr Arató in the Council, who have created a joint agenda for the opposition, that there is a clear public position of the opposition on this issue: we will protect European borders, we will stop illegal migration, and we will keep immigration policy in national jurisdiction against what you have otherwise done in the last 12 years. And then, turning to this law, I think, but I do not want to repeat it here, fellow Members, in the short timeframe available, that this salad law virtually symbolizes your 12-year legislation, but especially the legislation of the past four years, the slowly ending parliamentary term. Well, there's everything here that's not related to the title anyway. Let's start with what's positive, in the case of Baja and Esztergom cities, giving a county-righted city title. Yes, I agree with Mr Secretary of State that these cities are now in an unworthy administrative position or classification. But whose responsibility is that, Mr. Secretary of State? Viktor Orbán has been ruling for 12 years. Have you just remembered to settle this unworthy situation? And by the way, it's a salad law. I believe that it is in itself unworthy, honourable Secretary of State, that in a salad law a county-righted city classification is granted to two beautiful Hungarian cities with a huge tradition. Seriously, didn't they have the energy to devote their own laws to this one city? [[11.40]] I believe that this law should not have been submitted now, but should have been submitted years ago, and that a separate law should have been dedicated to the promotion and reclassification of Esztergom and Baja into a county-righted city. You didn't fit in there, did you? Are you short-staffed? Or, I don't know, the codification department didn't do it, and you had to put it in a salad law? I think it is unworthy in itself, mocking the two cities, that you thus hid it in a salad law, and at the end of the parliamentary term, in the debate of such a salad law, by the way, quickly, so in the heat of the election campaign, you made this decision. However, I very much agree with Mr Arató that the really worthy measure would have been, and again not in 2022, in the middle of the election campaign, if in recent years the funds had not been taken away from the municipalities, but supported the municipalities and finally provided all the support, all the central resources necessary to ensure that these cities could provide the most important public services in the right capacity for the people living there. That's not what you did. By the way, you have constantly reduced the leeway of the municipalities from one cycle to the next; you have withdrawn the powers; you have also withdrawn the funding; and you have proved a thousand times that you do not believe in the local government, you are enemies of the local government. I can therefore say to everyone who cares about local public services, that it is important to have healthy drinking water, local transport, public lighting, kindergarten care, that it frees the country from the Fidesz-KDNP government, which is able to attack municipalities and cities only with austerity, and on 3 April it is important to vote for the opposition alliance to finally start this change and to give resources to cities to ensure these important public services. I would now like to turn to the perhaps most serious parts of this salad law, which you have already mentioned here, Mr Arató, that it is here in the law on the financing of churches, the law on the life of faith, that is despicable! a very harsh law amendment is being introduced, which affects not only the nuclear law by extending the powers of the office which is now outsourced by the National Atomic Energy Office, placed under Fidesz political control, but also by launching a specific attack on Pécs and Baranya County by specifically naming all the expectations of the current nuclear cemetery project from the current government. So in particular, what is being introduced in this salad law is not less important than another harsh change in the nuclear law, which again favors the Russians at Paks II. project-related. The outsourcing of the National Atomic Energy Office is in practice being deepened, and there is indeed a very harsh intervention in the authorisation process of the nuclear cemetery. Well, let's see what this very rude procedure is. Now an absolutely amazing amendment to the nuclear law is being introduced that the OAH leader, appointed by Viktor Orbán in this way for nine years, can decide which parts of the documentation are sufficient to submit in English in the process of authorising a nuclear power plant. So, obviously, it is no longer expected in Hungarian for the Russians to facilitate this moaning and otherwise dead-end project to translate parts of the authorisation documentation of the new nuclear power plant into Hungarian. So, in your opinion, in our national language, you do not need to translate the authorisation documentation for the construction of a nuclear power plant. And all of this is being presented in a salad law that includes things related to church and faith life in its own title. This is quite amazing, Mr. Secretary of State. Yes, you are the State Secretary for National Minorities and Church Affairs, but have you just been promoted to the State Secretary for Nuclear Safety? Mr. Secretary, I don't want to be personal, I don't usually do it in Parliament, but how competent are you about nuclear safety? Have you ever heard of nuclear law? You've heard of Paks II. on the issue of the issue of earthquake safety, which is a clear problem of international concern that is officially triggered by authorisation? Have you heard about and how you understand that your ministers are already having a political debate on the issue of nuclear safety? Foge you are for the Hungarian people because I am asking the question, but do you have to answer the Hungarian people by giving competent answers to questions about nuclear safety, because you are introducing this particular salad law, which applies to this? And indeed, you have referred to this, Mr Arató, and unfortunately everyone can see how reliable Russia and President Putin are partners and even how they ignore international conventions and what they have done with their aggressive policy. And you, through Vladimir Putin, can say that you have given this country to Russia, or Rosatom's gigantic Russian state company, without a tender, based on lies, based on the gigantic Paks II. project. That was in 2014. Without a special warning, Viktor Orbán went to Moscow, they discussed something with Vladimir Putin, then came home with practically a nuclear power plant and its commitment, with thousands of billions of extremely negative Russian loans. Compared to this, the years pass, and it is clear that Paks II is already six years behind the initial deadlines. Authorisation. And you are silent about it; you are silent about who is responsible. But we are well aware that the Russians are simply unable to produce the appropriate quality design documentation in terms of the content and structure of European and Hungarian standards, but you do not stand up to the public, you do not give up that contract. Viktor Orbán was in Moscow recently. Here, he could have done one thing after a series of serious mistakes: he said that Russia did not perform, that Russia was not able to prepare a plan documentation of the right quality, so he cancels the contract and enforces the penalty claim of Hungarian people against Russia, Roszatom. He didn't do that. Compared to this, after a secret five-hour trial, Viktor Orbán was able to lie to the Hungarian and international public that he was brilliantly or I don't know how Paks II made progress. Project 3. Well, this was the manyth moment that we could only experience in connection with the project, how Viktor Orbán betrays Hungarian national interests, and in what way he practically became a member and lobbyist of Rosatom. But the fact that the laws with which the Russians were bended, barred and twisted the law were introduced to the Hungarian Parliament in a series is quite amazing. And what I can tell you is that, unfortunately, the time for my first speech is running out, that if it can come up in your government and we can hear the way that Minister János Süli and Minister Palkovic are tense about the construction of the nuclear power plant here, that in any context of the issue of nuclear safety, you want to make a political decision, and you really have reorganized the National Atomic Energy Office to take political control over the issue of nuclear safety in connection with the authorisation of a nuclear power plant, I cannot say less than that of treason, honourable Members. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-02-22-42	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. Dear Parliament, The first independent Member who has applied may speak, so I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2022-02-22-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin by expressing my view that what Russia is doing in Eastern Ukraine is unacceptable. Hungary cannot be a serious partner of a country that breaks into another country for annexation purposes and recognizes a state that the international community will never recognise. Hungary, I very much hope, will have no role in this war; as a NATO country, we do not have such obligations. And I very much hope that the Hungarian government will stay away from any activity that would send any son of our country to this war. This package of laws, titled CXXIV of 1997 on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches. I called it the law package of fear. Fidesz is afraid of losing power, and that is why he brought into the House in the last days of the four-year cycle a package of laws that clearly shows that he intends to concrete certain processes, certain interests and certain contracts for the period after 4 April. It is very interesting that this is the title of this package of laws, and this proposal begins with the amendment of the law on mining, the amendment of the law on corporation tax, and then comes the bill on nuclear energy, and as a fourth, this bill on the material conditions for certain activities of faith and public interest. Then there are 15 other laws that this proposal intends to amend, in total, in paragraph 53. Of the 19 laws, 12 laws have been created in the last 12 years by the Fidesz majority parliament and 3 in the last two years. It also shows that Fidesz legislation is virtually unthinkable, given the need to constantly amend legislation. There are no impact assessments and there are no analyses to determine or calculate the long-term effects of legislation. [[11.50]] Besides, I must say that I have a problem with the title of the basic law, which is the amendment of this certain Act of 1997 on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches, not only with the current one, but with the 1997 one, because a real Democrat is repulsed by the wording of such a sentence. Churches must operate and operate independently of the state. How can a state law be drafted as if the material conditions of the basic functioning of the churches should be guaranteed by the State and be operated by the State? The Catholic Church for 1900 years, the Reformed Church for more than 500 years and the other recognized churches for hundreds of years in the system of their universal church provide material conditions for the life of faith and their public activities. At the most, a state can help if the interests of its citizens so wish, but if, in the state law, the material conditions for the basic functioning of the churches are created by the state, it means that the state and the church are not in fact separated in our country. Moreover, 1997 is the basic law which is being amended by the present, i.e. during socialist governments, no political leader thought that the church and the state would operate independently in our country. In Hungary, it is a fact that the churches have become one of the tools of money laundering, as public funding has increased tremendously. The money given is not to be accounted for, the Court of Auditors has no control, and everything can be printed and never discovered. Only records on the use of public funds may be considered, while the person of the liquidator is covered. Moreover, this proposal makes it even more difficult to control the use of these funds because it says that it is granted by the State at 10/B. Paragraph 8 (a) and (d) shall not apply the general government rules, i.e. no one will ever know how the funds given to churches have been used in various titles. I would like to give an example of this bill:. The church is owned by the church, which serves for public purposes and other properties, the values of religious and cultural heritage, the preservation, renovation, enhancement of monuments and artistic works, and also the archives, library and museums, which are provided for in the Act on the Central Budget and which is similar to that of the state. So the churches have their own income, and they also get 1 percent of the people who donate it, and the state gives that money to the churches once again, so there is another source for the churches to maintain it. State institutions have no other source of maintenance but the State. How, then, could the church get the same amount as the state institution to maintain its infrastructure when, besides its own source, the churches are already receiving special subsidies for its entire institutional system? The institution of higher education of the church with the agreement is entitled to at least the same support as the state institutions with similar tasks after the public service of higher education. So, the churches in Hungary maintain higher education institutions without actually having a source? Then what's it to you? More than 90 percent of the recognized churches in Hungary have a universal organizational system, the management of which is managed with universal, huge donations, from which they provide all departments. It is unthinkable in their organization to set up a university, for example, without money to run it. And if there is, and even the Hungarian state gives them as much money as the state universities, then the ecclesiastical universities have more resources than the maintenance of state universities. There is, of course, a reason for additional support, because a state, if any organisation participates in a public task, does itself give its support, but it is not possible for a young person studying in a Hungarian state university to have much less money to create the quality of education than a church. Make me think about it. Then, when church universities demonstrate that, unfortunately, they do not receive the amount of money from their organizational system to maintain the universities they set up and the quality education, that they need to be educated at the level of the state, why not give the difference to the state, because it is in the interest of the citizens of the state. But in fact, in order to achieve a more disadvantaged situation for a young person with public education than in a church, this is really unacceptable. The whole system of operation and financing is, by the way, according to the laws of the churches over the past 12 years, as if the state were asking churches to operate institutions and not the churches to do so on their own initiative and mission. This means that in Hungary the state and the church are fully interlinked, in no way separable from each other organisationally or in financing, which expressly violates the Fundamental Law and violates every aspect of the universal mission of the churches. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The public task-financing contract is a six-year relationship between the Minister of Education and the established church with which the agreement is concluded, i.e. one and a half cycles of contractual intervals..., which is included in this proposal. What does that tell us? The fact that the churches are afraid that there will be no money to finance the tasks imposed on them by the Fidesz government in the event of a change of government. I bet that, until the elections, the six-year relationship with all the churches, as set out in this proposal, will be resumed, and the next governments will be forced to do so if the budget does not have enough money, because there are countless other tasks that should be carried out, these resources will still be available, and, as I have just said, we will not be able to verify what they are spending on. The next important issue in this proposal is the Tao Law 22/E. The creation of § 5 and the provision of this section, when the legislation mentions when no tax relief is available, was the condition that companies in difficulty should not benefit from tax relief. But what happens now? The situation is that the period of the coronal virus epidemic will be removed from this circle, i.e. organisations who are already in a difficult situation, are already in liquidation, forced cancellation or winding up if the situation is difficult between 1 January 2020 and 31 December 2021. This is a general provision specifically aimed at punching companies in the face that have managed fairly. During the coronal virus epidemic, very many companies have increased their income and did not decrease. We can see exactly what sectors have benefited greatly from this epidemic, on the revenue side of the various forced extra expenditures. However, many companies have lost their jobs, not because of the epidemic, but simply because of irresponsible farming. Consider the advantage of irresponsible farming companies compared to fair and careful farming companies when they can benefit from tax relief. I do not understand why this was so generally defined. And then comes the question of nuclear law. The main element of this is that the new Registrar, the new Director-General, can make regulations on another eight issues himself. For example, in point 11, special vocational training, further training of workers, the scope of nuclear activities, or the registration, control, reporting and various reporting obligations, site designation and official tasks related to nuclear materials, and for example the registration, control and reporting of radioactive materials. Please, these are fundamental topics and factors in nuclear activity that cannot be regulated in a simple Director-General's Regulation. These are general, fundamental provisions that require a level of law, as it affects all citizens of our country if these conditions are not properly regulated. Not to mention that the truly amazing legal situation arises that the Director-General has the legislative instruments that he has the task of controlling. So he's gonna control it, and he's gonna control himself. [[12.00]] Please, this is a huge risk that a government, a parliament, cannot take on itself, cannot have a Director-General with regard to nuclear activities, on such fundamental issues, a discretionary authority. Just think about it for a second. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I believe that most Members of Parliament have no idea what nuclear activity is and what risks it carries. Amazing! Even if a simple line of records is misworded, it can cause tragedies and loosely give such important questions to a piece of director general. The next topic is Baja and Esztergom, a city with county rights. Thank God, finally, two very serious historical cities, but it's unacceptable that in a salad law a line of an annex changes. So it is not in the legislative proposal that Parliament makes Baja and Esztergom a county-righted city, no, it says that a line of annex No 1 is changing. Do you understand? ! So these two cities are humiliated by the fact that their names are not mentioned in the proposal, but by changing the line of an annex. Well, what an unworthy thing to do. Not to mention that we know exactly that it was introduced in a salad law because they know that opposition representatives will not vote for this law because of unacceptable others, and they will be able to say for years in this House that the opposition did not want Esztergom and Baja county-righted city. Of course we do. But do you treat these two cities so unfairly that you're included in an annex? Do you know how it was supposed to be? It's a separate law, and when we vote for it, there's the mayor of Esztergom and Baja sitting in that box, and when we vote, we stand up and applaud them, because that's elegance, please. But as Balzac said, man can gain wealth, but elegance is born with him. Dear Fidesz, You don't have elegance. For the past four years, you have been so primitive, so proletarian about things of high order, high purpose, and what you've been doing in this House over the past few years is amazing. If I were the people of Esztergom and Baja, I would ask myself that as a city with county rights, nothing else [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Like a line to be in an annex. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-02-22-44	I salute my fellow Members. I now give the floor to the national minority advocate, Varga Simeon, who first presents the first sentences of his speech in Bulgarian nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2022-02-22-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson invited by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee is CXXIV of 1997 on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of churches. T/18205 on the amendment of law and other laws At its meeting held on 21 February 2022, it discussed bill No. The bill before us includes, among other things, the 1997 CXXIV on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of churches. the amendment of the law to which my comment relates. Some of the legislative proposals concerned are legal and text-focusing, but it also lays down rules on church additional support for the provision of public service tasks, in addition to the application of the established principles. In addition, the amendment of the law aims at bringing further target subsidies beyond the target support of the church to the legal level. The proposal also points out that the term "confessional education" should be changed to "confessional education." I can fully agree with that myself, because faith cannot, in my view, be taught only its doctrines. As a new rule, it appears in the bill that it lays down general and applicable rules for the public tasks and institutions of religious communities in higher education. The bill does not exclude that the public task of higher education is performed directly by the particular religious community, but states that sectoral rules should also be taken into account in such cases. The provisions lay down the rules for the long-term, quality and performance financing of public higher education tasks in the established churches which have concluded the agreement, as well as for the scope of public tasks to be covered by the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. by law. According to the bill, acquired rights are not violated, which also serves as a guarantee. The amendment of the Act addresses the concept of a public service financing contract between the Minister for Education and the established church with which the agreement is concluded, sets out its content and its detailed rules and the rules governing the modification of public service financing contracts. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The faith and existence of people of nationalities living in Hungary was not determined by the law, but by the will from within not to cut their roots, even if it had put heavy burdens on their shoulders, preserved their religion and nationality consciousness, and therefore did not disappear into the sinking of the current geopolitics. The idea forged by the power of faith can only see its future and, if necessary, give strength and endurance. Our celebrations and traditions have always been united with the religious communities, so it is an undisputed fact that the survival of nationalities depends to a great extent on their preservation of their faith and their connection to the churches. For this reason, every step and will that is important and decisive for us is to help the churches provide public service and guarantees in the fields of education, education and, where appropriate, higher education, because in the experience of ethnic cultural and educational autonomy, and in the transfer of traditions, churches, religious denominations and faith have always been and will be of paramount importance. Churches play an important role in the preservation of national identity and are linked to this in shaping the whole society's approach. Therefore, nationalities in Hungary are supportive of all regulations where churches receive guarantees and additional space in the field of education of the future generation. Here I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State and his colleagues for their support for all initiatives and requests by nationalities to preserve churches and their churches. We hope that this will continue in the future. In view of all of this, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is the CXXIV of 1997 on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of churches. T/18205 on the amendment of law and other laws Recommends to Parliament for adoption of bill No. Благодаря завашето внимание. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-02-22-46	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, the representative of Jobbik, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2022-02-22-47	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Frankly, I regret that, because of my forced absence from voting, I referred to the possibility that it might be my last speech. I regret for two reasons: because I couldn't keep it, and the other is that I gave Lóránt Keresztes the opportunity to give an appreciation of myself that I thank, but it is far more positive than reality; it is not false modesty, it is self-esteem. I'd like to answer to Nacha Lawrence. Your formula is very simple: a common list of oppositions has been established. It might have come to its own decision, but your amendment to the electoral law forced us to do so. From then on, the formula is clear: the list is on the left, and the list is not even the past of Ferenc Gyurcsány. And let me specifically answer Lőrinc Nacsa what the potential of a not-the-largest party is, he said, based on my experience. Between 1998 and 2002, I saw how the Little Farmer Party could live with being the second strongest party. He referred to my EP representativeship: I saw how the Greens, who are the fourth strongest party, were able to exploit this position with almost extortion. [[12.10]] So to say that DK, Ferenc Gyurcsány decides everything anyway, Jobbik has no say in it, because it is always the most important word, it is not so. If there is a change of opposition government, the LMP may be decisive, because they will need it for a simple majority. One more example: Jobbik's only opinion finally prevaild with the candidate for head of state. But what I don't understand is that they spend so much time dealing with what this new partnership will be like if it wins, that I have to say [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To encourage you not to give up, there's a chance you'll remain on the government. Thank you.
u2022-02-22-48	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-02-22-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I say my original speech, allow me to respond briefly to what has been said so far. I must tell you that, when making this proposal, and ever since, I consider it important that Baja's cause should not be a party political issue and that it should not be a campaign issue. I am sorry that there were left-wing representatives, left-wing speakers who obviously made the matter of Baja's county-righted town a campaign topic here in the House. But if you've mentioned what the left-wingers are trying to make people think they're there on the spot, then allow me to list a few facts. Over the past four years, Baja has received more than HUF 17 billion in development resources. Also in the last four years, more than HUF 19 billion of development resources have arrived in the region, in the remaining 24 settlements of the constituency. The local economy has received more than HUF 10 billion in support of job creation and economic recovery. If you count this, ladies and gentlemen, this is more than HUF 46 billion of development resources. It may be said that it is not enough to say that it should have been spent on something else, but what my fellow Members have said is that Baja has avoided developments in recent years, it is simply not true, it is an underestimation of the people with whom they have been mayors, businesses or ordinary people in recent years, we have worked together to make it better to live in Bácska. I can assure you that we will continue to work in the years to come to ensure that the work of those living there is honoured and that it is indeed better to live in Baja and its region. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, once again. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As an elected parliamentary representative of Baja and its region, I am now speaking to the part of the bill in which we are initiating Baja to be a county-righted city again. Dear House, During the recent history of our country, he suffered two changes that resulted in a major transformation of the historical Hungarian administration. One was the Trianon peace dictatorship, which was the radical mutilation of Hungary's territory and thus its administrative system, and the other was the restructuring carried out in 1950 by the communist state power, which was now built between the new state borders. In this context, 19 of the 25 historical counties were created, which in several cases resulted in the relocation of the county seat and the loss of the status of the former county seat. That's what Baja did during the communist county settlement. In 1950, he lost his public-law status as the seat of the former Bács-Bodrog County. However, violence cannot be committed in life, despite the disenfranchisation of the law, for nearly 120,000 people living in the city and its region, it remains of central importance and still has to this day. Dear Parliament, The city of waters is already XIII. At the beginning of the 20th century it was an important river crossing and commercial centre, and it was only confirmed in hundreds of years of history between the Hungarian cities along the Danube, so much so that even the Habsburgs acknowledged its central role in the region, and this year 326 years ago it was bestowed on it a city title. According to the law on the local governments of Hungary, the municipal government of the county-righted city also provides public services covering all or a large part of the county beyond its own territory; economic, administrative and cultural centres which are the pillars of the strong Hungary. Baja is indisputably such a settlement. Baja is the second largest city in Bács-Kiskun county, and is the largest village near the southern border of Hungary in a radius of nearly 100 kilometers. It is one of the largest public and commercial ports in the country, and its role as a regional transport hub is undisputed. It provides services to people living in the county with two higher education institutions, several secondary schools, courts, government offices, regional water management and hospitals. The settlement is also of particular importance for the territorial administration. However, Baja is not only a Hungarian but also a multi-ethnic cultural and gastronomic centre. Dear Parliament, Thanks to the diligence of the Bajas, the city is still the natural center of its region. On the basis of its role in regional and economic and cultural life, it is essential that it regains its county-righted status. The Parliament will repay old debts by re-establishing this status for Baja. On behalf of the people of Baja and the people in the region, I would like to ask you to support with your votes that Baja may once again be a county-righted city. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from government parties, Jobbik and ethnic advocates.]]
u2022-02-22-50	Thank you. I now give the floor to László László Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2022-02-22-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Just a very quick reaction to Mr Róbert Zsigó's speech. This is where I heard left-wing representatives speak about Baja and Esztergom's city status, and I heard that they all supported it. I am not a left-wing representative, I am the leader of the LMP, the Green Party of Hungary [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] And I also supported the appointment of Baja as a county-righted city. Congressman, since 1998, you've been a Member of Parliament in the region, now it's 2022, how many times you've tried a motion [[Robert Zsigó: Several times, Congressman!]] Baja gets the status of a county-righted city? And why was an annex to a salad law mentioned in this cycle? So there was no capacity, perhaps, Congressman, to present this proposal to Parliament in the form of an independent bill in time, thus giving its dignity to this truly important matter? I think that would have been the right thing to do. But also, I have heard that all opposition representatives, so representatives of Christian Social Jobbik [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Representative of left-wing parties and representative of the Green Party [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you grinning about? Give me the currency money and then grin.]] supported the granting of the status of cities with county rights in Baja and Esztergom. However, these statements, in addition to symbolic matters, were also interesting in substance, honourable Member. If I remember correctly, you were also the mayor of Baja in a cycle, and since 98 you have been a Member of Parliament, I do not know if the problems with water utilities, problems with local roads, problems with the sidewalks, everything else, do you think the government has done even more since 2010 when it comes to providing the necessary resources for Baja? Do you agree, Congressman, with all the fidesz decisions that have reduced the task of the municipality, in exchange for the resources of the municipalities? Do you agree that the government is withdrawing municipal revenues, even if the epidemic management imposes specific difficult tasks on it? I did not hear Mr.Orbán's speech about protesting here, going out to the pulpit and protesting against the brutal austerity packages of the Government of the Fidesz Government, the Government of Viktor Orbán, affecting local governments. I didn't hear you, Congressman. [[12.20]] I imagine it is the task of a Member of Parliament that, even if a decision is taken to harm his region, even if it is submitted by his government, he stands up and says that he does not support it, and fights for the support of as many of his fellow political groups as possible and prevents local government restrictions. I feel that you have failed to do so, honourable Member. Even so, even if it comes as an annex to the Annex, hidden in the last legislative debate of the cycle, in a salad law, I think it is better later than never. To add, we would have gotten away with this a long time ago. Going back to this salad law and turning back to the subject that I couldn't go through in the absence of time, here we see the brutal amendment of the nuclear law and another legislation hidden in a salad law, again in the last legislative debate in this parliamentary term, which could have huge consequences for nuclear safety. We know that, and I have just said this in my speech, that there are very serious problems with the Russian Paks II submitted by Rosatom. in relation to design documentation. By the way, in such a strangely honest moment, even János Süli has not wanted to be personal for two years, and János Süli is always willing to answer our questions, even if we do not agree on this issue, but he sincerely said at a Commission hearing two years ago that he does not really know when the design documentation will be submitted, and the Russians are studying the Hungarian technical environment. Now we can see and know, and who is now leaking to the press, that this particular documentation submitted by the Russians is inadequate, so in its content, structure and quality, it is unfit to allow a nuclear power plant. In this process, the licensing authority, the National Atomic Energy Agency, decided on the outsourcing of the Fidesz-KDNP government. So, as an independent office, the National Atomic Energy Office can no longer function, because for nine years, Viktor Orbán intended to appoint an ex-Deputy State Secretary to regulate these issues in a regulation itself. Ladies and gentlemen, I have called on the Secretary of State, and he is not yet involved in the debate, that the issue of nuclear safety is a matter which must be brought in in such a salad law on the one hand, and a politically appointed principle on the other, must have power over the next nine years? This is totally unacceptable, and it is also unworthy of decisions such as ensuring Baja and Esztergom's county-righted urban status. But there are also questions here, ladies and gentlemen, and it is important to talk about this at the Parliament's meeting that, indeed, this particular Paks II site has received a site permit, despite the fact that an active break zone, an active breakline, is situated in the bottom. Here, the Austrian environmental authority also officially expressed very serious concerns about the fact that a nuclear power plant is designed over an active breaking zone. The Hungarian state-owned Paks II. Zrt. a very detailed geological study was carried out for his order years ago, which found that, indeed, there were earthquakes here within the legal framework, or they found traces of an earthquake that could be suitable for terrestrial displacement. The National Atomic Energy Office does not even respond to the fact that this geological study was taken into account at all, or a smaller excerpt was taken into account when the site permit was issued. However, I would add that the site permit is due to expire recently, and it can be considered that the government's recognition is that it will not be allowed to extend this certain site permit recently, because the main permit has not been issued. Ladies and gentlemen, This is completely unacceptable in a case where we know that fifty of the five hundred smaller or larger problems are still unanswered by Paks II. when it turns out that the government's responsible politicians are lying to the public because they promised permission for the new nuclear power plant at the beginning of the year and then admit that they have not yet submitted certain applications. Or could it be accepted that, without informing the Hungarian people, decisions on authorisation should be taken in an office over which the Hungarian government, the current Hungarian government, can no longer exercise control? I think that this is totally unacceptable, and we will object to any legislation of this nature with all our parts. As soon as we have the right authority, we will put the issue of nuclear safety and such authority within a framework that is regulated, and it is absolutely clear that there is only one priority in these matters, and this is in the interests of nuclear safety and the interests of the Hungarian people. But what we can say at the same time is that this is all wrong in all aspects of Paks II. The project must be stopped. I can tell you that there is full agreement between the current opposition parties that we will review this project after the change of government. I should also refer to another case, and I should note here that the issue of the nuclear cemetery, concerning the Bodai Claystone Formation and which received greater momentum in 2013, has been subject to major amendments to this salad law. The case of this nuclear cemetery concerns the city of Pécs, the county of Baranya, but in the closest sense it concerns the constituencys Baranya 2 and Baranya 4, so the research area specifically concerns these two constituencies. The elected representative of Baranya 2nd Constituencies Péter Hoppál in the colours of Fidesz, I see a cool place here for Congressman Hoppál, in the debate of the law on the issue of his constituency, there is no Hoppál Péter. But I can also tell you that Congressman Csaba Nagy, who is a regent member of the 4th constituency of Baranya, is not present in such a legislative debate, which is directly related to the fate of his constituency. What's going on here? We know that no place in the world has been able to solve the permanent safe disposal of high-activity radioactive waste and spent fuel. This is a huge challenge everywhere, nowhere in the world, in Europe or in Hungary there is no solution to this. We know that these spent fuel are currently in a temporary storage facility in Paks, but every country that uses nuclear energy must have a national programme for the management of nuclear waste. It is often lied, especially by Fidesz MEPs from Baranya, but also by the way, national politicians from Fidesz, that no decision has yet been made to build a nuclear cemetery. This is not exactly true, because the National Assembly accepted this particular national programme many years ago, which states that there will be an underground geological storage in Hungary, and that the only research site is the Boda region, the Bodai Claystone Formation. Thus, a concrete decision has been made at Parliament's level to become a nuclear cemetery. According to our calculations for this project, 13-15 billion HUF has already been spent. In 2015, Viktor Orbán made a promise personally at the Town Hall of Pécs. This promise was that without the consent of the Pécs and the people in the Pécs region, such a nuclear cemetery cannot be built. Compared to this, after the Prime Minister made this promise, the nuclear law was immediately amended and it was impossible for the municipalities concerned to have a legal say in this matter. Then a promise was made that a research phase would be completed in 2018, and then there would be a referendum or a procedure for the region to express its opinion. This was also missed, so the Prime Minister lied, or he himself was deceived by those who are taking this matter forward. At a public hearing in Bodan in 2019, the Director-General of the National Atomic Energy Office has since resigned, acknowledged that there are very serious problems, acknowledged that there is a strong protest from the largest city in Transdanubia and that it indicates this to the decision-makers. That was an interesting confession, wasn't it, compared to the Director General of the National Atomic Energy Office, who's the decision maker in a nuclear approval process? We haven't had an answer to that since. In 2019, the National Atomic Energy Office issued a site search permit for this particular nuclear cemetery. For 3 billion forints, new research drills were launched, so despite the Prime Minister's promise, despite the fact that no one asked Pécs and Baranya's population, billions are being reloaded to this dead end project. And here it came in, in this salad law, a certain amendment, according to which the geological system to be taken into account in the technical design of the site of the radioactive waste storage plant for the purpose of the groundwater testing laboratory, the rules of procedure for the approval and approval of the results of the research for the determination of geologic suitability, as well as the definition of the technical and mining safety requirements for the mine installation and operation, will also be put into the hands of a political commissar appointed by Viktor Orbán for nine years. This is completely unacceptable, and you acknowledge with this salad and this chapter of the salad law that Viktor Orbán lied to the Pécs and have no intention of giving the region the opportunity to decide on matters that determine its own fate and future. I can say that, for this one point alone, this law would be unacceptable, but there are a number of other elements that clearly make it impossible for the LMP fraction to vote for. [[12.30]] What I can tell you is that after the change of government, this nuclear cemetery project will be stopped, and we will give the experts the instructions that are expected by the experts, that, according to the social and economic conditions, areas that can be considered as a potential site for the nuclear cemetery in Hungary in technical and geological terms should be re-ranked. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-02-22-52	Thank you. For two minutes, I'm speaking to Nacsa Lőrinc, representative of KDNP. You have the floor.
u2022-02-22-53	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to reject Mr Keresztes' personal remarks not only to me but also to Róbert Zsigó. I object to the fact that Mr Zsigó's work in this regard is to be treated with outrageous words when he has done much more for that region than you will ever do for that region, honourable Member. I reject the tone in which you are constantly personalizing with us, for example, in rural development. You were the first to make a list with those who destroyed the Hungarian countryside. You keep posing on your Facebook page. He is posing with DK politicians who have closed hundreds of wing lines, who have closed hundreds of schools in rural settlements, who have bled out rural self-governments, honourable Member. You're in league with the rural destroyers, and you're in an alliance. You're taking photos of the rural destroyers on your Facebook page every day, and you're asking us to be accounted for, Your Honour. I think it's a huge hypocrisy. I would ask you to stop the personal activities that you are doing in our direction, honourable Member, because what you have listed as what has happened in and around Baja in recent years has never been said, either around Esztergom, around Baja or anywhere in the country, that we have done everything we have done. You can't quote a sentence like that from us. We said that we had a lot of work ahead of us, but we had a lot of results in rural development, maintaining villages, renovating roads, improving quality of life there, renovating schools, renovating church institutions, renovating churches, renovating community spaces. We have behind us the result of the country-building work that you do not have to acknowledge, we do not expect thanks for it, but do not deny the reality that you see in front of your eyes every day, and once you have joined up with the rural destroyers once you have supported the rural destroyers with all your speeches, I would ask you to be a little more modest. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-02-22-54	I will also speak for two minutes to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction.
u2022-02-22-55	Thank you very much. First of all, I suggest that Congressman Nacsa try to stay calm. I think that soon the moment will come when you will be faced with the nation-treasoning policy that has been implemented here, by the way, your government has implemented since 2010, and since 2018, you have been precisely one of the most hard-working aids of the national traitor and anti-rural, rural and rural-destructive policies that Viktor Orbán's pseudo-national government has implemented. I am a country rep, honourable Member. I live in Pécs, the largest city in Transdanubia, at the headquarters of a county which is the most fragmented, 300 settlements in Baranya county. I am well aware of the situation of small settlements as a result of my professional past. As a result of your shameful policy, 15,000 people in my city have gone from coercion. You betrayed Pécs, betrayed Baranya, and, by the way, betrayed the demise of rural areas, and you question me, you try to resent that I am confronting you with this outrageous national betrayal and anti-rural policy. Are you talking about road development, Your Honour? Do you know that there are 17,000 kilometers of public roads in Hungary in the wrong and the wrong category? And do you know that, during your administration, it's getting more and more every year? Do you know, Honourable Member, that you have spent more money on the World Hunting Exhibition than you have spent a whole year to maintain and improve the rural side roads within the Hungarian village programme? Don't wave your head, Your Honour, because that's the case. You spend more on the perversions and hobbies of your prominent politicians than on the lower roads that determine the lives of rural people. You have destroyed rural transport, and you have taken it down to virtually zero on a large number of railway sidelines, citing the epidemiological agenda, you, honourable Member, have reduced the frequency of passenger transport to zero. You have betrayed the rural areas. On 3 April, all those who are interested in developing rural areas, please go and vote for a change of government. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-02-22-56	Thank you. I will also give the floor to independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm for two minutes.
u2022-02-22-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This fierce debate about who caused our country painful and difficult times, I think that the left and the right can't throw anything at each other. In 2004, we arrived at the EU accession with no programme to keep young Hungarians in the country, to go to the West for 3-4 times the opportunity to work, or even to do dishes with graduates. Left-wing governments have done everything in their power to make this situation happen to the Hungarian nation in such a way that those who are not satisfied with the conditions at home, such as the young people living in the small settlement, whose outburst from that environment is hopeless, go abroad. The last four years have been accusing each other of the other's devastating activities, but we have to establish that all those who have not been part of the government that this is your joint activity. The other issue is that I give Lóránt Keresztes the truth that over the past 12 years, there has been so much money spilled on worthless and worthless cicoma investments that could indeed have been devoted to rural development and social development. But the fact is that it was easy for the Fidesz government to do so, because as a boogeyman, it keeps Ference Gyurcsány and his associates against him, who introduced Hungarian society so terribly unprepared for our accession to the EU in 2004. Don't put anything in each other's eyes. A Common Sin [[Gergely Arató: In 2004, she became Prime Minister, dear congresswoman!]] , a common sin is the activity of the left and the right, a common sin since 1990, my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Arató, the sale of the nation, the disregard of the nation, the domination of left-wing rhetoric, and then the fidesz populism, which captured this nation by two camps. Thank you very much.
u2022-02-22-58	I now address Z. Carpathian to Daniel, the representative of Jobbik. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-02-22-59	Mr President, Dear House, Since the proposal contains tax-related clauses on corporate tax and dividend taxation on both sides, I have prepared thoroughly for a moderate right-wing criticism of these. The fact is, what you have done here today under discussion is amazing in the light of the Fidesz Parliament. The Secretary of State for Hatred is not in the room now, he has just gone out, Mr Zsigó, Mr. Secretary of State sat in his seat, but I find it quite amazing, as they try to bring it into every subject, if I am benevolent, then I say that the various doctrines of their opinion bubble, if I have a slightly worse temper, I must say, the products of their Bolshevik lie factories. My fellow Member Nacsa is also world champion in this, it is well known. But I had about the feeling in this debate that we were talking about VAT cuts. I would like to tell you that, today, in front of the Economic Committee, although they did not have a counterclaim for reducing VAT on basic foodstuffs, this whole package has been voted out. So Fidesz voted today to make it more difficult for Hungarian people. Fidesz voted today to make Hungarian people pay more in their purchases and to pay more for their consumer baskets. When Fidesz selectively reduced VAT for one product, the Secretary of State, András Tállai himself, said that, well, how good is the VAT reduction, because it will result in a price reduction. Now listen to an answer to a written question, because I have to hold on to it, if I had hair falling out of it, András Tállai said that there is no point in reducing the VAT because people would not feel anything about it. That's who you are. On the same subject, they can lie down the sky with perfectly opposite signs a few months or a year or two apart. The same thing you said I didn't bring into the general debate, I didn't plan on it, you mentioned it as a migration issue. Well, let's talk about it. You can show me, you can gesticulate my fellow Member Nacha, maybe you don't want me to say my opinion or what I think about it, but we need to teach you that this is a parliament, and at least to imitate democracy, and let us say what we want to say. Wasn't it your boss who demanded a world quota before the UN in 2015 by any chance, my fellow Member? Who demanded the world quota? [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Yes!]] This man was called Viktor Orbán. It wasn't your Secretary of State in 2015 who said here on our parliamentary question that when there were anomalies in the vicinity of the Debrecen refugee shelter, and events that suspected various crimes, didn't you happen to say that there was no migration crisis, and the opposition is alarming you? I was here, my fellow Member. We clearly remember where you came from. We clearly remember the exit from the Trianon memorial, we clearly remember the Liberal International, we clearly remember how our fellow believers were offended in this room and how they were humiliated by their sentences by fidesz representatives. We remember you clearly. [[12.40]] We also know their style, the housekeeper style, the attic sweeps. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Euthanasia!]] [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Euthanasia!]] They brought everything from the previous era with them, and they use all the tools that were used against you in their late youth. That's how young Democrats became old Bolsheviks. (Lőrinc Nacsa: Euthanasia!) And in connection with migration, after your leader demanded a world quota, and after taking the rhetoric against migration and adopting this position, which is the government that gave thousands of rich migrants the hallway of Hungarian citizenship for money. Which government introduced the settlement bond scheme? Which government allowed the Hungarian budget, Hungarian taxpayers, to pay for the settlement policy in the order of ten billion dollars? It was your government. Which government didn't do anything after this all came out? It's your government. And what government, although it seems to be fighting against migration, is in reality deploying tens of thousands of migrant workers from third world and third countries to Hungary? My fellow Member, Nacsa, if you are so proud of this, tell me why their government decree dated 1 September last year, in which the masses of workers from Mongolia, Vietnam and other countries are deployed to Hungary, do so while more than 100,000 of our countrymen are here in Hungary who do not receive any state benefits. Those from the third world will benefit from the Minister of State for Hatred's response to this in his closet, and in the case of Hungarian citizens and unemployed, more than 100,000 people will not be given any assistance with one of the narrowest systems in Europe. This is your world: the Bolshevik lie factory in public TV and various portals. Today, by the way, I have received two more final sentences, where I have once again defeated your lie factory, and they will pay as the military officer. But you know what's sad about that? That these psychics aren't really paying. I have a strong suspicion that they're getting public ads, that these companies could actually get the price of losing press lawsuits in advance. It's just an assumption, an opinion on my part, but we tend to experience it. More than 200 of these lawsuits have been lost to us by Fidesz-related lie factories, teams of yours that are clearly the owners of bread-paying. We don't have lost press cases on our side, because we don't see you as an enemy. Don't smile, my fellow Member. You're our enemy. In a normal country, we should all be serving our country's prosperity, but you want to clean up the whole opposition with a Bolshevik lie factory and erase everyone who thinks differently about the world than you do. It's a typical communist tempo. It's a shame they don't recognize that. The huge problem is that we cannot discuss this proposal, the tax on both sides, the substantive parts of corporate tax and dividend tax, because we cannot discuss it with you. The Secretary of State for Hate stands up, and he's going to use ratings that we've been hearing from him for years. And the saddest thing is, we can't argue about reducing VAT on basic foods. Or with Secretary of State Zsigó, why can't we talk about the fact that the VAT content of children's education articles is an EU record in Hungary? There is no other European country, Mr. Secretary of State, where diapers, baby bottles and strollers are as brutally taxed as we do. What did you think of the demography, by the way, was a very nice fantasy? That's what I'm chasing, and I'm looking for solutions in this direction. But the thing is, you're punishing child rearing, childbearing and childcare. What we see is that on one side, there is a family tax, and it is good that there is, but in the other pocket, you take out a lot more with the 27 percent VAT on food, with the penalty tax on child-rearing articles, by using the discounts only selectively, only for those who earn enough. So what we see is that you are operating a system in which not all Hungarian children are equal in value. And we want that to happen. And we see that you do not engage in a substantive professional debate on these matters. These classifications fly, they bring migration into church affairs, and then they get insulted if we react. I therefore find the atmosphere that surrounded the debate on this bill quite harsh. For the last time, I ask you to try to deal with Hungarian issues that are of national strategic importance. Such would be the VAT on food, child - rearing articles. And as for these bill proposals, I know it's hard for you to get out of the bubble of opinions and ratings, and I'm used to it, Mr. Secretary of State in particular, but I'm asking you not to think that if you're going to use the same tools you used to your opponents when you were young, you'll be right. That's not what makes them right. You could use professional arguments to convince people on the other side of the horseshoe. I am very sorry that no attempt has been made, and I very much hope that on 3 April the voters will draw the conclusions from this. Thank you, by the way, for the fact that over the past four years, we have had a lot of meaningful debates, thank you for allowing me to serve my country in the Hungarian Parliament during this term. I wish everyone to succeed in doing the same in the future. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2022-02-22-60	Thank you. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Miklós Soltész: Yes.]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-02-22-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the one hand, I thank you for the supporting contributions, including those from the opposition on a subject or two, in one or two points. I will try to go over a few questions and answer one or two Members, congresswoman or gentleman. I would like to thank Mr Zoltán Balczó for saying that, because his new partner does not say that there is the same funding in the churches in public education. It's a fact. Only DK and the left, which you are now fond of, do not say that, but the opposite. You might want to discuss this with each other. By the way, this law will also ensure this in higher education, which is exactly what this law brings. Thank you so much for putting me through all this. On church matters, however, you should not be arguing with me, but with DK, the left and, as I have heard, with your former party partner Andrea Varga-Damm or even László Lóránt Keresztes. We don't scare the churches and the rurals, they threaten them all the time. Allow me a few quotes you've produced in recent years, either Ferenc Gyurcsány or the political community you've been working with and having a good time with. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that we would teach them the Scriptures. That's how he put it. [[Dániel Z. Karpat is leaving the Chamber. Lőrinc Nacsa: In the heat of the debate, he's gone!]] They don't really care, but that's what he said. All ecclesiastical privileges must be broken, said Ferenc Gyurcsány. And the party's program also includes the termination of the Vatican contract with the Catholic Church, the abolition of all religious licenses and the payment of religious support to the churches. Otherwise, they would terminate or terminate the contract that was concluded by his predecessor, Gyula Horn, and even his government, as it did. Agnes Vadai has proposed the elimination of confessional secrets. I do not know whether believers or those who still stand for Christianity or the Catholic Church have a say in this effort of Agnes Vadai. Gergely Arató against you, dear congressman, you said why the government gives four times more to students in church schools than to a fellow student in a public school. It's a lie, of course, and it's not, but it went against what you said. István Szépó, a DK representative, said the following about the Jewish people, our fellow Jews and believers: I find it difficult to bear the sight of the Jews in caftans, with their capes, their rituals, and I feel no communion with them, and I don't want to. But you, with this man, with this team, feel a sense of community and association. Congressman Loránt the Crusade, listen to me, because they're all connected to them, they're running into their arms. Then he continues to oppose all forms of religion, and he would not be very able to communicate with those who have a spectacular faith in God. As far as I know, there are believers among you. And now you're going to join a group that says religion is not needed? Will they teach people and churches from the Bible, not the churches? And I could go on with these statements. And another statement by a DK representative from Józsefváros: The Bible is an ancient story book, and yet those who live their lives by the Scriptures are idiots. Who's talking about the churches? You. Your partners speak against the churches, against the believers, wherever they are in the country or anywhere in the world. [[12.50]] It's you, not us, that provokes hatred, but you create hatred, you constantly threaten the churches throughout your opposition period. In spite of all this, I also wanted to thank Mr Balczó for his many decades of work, even when he was in the MIÉP; that was the real age for you; then he had speeches, deeds of merit, and deeds, I believe that this is my opinion, which was indeed honorable. When they started fighting with Jobbik, it was because they joined up for a common will, and then for what reason, for what purpose, for what purpose? But they gave up their principles, and because Jobbik was formed, they turned their backs on it completely, and now they have fallen over and embraced. I understand your frustration in this, and that is why I am sorry that a long political career, if I understand your words correctly, ends here. God bless you. Thank you very much for your work so far, even though we have often been political opponents, but many times in the past we have been able to think on the same terms and to speak on the same terms about questions, immediate questions, or anything that came in. Thank you very much for your work. [[It's a rare applause.]] When MEP Lőrinc Nacsa spoke of values on behalf of KDNP, he also listed the very important decisions of which László Lóránt Keresztes missed one of them, that we did not solve the thousands, so church renovations, the support of churches, the support of communities, the construction of new churches. For someone who, let's just say, has renewed more than 3,000, we may have missed an expensive group leader, but we're gonna fix that. Only when Congressman Nacsa talked about it, you should have opened your ears and listened to what your new partner, who was sitting in his lap and hugging, said Gergely Arató. He said it was a waste, it was a waste, and then he nodded that it was unnecessary. Do you want us to count the one church that, say, occurred to you? It's pathetic. I'm sorry. You want to get together, you'll be in opposition. You guys are long gone if you don't notice, Gyurcsány Company. But still, you're conspiring with these people, and they're calling us to account... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]]
u2022-02-22-62	Secretary of State, if you please. If you were to respond to what was said in the debate on the bill instead of turning a ring, I would thank you. [[Robert Szigó: That's what he's doing!]]
u2022-02-22-63	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the warning, but here in the debate. You didn't preside before, and those words were spoken, and that's what I'm responding to. Thank you very much. I'd like to keep going. Mr Dezső, Member of the Socialist Parliament, I thank you very much for your compassionate contribution, which means that I should carry this salad law. We don't hide it, yeah, salad law. The only thing is that in recent decades, not now, in the 11-12 years, there have been salad laws throughout the past decades, and I dare say that there have been a lot more salad laws during left-wing governance. Elegant? No, but it does provide a solution for a time when it is necessary to bring laws together. It's the content of the law and the law, and that's what's important. I would also like to point out to Dezső Szigély that the Member said that the Socialist Group would like to vote on something of this law, and something not, how good it would have been if it had been separate, because then the positive things that they liked would have been voted in favour. That's true, and it might have some significance. Just think that in December 2021, on the last day of Parliament, you were holding a mathematics lesson outside, in front of Parliament, trying to solve the crossword puzzle of what your own referendum will be about, I say to the left-wing Members, not to the independents. They were out there having fun in front of Parliament, and they could not vote for it because they refused to come into the Parliament, the laws that provide separate social groups with opportunities for income, pensions and other things. Thus, they did not vote in favour of the 13th month pension. Why? Because they were fooling around outside the House. They did not vote for a personal income tax exemption for people under the age of 25. Why? Because they were fooling around outside the House. They didn't vote for a minimum wage increase. Why? Because they were fooling around outside. And what did they do in the process? They had a mathematics lesson, trying to figure out their own referendum question. Well, that's where you are, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, I thank Dezső Believing for his speech, because it was absolutely correct, but unfortunately I had to answer these questions to him, because he raised these questions. I do not see Mr Gergely Arató in the room either, but I will try to answer him, in case this line of thought comes to him or, if necessary, to his fellow parties or allies. First of all, we did not make a political issue out of church leaders. It was Gábor Iványi who has been there during protests for the past decades and has always acted as a church leader in protests. Then Gábor Iványi was drawn into the political game of an internal political game between Péter Róna and Gábor Iványi. You know the whole thing, that they were actually played and abused, because they know very well that the majority of Parliament will not vote for them, but they have started arguing with each other here. As Congressman Balczó said, after all, Jobbik said that they thank you very much, that they do not ask for Gábor Iványi. Have you thought this through? A pastor was drawn into this pipe, believed to be a candidate, and then dragged through with a stroke of a pen as part of a comedy to which the reactions were, in a understandable, incomprehensible way, as follows. András Simor says of the newly recruited candidate Péter Róna: in my opinion, he is a completely immoral figure. Júlia Király, former vice-president of the MNB, former economic policy advisor of Márki-Zay, calls Péter Róna a naughty little bastard. László Békési: Róna is a controversial, unscrupulous man. I'm sorry, you brought this in, you bathed Gábor Iványi, and then you're going to have to account for something that's a lie. I'd like to disprove what Gergely Arató said here. On the one hand, the ECJ judgment, the judgment of the Court of Strasbourg, did not say, nor did it say, that every government has an opportunity to agree with which church on various subsidies, which do not relate to the church's function of faith, but to the performance of its public service. No one told me to settle with Gábor Iványi. Nevertheless, you are, I am sorry, and the Strasbourg court has not even provided for how much we have to pay for three or four years of their funding. And they threw in a number: 6 billion forints. It was completely impossible, completely incoherent calculations. Finally, the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government and the Church of Gábor Iványi agreed in 2.2 billion forints, and they accepted this, and they signed this money. And then Gergely Arató lies that they didn't get it, and that's why it can't work. In the last 11 years, the church has received nearly HUF 23 billion for its various activities, whether social, public education or higher education. What church? A little, a little community. So to say that they didn't get the support, to say that they didn't get the help for their operation or for their public service, that's a huge lie. I'm sorry there's no Gergely Harvesto here. But still, we got used to these, because he was the Secretary of State of Education with Ferenc Gyurcsány, who then withdrew most of the support from all the church supporters, and if the protests had not been successful, they would not have received the support either. When we came to government, we had to pay for what they had taken away, and they did so in the social field and in the area of child protection. Don't ask us to account for something that isn't true. [[13.00]] Here's what Gergely Arató said: Our culture doesn't dictate. Well, it really makes me wonder that he wasn't the Secretary of State, he wasn't the Prime Minister when the eyes were blown out. Wasn't he the Secretary of State, his boss, the Prime Minister, when they kidnapped young people when the fall speech was delivered? When budget fraud, budget fraud, was raised to such an extent and to such a high level that even Brussels was fooled? It wasn't him? And he says this sentence that our culture doesn't dictate. Gergely Arató also told us to return the resources. They crippled the municipalities until 2010, they became fully indebted, we returned nearly HUF 1,400 billion in order to eliminate their debt so that they could operate, and he says that we are the ones who cripple the municipalities. I would also like to address this question to the speech of Lóránt Keresztes Lóránt LMP, although I would now like to say that in his tone and style he is more of a DK representative or a deputy leader of the DK faction. I'm sorry, either it's a misconception or malice, or it's a lie, or it's surrounded by your speeches, or it's all three of them. First of all, we're not talking about a law of faith. It's not a law of faith. Read his address. It's not religious, but that's what you said. He says it's national minorities. There are nationalities in Hungary, not national minorities. I'm sorry, you should've learned that in four years. Don't argue with us about certain things, argue with Ferenc Gyurcsány. In the matter of border protection, the dismantling of a fence, church support, what I said, in attacks against churches, attacks against the countryside, do not argue with us, do not argue with us in terms of reducing our overhead. Róbert Zsigó clearly refuted his claims about Baja, stating how much support Baja has received in recent years. And you're saying we're gonna bleed Baja out? By the way, Baja will receive HUF 560-560 million in compensation in the past years, as well as in 21 years, this year as well. In parentheses, my pro-government Esztergom doesn't pay a penny. So much for bleeding out, bleeding out the opposition government. Whatever you say, whatever you point out, read the title of the law, because I don't think you can understand it. But to add, I wouldn't do one thing on the LMP's part, if it's still LMP's. In Paks and Green, they comment and act as experts all the time, which is amazing. I wouldn't dare do that. Ask Minister Süli, who knows how to do it after all. You've said things about Paks and this law, which is a disaster. It's a disaster. Because the main rules of the nuclear record are still in the nuclear law. You said the opposite. The Presidential Decrees of the National Atomic Energy Office on the Nuclear Register have so far been a ministerial decree. The President's regulation comes from the Fundamental Law. The National Assembly continues to supervise the activities of the National Atomic Energy Office, and the Government cannot instruct it in its activities. You, if you've read this out of the law, I have to say it's text understanding, malice. I can't decide, that's for you to decide, but I'm sure I can decide that what you want us to do is stop with Paks, Paks won't go any further, so that no nuclear power will lead to what's in Germany. The great green culture they've come up with... What do they do on one side? They're buying electricity from France. What makes it? Atomic Energy, dear congressman. Isn't that irresponsible? On the other hand, the missing energy, do you know where Germany is replacing it? It's brown coal. What are they doing? They chug much more and destroy the environment much better than if they had chosen a reasonable solution. This is the path you want to take. You want to choose a way to increase the price of energy many times so that there is no supply of energy. That's what they're attacking. Why, for what reason? I can't figure this out, but think about the responsibility of running a country and turning on the lights every day, heating it every day, and energy every day at companies. This is exactly what you are working against, and this is the biggest disaster in your policy, they say, puff big things, they say interesting things, but in order for a country to survive in the long run, it is possible for its economy to survive, and people to live in their everyday lives, and there is nothing to be added to that. Thank you so much for... [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] I did not agree with the speech by Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member, a candidate for Prime Minister, and I did not understand that she said money laundering in the churches. Congresswoman is a lawyer, an educated lawyer, and I understand she's not a bad lawyer. I need you to look into it, please. The State Audit Office has already examined and examined the churches. Don't tell me you didn't. Churches, dioceses, ecclesiastical districts, the little denominations, they're looking at everyone. So don't tell me they're not in it. That's a harsh approach, accusing churches of money laundering. You know that churches have their religious activities, and on the other hand, churches have the enormous public service that they perform at such a high level that it is no coincidence that their schools, social institutions, hospitals are crowded, many times the need for applications or the need for beneficiaries to go there, and they are unable to carry on the task, because so many people would like to ask for the help of the churches. And they're not all men of faith. You attacked not only the priests, pastors, church leaders, not only the believers, but also, I say, those who are non-believers and would like to use the public service of the churches. Madam Member, I simply did not understand your attack. Varga Simeon, a Bulgarian advocate and through him, the committee of nationalities, thank you very much for your cooperative attitude, and after we really are at the end of the cycle, let me have a thought here, and this is not really part of the law. But just as I thanked Mr Zoltán Balczó for his work over the past decades, I would like to thank the speakers in Parliament and the German Member for his work so far, this four-year activity. We have done a great deal of work, it has been a very big task, and we will continue to do this work together, because, as we often stress, everything cannot be resolved in four years or eight or twelve years. But the task and all the work behind us, and the work that has been solved, has resulted in unity and unity. I thank Parliament's advocates, Mr President, very much for this. I wish Dániel Z. Kárpát good luck in the lap and hug of Ferenc Gyurcsány. I'm glad you're used to qualifying, although this, which you said in eight minutes and 30 seconds, was not free from hatred, but we're used to it; I'm not particularly interested in how you classify me, how others rate it. I'm sure he's made an interesting career himself, from radical Jobbik, into the arms of radical communists. Thank you very much for the speeches, the supporting contributions, and thank you very much for the support of the law. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-02-22-64	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I would like to address Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member, who will address her speech on the margins of the past four years. Here you go.
u2022-02-22-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, So, coming to the last days of the 2018-22 parliamentary term, I thought that they would start to remember some of the past four years. When I arrived in Parliament on 8 May 2018, as a representative of Jobbik, I saw that the people on our left turned their backs on us. Certainly not many people noticed it on the opposite pages, but we did, because I thought I did everything I could to be a congressman, and I thought it was strange that anyone would turn their backs on me or my community. [[13.10]] Between us and the left-wing and liberal representatives there was a buffer zone, this was the LMP, who had hidden our person from the left-wingers, and so we did not need to see our person, the national radicals, who had been called fascists and Nazis for a very long time in the previous years. Of course, I, an integrating personality, did not think that this had to stay this way, and I certainly went to talk to my fellow left-wing and liberal Members, and I tried to turn my back and turn their attention to us, because I think that we are all here for the good of the nation, we are acting for the good of the nation, and we have to work together to defeat that terrible power of power, the Orbán system together. After the election in 2018, voters were angry with the leaders of opposition parties for a reason, as there were 24 constituencies out of 106 where they should have returned the less likely candidate for the opposition, and in this way they could have avoided another two-thirds victory of Fidesz. It was natural for me to see this social need being served here by opposition representatives, trying to earn their trust, and by 2022 to create a system in which no one is dissolved in the other, everyone retains their national mission, everyone retains their values, but we admit that society wants a kind of cooperation and I stress that it does not seek cooperation to win the 2022 election. When I started talking to representatives of DK and MSZP, the LMP was excusable, I received letters and reproofs from my political community about not being able to speak to Ferenc Gyurcsány's party and its representatives. And I said that I was talking to my fellow Members, and my aim is to meet the social need that opposition voters have to make, to engage in dialogue with each other, and to prepare for 22 so that the Orbán system can really be overcome. By the end of 2018, there was a quality cooperation between opposition parties that could have been built on, and indeed we would not be standing there at the end of February 22 so that we should hope that there would be a change of government. The slave law brought the opposition representatives together even more, and even a great initiative, the political action of the women in white hats, was a truly special and unprecedented cooperation that could have been built on with the start-up of 22 and not giving up values and values. But there was already signs that the left side of Jobbik was starting not a sympathy, but a validation process. Imagine, fellow Members, that, at the meetings of the white hats, the right-wing women were put on the brink of events, and when left-wing liberal representatives put the pictures on their sides of the event, the two edges were cut off: Potocscane and I were cut off from the edge. That's when I felt that we were just going to be a verification tool, and the goal that I myself set in 2018 was not going to happen, but instead of cooperating, it would be a merger. We have now reached the point that a national liberal Dániel Z. Kárpát will be on the opposition list after Ferenc Gyurcsány, and we have reached the point that he believes that he will be next to Klára Brenner Koloman Dobrev, a national radical representative, and we have come to the conclusion that György Szilágyi, who even in the elections, said that Ágnes Vadai and I are not kissing, will practically be next to Ágnes Vadai on this list. So I can say, ladies and gentlemen, that this unfortunately did not work out. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-02-22-66	Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction:. Our city, Pécs, is speaking after the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-02-22-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Well, indeed, in my speeches after the agenda, I usually talk about the affairs, fate and problems of my country, Pécs and Baranya, but I have now arrived at the last speech of the 2018-2022 parliamentary term. I would like to begin here by thanking you with respect for the opportunity to serve the Hungarian people, the Hungarian nation, as Members of Parliament, and thank you for the opportunity that, in addition to dealing with national affairs, I have tried to work conscientiously and preparedly in national matters, to speak on matters, and I thank you for bringing the matters of Pécs and Baranya here to the Parliament, and in this way I may have been able to do so for the development of our region. At the same time, if we look back here over the past period, we are in a difficult situation right now: we hope to be in a calming branch of a pandemic. It was an extremely difficult time, which was a very serious ordeal here in office, by the way. I would like to thank the Parliament, the Parliament, all the staff of the Parliamentary Office for their sacrifice, for allowing the Hungarian Parliament to function. We do not talk about this very much, but it is clear that their work, their sacrifice, without their work, could not work the Hungarian Parliament. I myself, when I came out here to speak in the Parliament, and I was in a lot of debates with the members of the government and Members of Parliament who are not here, and I was always guided by the fact that I represented the interests of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian nation here, so I can tell you honestly that the insults and slanders, in any case, or attacks, personal attacks that came from the Fidesz benches. I think that if someone is going to serve the nation here in Parliament, this is how it should be done and that his hands should not shake in these difficult debates and difficult situations. But I can tell myself that I am a believing Christian man, a strong national emotion, a very powerful local patriot, I can say that Pécs and Baranya are warriors, so I also received attacks not in one case that I am a lobbyist of Pécs and Baranya here in the Parliament; I have taken this as a compliment. I have been saddened to see how the system of NER, Viktor Orbán's nation-treasoning government, has been developed in recent years, how a series of outrageous measures have been taken, how public wealth has been outsourced, how Hungarian universities have been organized under the direction of their own political lunar yards in such a way that there is no longer a Hungarian university of state reserve; the University of Pécs, the most important institution of our city, has also been put under fidesz political control. As the leader of the Group of the Green Party of LMP-Hungary, as I have already said, I also see as a Christian national-minded and sustainable representative for the future of the nation, the need to replace this government serving foreign interests, which is why I think it is important that this opposition cooperation has indeed been able to develop. I stress that the left does not call Viktor Orbán's system here, and the opposition does not represent the left: there are indeed conservative, Christian-social, liberal, left-wing, green parties on the right who have cooperated, and we agree that this nation-treasoning regime must indeed be replaced. And in this respect, the April 3rd election will be crucial. Together with our cooperation in this situation and our desire to defeat Viktor Orbán's system in opposition cooperation, we are not exactly the same, we have not merged, as Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm said. We are in a situation where we have been able to fight and now we can fight the important debates that we have on the opposition side. And, indeed, we will pay attention to each other, we will pay attention to the needs of the electorate, and we will strive to meet the interests of all Hungarians living within and beyond the borders, and we will govern Hungary accordingly with the appropriate mandate. I therefore respectfully thank you again for the opportunity to work here and work here in this parliamentary term. I would also like to thank my fellow factions for the work they have done, and all of our group's colleagues from here. And I would ask all Hungarians to see the crucial significance of the 3 April election, to go and support the candidates of the opposition alliance, to support the change of government, and I can say that we will promote Hungary and the affairs of the Hungarian nation with faith, honor and readiness in the next parliamentary term. Thank you very much. [[13.20]]
u2022-02-22-68	Thank you. An independent Member of Tibor Bana has also applied for a post-the-meeting speech:, Let's write a success story. Speak with a title. Here you go.
u2022-02-22-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For 12 years, I have served the people in the constituency of Körmend-Szentgotthárd as Members of Parliament. During that time, I was able to achieve countless concrete results. One of the most important of these relates to the internal renovation of the Baroque church in Szentgotthárd, as in 2010 the majority of the Parliament accepted my proposal to amend the budget, which promoted the interior renovation of our city's Baroque church, the third largest Baroque church in the country. This proposal covered a hundred million forints, and then required serious follow-up to make substantial progress, but fortunately this was achieved. At the time, I held professional consultations with Pastor Ferenc Rimfel, who, unfortunately, has since passed away, but he has done a great deal at the time to make this renovation possible. It is a fact and it is true that there have been further subsidies since then, but at the time of the 16th of March, the consecration of the church following the recent renovation, it must not be forgotten that this was indeed the proposal that launched the Baroque Church in Szentgotthárd on the path of this development, which I also considered very important as a Reformed Presbyter. And I am glad that for those living in and around our city, this brings great joy, and also for those who visit the city and visit this beautiful temple, which will really shine more beautifully now, which is already more beautiful than it used to be. But I also had other proposals to promote the development of the region: this was the question of the Felsőszölnök-Tétvölgy linking road, because I have also brought this up on numerous occasions, I have tabled a motion and I have spoken in this context. It was Uncle Csuk Feri of Szentgotthárd who told me on several occasions how important this is, and thank him for his help, and I was very happy that this connecting path could be realized. But I can mention my actions for commuters, as I was in constant contact with them at the time of the coronal virus epidemic, and I was able to reach it after the discussions with Minister Péter Szijjártó, in agreement with him, to open the border of the undersolder. So it is certainly a pleasure that I have been able to show these successes over the past twelve years, or I can bring them here from the last few weeks when I have consulted GYSEV Zrt., and their schedule has been modified so that the employees of Szentgotthárd can travel more comfortably now on Saturdays and do not have to wait so long. There are also other proposals in the other direction, who are working in Szombathely, the county seat, so it would be worth making amendments in this context. Of course, I can be counted on by the people in the region. But even at the beginning of the epidemic, I had a motion that was accepted for the drivers of the Volánbusz. Of course, we have other tasks ahead of us. For me, representation of the people in the area is my priority. Regardless of party standing, I can be counted on by those who live in 127 settlements of the Szentgotthárd-Körmend constituency. You can count on me when it comes to standing up for the hospital in Körmend and saving it, which is an extremely important issue, but the same is true for the establishment of a home for the elderly in Szentgotthárd, the bypass road to Vasvár, the modernisation of the producer market in Jánosháza, and the reduction of maladministration in the operation of the national park in the case of Őriszentpéter and the Őrség; unfortunately, the National Park of Őrség does not take into account the views, everyday life and visions of the locals. That needs to be changed, too. There are many villages and 88 small settlements, less than 500 settlements in the constituency. The question of roads, sidewalks, the solution of sewage and precipitation water drainage is all problems to be solved, but also the improvement of the situation of lower roads. In this context, I will do everything I can. I keep walking around the settlements of the district with my helpers, listening to problems and suggestions. So everyone from the smallest villages to the largest settlement can count on me, from Orfalu to Kakoza, from Szentgotthárd to Jánosháza. That is why it is very important that now, when the 3rd of April is approaching, the parliamentary election, everyone should consider the results and successes of the last 12 years. And I ask the people in the constituency of Körmend-Szentgotthárd to support me regardless of party standing, so that I can continue to assist them, representing the people in the region, bringing momentum to the constituency. Thank you all very much for your encouragement and your help. Let's write a success story. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-02-22-70	Thank you. Our next speaker is Dóra Dúró, an independent Member, who should delete immunity. Speak with a title. Here you go.
u2022-02-22-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Orbán government is taking corruption to its peak, which, according to our country movement, must be put to an end. But the attitude of the left is very interesting, because a few weeks before the election campaign began, the news was published by a left-wing journalist that Lőrinc Mészáros, Viktor Orbán's number one oligarch, paid ten billion HUF in cash in a deal in cash to László Bige, the biggest supporting oligarch of Péter Márki-Zay, and then, when asked on ATV, Péter Márki-Zay that he would agree that Lőrinc Mészáros should be sent to prison, then what was the answer of the left-wing Prime Minister's candidate: no. So far, accountability is spreading on the left. In fact, there is no political will and intention in Péter Márki-Zay to account for the oligarchs of Fidesz, since we can see that they are intertwined in the background and are making ten billion-dollar deals; what is interesting in itself is that someone pays ten billion forints in cash in advance to another person, which is a huge confidence. But there are other specific cases that have also taken place under the governance of Viktor Orbán, and the left is also affected, and even Jobbik has given its consent. This is, for example, the purchase of printers by the current government entrusted Ákos Erdős with his company. About Ákos Erdős, you should know that Ferenc Gyurcsány was a business partner and a very good friend, and it is his company that can also produce vaccination cards, so his economy, his farming and state orders are very well flourishing, let alone being accounted for by the National Book Publisher, for example, because of its corruption-suspecting privatization. But unfortunately for them, this contract, which is about this printing acquisition, was blown into the mailbox of the Hungarian Movement, and it is clear that a printer that costs HUF 22,000 in a store has been billed for HUF 180,000, which is HUF 35,000 and HUF 170,000 for that. Well, that's how Fidesz takes care of public money. This obvious overpriced is also paid to Ferenc Gyurcsány's former business partner without a sock. However, in this procurement, the procurement procedure should have been completed, since it is not a small amount of money, it is HUF 2.3 billion. But imagine that, no, in this case, this has been waived, because the National Security Committee of the National Assembly has expressly agreed to this. And at the bottom of the resolution that states that the procurement procedure can be avoided here is signed by the chairman of the National Security Committee, who happens to be a better person. So the Hungarian reality today is that the government of Viktor Orbán pays HUF 2.4 billion to fully overpriced printers, with the consent of the better president of the National Security Committee, Ferenc Gyurcsány was his business partner and his buddy, by circumventing the public procurement procedure. Well, this case, as a veterinary horse, shows that these two big blocks that can scold each other with such vehemency in front of the scenes are in the background, doing business, doing business, and filling public money in their own pockets. Our Hungary Movement is the guarantee that there will be finally accountability in Hungary, because Péter Márki-Zay admitted that he did not intend to send Lőrinc Mészáros to prison, but our Hungary's Virradat program contains several points on how to achieve this. For example, as a single party, the Hungarian Movement demands the abolition of the immunity of Members. There is no need for this, and rather, this institution has become a hotbed for political crime. We would also set up an anti-corruption prosecutor's office, since these reports of Péter Polt are dropping, helping the government as an accomplice to make up public money in this way. [[13.30]] We also recommend that double punishment be imposed on politician criminals so that Hungarian public life is clearer. Anyone who wants to be accounted for on April 3rd, vote for our country's movement. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. István Apáti applauds.]]
u2022-02-22-72	Thank you. Our next speaker is István Apáti, an independent Member, who will also protect our children from vaccination. Speak with a title. Here you go.
u2022-02-22-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Our Hungary Movement is the only party that has expressed consistent views on the coronal virus epidemic as a global epidemic that has been thrown at mankind's neck instead of a world war. We have done this in connection with the closures, and we have done so in connection with the completely pointless and dangerous vaccination field and vaccination obligation. In the first minute, we said the same thing that we are holding to this day, namely that everyone must decide on their own free will whether to use the vaccine or not, whether to take the vaccine or not, and if they do not wish to take advantage of this option, so that they remain undisposed, they cannot suffer any disadvantage. Compared to this, we can see that the government was speaking in a professional and political way, completely confusing Hungarian people who were already short of information, and we also saw that vaccination was a huge business. The only problem the left had with this was that the left preferred Western-made vaccines, and Fidesz saw a huge profit and a serious fantasy in both Eastern and Western products. He considered the position of the late awakening Jobbik of the Hungarian Movement to be completely uncredited by the fact that a petition against vaccinations had to be launched for nothing, because a few weeks earlier, the united left demanded the introduction of the fourth vaccine in a choir. Péter Márki-Zay's candidate for the Minister of Health would like to find all three million of our uninoculated countrymen and get them well vaccinated, and he also said that there would be not only a fourth, but a fifth or a sixth vaccination. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has also become completely uncredited in this regard, since while a few weeks earlier it practically demanded that vaccination be mandatory, it has now launched a petition of zero value against it. And Péter Márki-Zay said that he could directly, directly, introduce, accept, or object to the introduction of this vaccine. Thus, the left would openly introduce mandatory vaccinations, and Fidesz would do the same by tacit, sneaky, sneaky methods. It is not formally mandatory, but those who do not take advantage of this option, who do not take up vaccination, are on virtually unpaid leave, are practically at risk of their job, income, in an inflation environment where inflation in the price of basic foodstuffs is not measured in percentages, but in multipliers. Obviously, many people choose coercion status. However, the most dangerous, the lowest and the future generation are also threatened by the obligation to inoculate children. Formally, we can say that this is not mandatory in general. However, at the moment, my fellow Members, the reality is that if a positive case is found in a primary or secondary school class, then the uninoculated children will be sent home, and only vaccinated children will be allowed to participate in attendance education. We haven't heard the balliberal side churning about what a terrible, exclusional, extreme, quasi-apartheid policy it is to send our children home because of their inoculation and punish these completely healthy uninoculated children, because they can spread the virus just as much as the uninoculated, so it doesn't make any sense. Plus, there's no digital education. Most parents don't have the money for a private teacher, so obviously the child shouldn't be placed in a homeschool status. What will come of this? Despite the anxiety of most parents and their vivid sense of danger, they may needlessly inoculate their children so that they do not lose their jobs and that the child does not suffer psychological and other harms. We find it terribly false that when the government propaganda seems to spend the month of March with child protection, of course we agree with the fact that our Hungary Movement is the farthest agree that the physical, intellectual, emotional and moral development of our children is the most important thing in the world, but it should also be important when it comes to the need to avoid and forget completely unnecessary vaccination. In the United States of America, only between 0.1 and 1.9 percent of all infected children are admitted to hospital, and up to 10 percent of this already insignificant rate requires intensive therapy. In Europe, this rate is even less than 8 percent. It also shows that it is pointless and unnecessary to require children to be vaccinated, which can be very dangerous especially for little girls, as it can cause cycle disorders and even infertility in adulthood. Ladies and gentlemen, Hands off our children! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Protect our children, quite rightly, but then they must also be protected from vaccination. After 3 April, the Hungarian Movement will eliminate such obligations by one stroke of a pen if it becomes an unavoidable political factor. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-02-22-74	Thank you. Our next speaker is Congressman László Varju, a representative of DK, who is the representative of what is happening in Újpesten? Speak with a title. Here you go.
u2022-02-22-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Newpesten, but even in other areas, we may encounter a situation where we really need treatment. I would like to account for and report on such a situation. Újpesten has been working for a long time, decades, and even longer than that, in a prestigious company called Tungsram, which currently has 3,000 employees, compared to the 40,000 in the prime age, but this company is now in difficulty. A few years ago, a change of ownership took place, and a company management with very ambitious plans sought to have an opportunity by the end of 2022 to renew the company's activities and create conditions to maintain the modern employment of its employees and otherwise produce modern products. However, these plans have been broken by the economic crisis itself, and, unfortunately, in this situation, there have been circumstances where the collective agreement has been terminated unilaterally, although after consultation, I must say this in the past. The collective agreement in my hand, which will be amended at some points at the end of May, changes important elements that are essential for trade unions. However, the impact of this change is associated with the formation of the Strike Committee by the trade unions. This situation has led me to draw the government's attention first of all to the fact that a company that has a strategic partnership with the government has developed a number of collaborations, proposals have been supported, and here I expect the government to do as much as possible to help this company in these circumstances, for the benefit of 3,000 employees. If I mention just one of these, for example, in Nagykanizsa, where I also consulted my fellow Member, Mr Jácint, Nagykanizsa is home to the largest lamp factory in Europe, where this production is currently taking place. But it is equally affected by four additional sites in the country, which ensure this employment. The company has received clear information from the employees, in which the amendment of the collective agreement was justified by the fact that the reason for our decision has been shared with you several times - the Covid epidemic and the global economic crisis with it, the multiple increase in energy and raw materials prices, global logistics problems, important investments, project delays, suspension of our costs require thorough rationalisation and reduction, and to this end more action is taken by terminating the three points of the collective agreement. [[13.40]] As I said, trade unions do not accept this, and trade union leaders have also issued a statement that, although on the basis of the proposal submitted, the trade union delegation considers it unacceptable that they are unwilling to reach an interim agreement on termination benefits for workers of non-protected age, and that their employees working here for 20-30-40 years, but not yet five years before retirement, have handed over a large part of their workforce to Tungsram and rightly expect an increased severance pay. That is why I think it is very important to learn that if the collective agreement is terminated and this can be done so quickly, they can easily become vulnerable to the code of work that the Orbán government has dumbed down; on the other hand, this government will do nothing to protect jobs that do. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They provide livelihoods for thousands of workers and families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Tibor Bana applauds.]]
u2022-02-22-76	Thank you. Mr Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a post-scheduled speech; the villages of the county of North Vas speak with the title 2018-2022. You have the floor.
u2022-02-22-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Yesterday I was able to report here in the walls of the House about the last four years of the cities of North Vas County. Today, I would like to give an overview of our region as a whole, highlighting the strengthening of villages. One of the great benefits of civil governance was that in 2016, for example, the M86 road was completed. The highway, in addition to the load relief of many settlements from unbearable traffic, connected our region to the national and European motorway network. The development of transport has continued since then: the construction of the railway between Szombathely-Kőszeg and the preparation of road development are taking place. In addition, Volán has put on the market a number of new high-quality buses to serve the travelling public in our region. Over the past four years, the Nick dam and flood protection systems have been renovated by large investments in Northern Vas County in the last four years, and the rest of the M86-0s customs family has been established. North Vas County was affected by the government's decision to establish the tourist area of Bük-Sárvár. This wonderful landscape will await the arrivals from Kőszeg to Celldömölk, both the old and new guests, with the end of the epidemic. Accommodation renovations of the Kisfaludy program also helped in many settlements. Saving our church heritage is our common cause, since a church is a symbol of the village or city, so the Hungarian church reconstruction program can contribute to making the settlement image more beautiful in our region at 28 locations. Older buildings could be renewed in Gencapáti, Merseva and Pápoc. With government support, we could start the development of closed gardens in a number of places. The sewer network is still a task to be solved in many places, but we have also made progress in this area, as in recent years the sewer system could be built in Acsad, Bozzai, Meslen, Vassilgíz és Váton, as well as in Hegyfalu, Pósfán, Szelestén, Ölbő, Zsédeny. In total, over 5 billion people from 11 430 citizens live in the county of North Vas, with their family tax refund. They live in all our settlements from the smallest Iklanberény to the cities. Hungarian economic growth is now one of the fastest in Europe, allowing the government to pay back the paid-up money. Unlike the left, we believe in supporting families. We do not want to put more burdens on their shoulders, as they did during the global economic crisis in 2009. House of Honor! Since the launch of the Hungarian village program in 2018, nearly half a thousand applications have been supported in our region for HUF 5.3 billion. The source of this was, among other things, municipal and ecclesiastical buildings, medical offices, medical instruments, kindergartens, schools, sidewalks, roads, cemeteries. In addition, the village program also provided a significant source of resources for public facilities, village buses, playgrounds, sports parks, convenience stores and NGOs. In most cases, the Hungarian village programme contributed to the development of which the municipalities would not have had the power of their own. It is important to note that more than 5.3 billion forints were available, as thanks to the village program, the Road could also start renovating the lower roads. The Hungarian village program and the village CSOK make it more and more visible that our villages have a future. As a result, we had to start developing nurserys in several small settlements. Much remains to be done, but in recent years our settlements have made one step forward in many areas. During the period 2002-2010, many settlements of the county of North Vas were trapped in a loan trap and barely had the opportunity to develop. The opposite is true now: for the first time, the country's management has paid off their loans. Since then, we have been able to achieve new dreams step by step with the support of the government, through partnership, cooperation and joint work in the interests of North Vas County. In solving the things that are still ahead of us, as they have done so far, they can still count on me. In the future, we must continue to fight with determination and momentum from the smallest to the largest settlement. Our common goal is to continue the work we have begun. North Vas County has to go forward, not back. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-02-22-78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to be held on 27 March 2022. This will take place on a weekly basis. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed.
