u2019-07-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I warmly welcome all of you and all of you who are monitoring our work today. The second day of the third extraordinary session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Congressmen Attila Gelencsér and György Szilágyi will be in charge of the meeting. By way of derogation from the original scenario, as necessary, but in agreement with the stakeholders, I would like to indicate that we will be able to address those who are not in the Chamber at the moment in accordance with the arrival. Mr Brenner Koloman spoke before the agenda with the title of the Anti-Science Tragedy from the Jobbik Group. Congressman, thank you for agreeing to speak out of order. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Today there will be a vote in this House on which, I think, we have held policy debates, everything has been said about the transformation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which had to be said at policy level. Today, the Parliament will determine the further development of Hungarian science in the longer term, and I would like to add a little addition to that, especially to my fellow Members who are fidesz. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: KDNP?]] We leave signs behind. As a Member of Parliament, these signs remain a little longer than, let's say, as a private person, especially given the fact that a record of these meetings will be drawn up, which, in 50 years' time, will be analyzed by then historians and other researchers, setting up theories and arguing about it. I believe that I have also said to Minister in the policy debates that it is extremely regrettable that the very important goal of modernising the academy system that was established after 45, which will actually take place very late, since this, like so many other things, would have been the place to publish agent files, and so on, after 90, would have been here, but a process started under the leadership of President Pálinkás, former Minister of Fidesz, on an academic modernisation in 2012, and this process could have been continued after a well-prepared policy debate. But there has been a loss of confidence that I also asked Minister for in my speech as general speaker to resolve this by, for example, supporting my proposed budget amendment, which would have reversed the planned transformation in the 2020 budget and put the outsourced research network back in the bosom of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. So there would have been an opportunity to resolve this conflict in this series of negotiations. Extract from the record of doctoral protection on July 2, 2052. The candidate certifiedly demonstrated that his assumption that very serious parallels could be discovered between the methodology of the one-party communist dictatorship built after 1945 and the anti-scientific activity of the one-party Fidesz autocracy, which was built after 2010, was fundamentally proven, since, for example, as Prince Mindszenty accused the principal of currencyization, the communist power of discrediting it morally, in 2019 we reached the point of visiting a pleasure cave within the MTA in order to destroy the most important representatives of Hungarian science morally. Dear fellow Members, The proposed assessment of this candidate is summa cum laude. If you do not listen to their conscience today and vote against the transformation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, then at the end of your doctoral defense, scientific public life and later generations of Hungary will be classified as insucicenter. I respectfully ask you not to expose the Hungarian science and yourselves to this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Peter Ungár applauds.]]
u2019-07-02-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm in a very difficult situation for several reasons. One of the reasons is that I do not know how many times this problem has been put on the agenda outside the debate, which has taken place in Parliament in relation to the amendment of the law. And the reason I'm in a difficult position is because as one of the values of scientific life, as an element, as a member of the audience, you're trying to make the audience believe that in a doctoral dissertation, they describe eternal truths that need to be accepted as ex-katedra statements, and that can't be argued with. Because you're saying that this doctoral dissertation, if I understand it correctly, is a very serious parallel between a dictatorship and the current period. If the writer who created this doctoral dissertation and you find serious truth in this, then it might be worth taking a look elsewhere and seriously considering the use of adequate resources to write the doctoral dissertation. But I think that that was not the point of his speech and that was not his motivation, but perhaps that if I wanted to put it well, then the protection of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and research and development. But the most important thing for the government is, of course, that the members of Hungarian scientific life, researchers and their institutions, research institutes, universities, MTA can help Hungarian society, the Hungarian economy with the greatest possible benefit, which society expects from this layer, the members of scientific life, and the research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences where scientists, our scientists, and the educated heads of people work. To this end, you are naturally aware, and I hope that this is accepted and supported by the government for R &amp; D and innovation in the 2020 budget by HUF 32 billion more, precisely because the government considers this area to be important, it is important that the Hungarian scientific community and the institutional network and institutional system in which the scientific community can help the Hungarian economy, Hungarian society, work properly, and that funding should also be provided in an appropriate way. However, the reason why the transformation was necessary, you know that, even if you are trying to deny it publicly, is because, based on the surveys of the past period, and not only we say this in Parliament, but also international knowledge centres, including the European Commission, have found and repeatedly confirmed that the system of Hungarian science and its effectiveness are facing major challenges, which means that, for example, I can only give you one proof, the latest edition of the European Innovation Ranking states that our country's innovation performance is at most stagnating and that the other countries are improving. [[8.10]] Therefore, our position has deteriorated even further, we are in 23rd place, where we have fallen back in the ranking of the 28 Member States, so there is something to be done. All those who claim that this system, which has worked so far, has been able to meet the expectations that society has set against it with sufficient efficiency, here is the rebuttal that, while elsewhere in the ranking, research institutes, staff from the scientific academy there, or researchers and scientists working in research institutes have been able to demonstrate a great deal of performance, and in Hungary we have been significantly backwards in the ranking, and it can be said that we have become a rush driver in the rankings of the Member States of the European Union. This needs to be changed, and we will change this with the intention of changing the law and with the result that the legislation changes that the funding of research institutions will grow within the framework of an independent unit, and will thus become more effective with an appropriate community in a body governed by government and scientific society, with the help of a governing body, the work that research institutions will do in the next period for the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-02-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At the end of the collapse, Member Gergely Arató of the DK Group, with the title of the system of office, came forward to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Things at government offices, especially the situation at government windows today, are an eloquent and beautiful example of the fact that if this government starts doing something good and starts off in the right direction by accident, it is still able to destroy the results of this in an unthinkable way. True, the inventor of the steering window system, Tibor Navracsics, has been disgraced; it seems that the government officials who started working in this system have also been disgraced. What happened? Today, there is a massive shortage of personnel in county government offices that threatens normal functioning. The lines are growing, and the only response of the government to this situation is that it shortens the opening hours, in Hungarian there will be more people in government offices during a given period of time, because the cases have to be settled, the passport has to be replaced during the summer period, the motor vehicle issues have to be dealt with, and I can still list for an infinity the many functions that have been crowded in government windows, or even now, at the baby shower credit, people who want to use this loan will have to ask for a social security certificate. What happened? We could say that, then, the labour market has risen so much that the competitive sector is now more attractive or that for some mysterious reason, government officials have run out. But that is not the case, my fellow Members, but that the government has consciously destroyed the government's administration system, the government window system. Because we all remember sitting here, if I remember correctly, in November-December, and talking about the new rules on government officials. There we all said from the opposition side that these rules are unfavourable for these workers, government officials, we have said that their freedom is decreasing, we have said that they can be overworked without adequate compensation, we have said that they will be deprived of professional autonomy, freedom, we have said that if we go in this direction, then it will be even less attractive to be a government official than before. We have also said that the wage arrangements you are proposing are very favourable to those who work directly in the central government, but do not eliminate injustice among those working in county government offices and central administration. But of course, not only did we say this, but also the trade unions who constantly drew attention to the fact that this system is going in the wrong direction, constantly pointing out that the career of the public service, including the career of government officials, is being emptied to lose the benefits that made it suitable for this career for young people and workers. We told you that, and you said that no, well, there's gonna be great salaries here, but it's gonna be good for everyone, and the government officials are gonna be in a wonderful position. And then they tried to introduce this system, and 2,500 government officials didn't agree to work for you on these terms. [[To Dr. Balázs Orbán:]] Mr. Secretary, you're looking worried. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Shocked.]] I would like to ask you to look back on Minister Gergely Gulyás's hearing on the Commission's hearing and to announce this 2500 number. So 2,500 government officials refused to work under these conditions, did not undertake to work. This alone would only be a problem for the government if these government officials were not absent from where they were most needed, where they deal with the affairs of citizens. 'Cause you're happy to recite, Mr. Secretary of State yesterday about cutting red tape, but you're not cutting red tape, no, let's say, the number of government commissioners or the number of ministerial commissioners will soon be a government commissioner responsible for counting government commissioners in your government, because they're in that number. So not these types of unnecessary organisations are cut off, eliminated, but reduced the quality of service where the public administration provides services directly to citizens and manages their affairs. The consequence is, therefore, that you have made a stupid policy to destroy the government's civil servant system and, as a result, citizens are lining up, their affairs are not being dealt with quickly and professionally. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-02-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-02-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In your speech, you spoke about what we discussed during the parliamentary hearing of the Act on Government Administration and what opposition representatives would draw attention to. I would like to add to your speech what you did not say and what the opposition representatives did not say there at the hearing of the Act on Government Administration, because the fact is that you represent a party and held a very high office of administration in a government that has been famous for years for the unfortunate success of the dismantling of the Hungarian state. The period 2002-2010 was characterised by the fact that you ignored the fundamental character of the Hungarian state, ignored the principles of the Hungarian state's operation, destroyed the public administration, practically party interests and private interests, so the operation of the state was under lobbying interest. When this failed, because these activities broke the resistance of government officials, they resorted to a well-established method, outsourcing and privatisation. Citizens, who represent the public seeking rights on the one hand and who obviously want to deal with the state on the other hand, have received no help from you in any way. The period 2002-2010 is characterised by the citizen who had to run his papers to the other office from one office because the administrators said that it was his job to operate communication between the authorities and the offices. [[8.20]] So, citizens running around, in no way an official system not functioning according to the principles of service administration and citizen-friendly public administration, and where money and private interests were involved, outsourcing. It was your period of government. And if you're so concerned about government officials working in the system now, or if you're still civil servants, then I would say that if we were talking about appreciation, and I think we all agree that material appreciation is important, not only is there this type of appreciation, but it is an important form of appreciation. In particular, you are not talking about not raising the wages of public administration workers: they have reduced! It's been reduced. They took a third of their salary. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Other interrogations: Don't talk nonsense! The president's ringing the bell.]] Excuse me, Congressman, if that's what you're proud of. [[Noise. The president's ringing again.]] that, in addition to the fact that for a few years after 2006, by indebteding the state, they were able to raise the wages of civil servants to a certain extent, and then in 2009, when the crisis took place, they took away one-tenth of their money, if you call it government performance, then so be it! I don't think it's a government achievement. I think it's a spit in the face of people who worked in that system. I became a civil servant in 2009, 23 years old, out of college. The first measure I received from the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government was that my 13th month allowance was taken away. I remember that in particular. Ten years ago, it specifically affected me as a 23-year-old, career-starter, university student. [[Lajos Korózs: Has Viktor Orbán returned it nine times? Intercoms.- The president's ringing.]] This is what we got from the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government. Since then, however, we have tried to fix the relationship between the state and the citizens. [[Gergely Harvesto: Failed!]] That's why we've established district offices, that's why we've established government offices, that's why we've established a government window system. I am very pleased that you are no longer attacking this, but speaking in support of this package of measures. That's why I still remember what happened between 2010-14. Then you did not applaud Minister Tibor Navracsics for introducing the system. On the contrary! Similar, fundamentally uncredited criticisms have been formulated. And it is true that we are thinking of cutting red tape, and it is true that bureaucracy also means cutting numbers. I think that the number of 2500 that the Minister has said can be supplemented with additional numbers. We are happy about this, because this means that the Hungarian state is smaller and we hope that it is more effective, so in return we can promise government officials that we are working on higher wages. That's why it was 10-60 percent in 2016-17. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] wage increase at territorial administration level and 30% wage increase at central administration level. That's the direction we're going to continue in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-02-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Péter Ungár, from the LMP Group, entitled "The Abuse of Home Care" has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Gergely Gulyás, in the latest government briefing, said that for two reasons they would not raise the home care fee for those who do not care for their children. This is basically 38 or 58 thousand forints in Hungary today. The following two reasons were named by Gergely Gulyás. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] One is the budgetary burden and the other is the abuse of this system. Take the first one. The budgetary burden of this raising of the home care fee would be about 20-25 billion forints. I do not want to go into things at such a very low level of abstraction, what else will cost 20-25 billion HUF in the Hungarian budget, and I will not bring forward the new Hungarian Institute for Research at EMMI [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You didn't pull it out!]] nor the Budapest-Belgrade railway line [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's a good thing you didn't pull any of them out.]] I'm not going to tell you how much they're spending on government communication on this. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You didn't get this.]] I didn't do that. Instead, I would say that you can say a lot of things that would cost 20-25 billion forints and fit into this budget. [[Dr. Pál Völner: This is called a false statement.]] You know perfectly well that a budget this large, this large would fit that amount. So now we know that's not a real reason. The reason you don't raise the home care fee is because you don't want to. But let's go to the second one that I think Gulyás Gergely has become a Pavarotty of cynicism. The fact is that after nine years of governance, saying that there are abuses in a social system means that you have not been able to eliminate these abuses and have done nothing about them. It can't be an argument against a social increase that there's been abuse when you've been running the social government for nine years. So if abuse had been found so far, they might have had the opportunity to eliminate it in some way, but they did not. By the way, I would also like to point out that I asked the EMMI about how many of these abuses were in this form of care, so that we can see together whether there was so much abuse that would justify maintaining this amount at 38 or 58 thousand forints. Let us not go into the fact that the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office raised the word abuse not in relation to tao money, not in relation to government media spending, not in relation to the Hungarian textbook market, but in relation to the fact that there are Hungarian people who care for, say, their mothers living with Alzheimers for 0-24 hours throughout the week, they receive 58 thousand HUF! This is where Gergely Gulyás thought of the word abuse, not of government performance so far. The fact is, at present, people are not at a care fee because they are in a good mood. They cannot physically institutionalize elderly parents with dementia. You are aware that the minimum waiting time is currently two to three years in Hungary. I didn't make up this data. These are from the Central Statistical Office. At least two years in better places is the waiting time. What should this Hungarian citizen do for two years? And the other is that they don't go to work because they don't want to, but because in a lot of places, even if it can be solved somehow, they can't find a job that's flexible and can be done with care. This is a serious problem not only for parents, brothers, or mates, but also for home caregivers. The fact is that home care is something in which the government undoubtedly took a positive step at the end of last year when it raised the child care fee. But it's not enough, and you can't understand why it's going to be 100,000 forints or the minimum wage for someone who's caring for your child at home, but you don't give the same amount to someone who, say, is caring for your guardian at home, caring for your brother or spouse at home. We'll have another chance to change that on Friday. The LMP Group has a budget amendment that will enable them to increase the home care fee for all Hungarian citizens so that the shameful amount they are currently receiving will first increase to HUF 100 thousand and then to the minimum wage level in 2022. It's not enough money. This budget is not actually charged. And if you count these people, and social governance is not for you to tell you that everything in Hungary has always been basically fine and there is nothing to see here, then you will vote in favour of this amendment, not propaganda, but for these citizens, who will be thanked for the sacrifice they are doing in their own home. They're everyday heroes, and they deserve the respect it would mean 100 thousand forints. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-07-02-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I will start with the last sentence I agree with, and then I will tell you what you are very wrong about, honourable Member. Indeed, people who spend their lives taking care of their children or other relatives at home in the long term and ensuring that the sick, self-absorbed person is safe, home harmony, continuous care, they really deserve very much credit, and therefore we in Parliament must do everything in order to express this, both symbolically and financially. I agree with you so far. But the other part you have said, honourable Member: do you know the difference between Gergely Gulyás and the Fidesz-KDNP representatives and you and the opposition representatives? Last December 12th, we raised the care fee and added it to the legal system. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the children's home care fee. We raised these awards. And what did you do when you had the chance? 'Cause now you're talking about next Friday, and that's what's gonna happen. Honourable Congressman, It was here, I don't know if it was Monday or Friday, December 12th. [[Bence of Turdai: Do you understand what he's saying? Do you understand what he's saying?]] They were all here. You can yell at me, Congressman, because you respect these people so much, you can yell at me. [[Noise, interruptions in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[8.30]] I know it hurts when they hold a mirror for you. [[Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] He's only responsible as a Member of Parliament for beeping, honking, self-fucking [[Tibor Bana: Or he's stealing the country!]] with live broadcasts [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] You've been running live streaming between our benches, when it would have been your duty as a member of Parliament to introduce a hundred thousand forints of support to these families, and compared to that... [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] compared to this, he ran to the faction office to collect three more likings and more people follow your Facebook page when he should have voted in his place as a Member of Parliament that these families would receive an allowance of HUF 100,000 this year. and each year receive an increasing allowance and receive an allowance equal to the minimum wage by 2022. [[Bence Tordai: A quarter of those involved! Peter Ungár intervenes.]] But for you, the spare battery was more important, and the noise was more important. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And to do as close as possible a live video broadcast with the government representatives, and it was overwritten because in your political system of values, your hierarchy, the number one media presence, the alarm, the mood in Parliament, and he wouldn't even sacrifice those five seconds from that day on. [[A statement from the opposition.]] to vote in favour of this proposal in its own place. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] 'Cause it could have been that you've been poking around and going after him, but there's a point on the agenda, which is why the opposition is saying that we're against the amendment of the Labour Code, which you can of course do... for the last six months, of course, life has denied you, because what you've been trying to scare people with hasn't happened in the last six months, January to June. [[A statement from the opposition.]] So it's untrue, but he protests, he can protest, but the faction says that there's still a little humanity, let's take a break for half a minute, we'll go back to our seats for half a minute, we'll vote for an increase in the home care fee, we'll vote for the introduction of the children's home care fee, then we'll go back, we'll tug, we'll wind up [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Raise everyone's!]] And we're doing a live video broadcast. But there wasn't a single person in the opposition who at any of the faction meetings would have said at least that for a tiny period of time: we've been hustling all day, we've been hustling all day, but maybe we'll miss that period. [[Bence of Turdai: We get it, let's move on.]] Honourable Congressman, Allow me to tell you that in recent years, in order to be able to express, at least in part financially, the sacrifice of these people that they are really trying to make every day, that is why we have introduced, in addition to the basic and the increased care fee, the category of the special care fee, so that for those who care for their most serious family members, we were able to provide a 53 percent increase in the care fee even before the amendment that will enter into force this year, i.e. between 2014 and 18. And since, as you said, they can't do any work, so their pension is lower, which is why, for at least 20 years, the person who cared for his child in his own household, we provide them with a pension supplement of HUF 50,000 and a pension benefit. It is important that retirement years include home care and health insurance. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] As I said, what you did not support here in Parliament, the proposal was that you will receive a gross HUF 100,000 from this year, and in 2022 you will receive an allowance equivalent to the minimum wage at that time, and, moreover, from 1 January this year, the care fee has been raised universally by 15 percent, and next year's budget will include an additional 5% increase. [[Tordai Bence: 5%!]] You can support it in the budget if you like, honourable Member, and then in 2021 and 2022 it will continue to increase by 5 and 5 percent. [[Bence of Turdai: That's fantastic! The president's ringing the bell.]] However, your presentation of 12 December and of the present one only supports what appears in the budget amendments that they are frivolous and inadequate to manage the country. Thank you very much. [[Bence of Turdai: He was patheticly weak! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-02-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, from the MSZP Group, called "The Future of Education and Research." Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-13	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear House, I would like to talk about two laws that have been amended among our votes today: one is the amendment on the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the other is the amendment on the law that you consider to be a public education. I assume that you, the majority of the government, will vote both, and I can say for sure that we, the opposition, are opposed to both, will not vote, and the simple reason for this vote, our vote a few hours from now, is that you are in majority, and we are in minority. So I'm trying to get you a few hours before the vote, to try to think about the consequences of your vote for a few minutes. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences is one of the most prestigious institutions in the country, not only through its establishment and because of its activities, but also through its activities, not only within our country, not only in the whole of our nation, but indeed internationally; great scientists, a great body and a high-quality research network. This is what you want to destroy with today's bill. Yes, I have argued and argued on many occasions with my peers that this is a reduction in the freedom of research and education. You don't believe that, or at least you don't. The problem is, however, and this is what links my message to the other law, when it is not about the company of scientists, but about the youngest, students, children and grandchildren in public education. Because there, too, they want to put in place a series of legislative amendments, about which Bibo, if you remember his name, if you don't remember from anywhere else, named the college of their leaders about this person, said that the freedom of Central Europe is made up of small circles. As a result of this law, one of the last small circles of freedom in Hungarian public education disappears, and it is eliminated that children who are home-schooled for various reasons, schools that are consciously alternative, this word means that they cannot really be different from the main direction. I understand you're like, "Yes, you can, and as a consequence, I'm saying, "No, you won't." Their law does not require that there may not be, but it makes such modifications that their existence loses meaning. Because a different one, if it can't be different, it doesn't exist. An alternative is that if you can't be an alternative, you'll have to step in or you'll just disappear. You can say that I'm talking about a few thousand children. And I'm like, "If I'm gonna talk about a few things, I should still get up." You can say I'm talking about a few hundred teachers. And even if some teachers were affected by this sentence, I would still stand by them, because the difference between a child and a child is not only that one is talented in one field, the other in the other area, but that fortunately each is different as we are in the other. You do not want to acknowledge this difference, and you think that it is the duty of the state to demand that everyone who does not act at the same time does not get sloppy at night. They're different from meadows! Please accept that what you are doing in Hungarian public education is already in the fall, according to your own results, and I still know better what was in Hungarian public education before 2010 than you are; the fact is that the level of education was better than now. [[Lajos Korózs applauds.]] It wasn't trouble-free, it wasn't trouble-free! But it was better. Compared to this, you take this example, apply it in education, once again eliminate a small circle of freedom, another small circle of freedom and apply the same in Hungarian science, in the case of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Never! I'm not gonna accept it, and I'm recommending it to my partners. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-07-02-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, replied to the Vice-President's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I would have been surprised if you'd acknowledged the performance that the government, the Orbán government, has achieved in the field of education in recent years. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Therefore, we can take your comment or accept it as natural, adding, of course, that you have cried wolf countless times in different areas over the past period, and then later it was confirmed that they were wrong. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: A hundred thousand children are being kicked out of education!]] But then it was very quiet when we proved that we were right, when we found out that we were right, and then you were silent, and you didn't acknowledge our truth. [[8.40]] I'd like to say a few words. You said that the law includes the freedom of education, the possibility of an alternative school, you are afraid that we will not provide this opportunity. You will be sure, and I did not say by accident that you cried wolf, and you will not be right that there is no danger to alternative education, alternative schools, because that is not the goal. But how wrong they are when they cry wolf, with a few examples, perhaps I would like to prove this in the context of the MTA. In recent years, there have been numerous attempts to renew the operation of the MTA and the operation of the network of research institutes belonging to the MTA and its effectiveness in connection with some reform, or even a transformation that helps to meet the expectations of the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society against the MTA and its research institutes. The first attempt of this kind was in 2006 and you probably remember it, then, not in direct cooperation with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, one of your ministers wanted to make MTA equal to the ground. You must remember this, too, the words of János Kóka, that he wanted to plow and sprinkle salt on the MTA's trail. Compared to this, in 2011-12 and 2016, we tried to solve the effectiveness of scientific operation and the effectiveness of research institutions in cooperation with a kind of MTA. Unfortunately, with the exception of minor changes in efficiency, this was not possible, which is why we had to touch on the functioning of the institutional system, the restructuring of the institutional system in the way that it has been done in the past, and one of the major stages of which is the amendment of the law. In addition to the fact that in some structural changes something did happen here in 11-12 or even 16 the number of employees, the number of employees in the administration must be understood as the number of employees, there was no serious achievement, no serious result. That is why we need to take action to make the MTA's research institute network work more effectively. The principles of transformation are those that are very, very important, because we want to carry out this process in line with these principles. For example, a performance-based resource allocation, so we want to achieve a performance-based resource concentration. We want research institutions to make much more efficient use of the resources provided by the government, the state, for R &amp; D and innovation. I would like to add, although this figure has already been said today, that it will translate more than HUF 32 billion into R &amp; D and innovation in the next period, in the 2020 budget, if the budget is adopted by Parliament. And what is very, very important, the third is a very important element of the principles, taking into account economic and social effectiveness and developing innovation. It has also been said today that, unfortunately, on the basis of the results of recent years, the very sad statistical data has come out that we have fallen back in the field of innovation in the ranking of EU countries, and we are now 23 out of 28 Member States in this area. This also makes it necessary to transform the network of the MTA research institute and its operation and its financing. And the fact that education is not as serious as what you say, although it was in your time, the statistics show that both the proportion of graduates and the proportion of graduates have increased significantly over the past period, and, for example, we are likely to reach the 2020 target, because we are very close to it now, in 2019. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-02-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Member Bence Tordai, from the Dialogue Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I'm gonna talk about breaking up public education and kidnapping the MTA research network, but I'm gonna start a little further. I start from what Fidesz policy is about: Fidesz's policy is about concentrating power and wealth in their own hands. And now we've actually managed to maximize this in power, so from now on, your policy is about fear of power, your policy is driven by fear, your policy is driven by fear. And there's something to be afraid of, because they've put everything on one page: a change of power, a change of regime, you'll either be forced to prison, or you'll be exiled abroad, or at least you'll be surrounded by total contempt. I understand that the risk is serious, and I understand that they're very scared, but to quote two classics, fear doesn't do you any good. One is István Bibo, who said that the Democrat is not afraid, and the other is Master Yoda of Star Wars, who said that fear leads to the dark side. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Bibo is not a Jedi knight! Dr. Balázs Orbán: Poor Bibo!]] And you're both right in this situation: you're not Democrats, and you've switched to the dark side. We'll start from here. Let's see what they're most afraid of. They fear what may be the basis for their power, and their power is based on manipulation and the creation of an alternate reality. So you're afraid that if you get to know reality, people will get to know it. You are most afraid of reality, you are most afraid of the institutions that guarantee the knowledge of reality, the real knowledge, bring it to us. That's why you're afraid of the Academy, which is why you're afraid of school, of education. That is why you are fighting against scientists, which is why you are trying to make impossible those Hungarian researchers who, if your shameful law comes into force, either emigrating or changing jobs, changing jobs, changing careers, or pulling their ears, tails in, and trying to do professional work without any political consequences, that is good for you; or simply handing over their place to those more talentless but loyal colleagues who you welcome in this position. And what happens in public education if this amendment package passes? Infinitely loyal directors, who are restrained by the combination of honey and flogging, who should be afraid of their jobs even if they allow an information lecture to be held at school; you are such directors, led by such institutional leaders, who believe in a tailor-made education, based on silence, order, discipline, that is what they want to achieve. The Dialogue is a green left party, and here in Parliament it represents those who are worried about the end of the world and those who are worried about the end of the month. So let me highlight two areas of knowledge, two sections of reality, how you behave in this regard. How do they behave when it comes to poverty? KSH is ordered not to calculate the minimum living, and we are now at the point that when the Hungarian Trade Union Association wants to calculate the minimum subsistence, they do not provide the necessary data. [[Interventions from opposition benches: That's right.]] What's this? You're afraid of reality. That doesn't make life easier for people who don't come out of math at the end of the month! And they are equally afraid of reality when it comes to climate change. So far only Comrade Fat, Viktor Orbán, Gergely Gulyás said that ah, come on, this is not a serious matter. Now we are talking about the fact that your professional green painter, János Áder, joined the lie tsunami, began to delirate about Hungary's excellent performance in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, while the situation has deteriorated in recent years, stagnated ahead of him, and the only positive result was the collapse of the heavy industry in the 1990s. What are you talking about? ! They lie all the time! [[8.50]] You're afraid, you're denying reality, you're fighting real knowledge, you're fighting scientists and researchers, you're fighting teachers and children. This is your policy, which is what we will vote on today, which is what you will vote for, and this will be your shame. Thank you for listening.
u2019-07-02-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At the beginning of his speech, he spoke about power, relation to power. As far as I'm concerned, the opposition is governed by nothing but a hunger for power. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Not you!]] If I just look at you, you've started your policy at the LMP, then you've ripped out of the LMP, you've joined forces with the Ensemble. Then the Ensemble was stabbed in the back and stood next to the MSZP at last year's parliamentary election. At this year's municipal election, they're already campaigning with Jobbik in the capital. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: There will be trouble for you.]] to return to the arms of Ferenc Gyurcsány by 2022. [[Bence of Turda: Anyone against you! The devil, too! István Szilárd Németh: This is perfect with the devil too!]] So LMP, Together, MSZP, Jobbik, DK managed to go like this. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman! My party, the Christian Democratic People's Party, is a 75-year-old party. In 75 years, the Christian Democratic People's Party has not produced as many corners as you have guaranteed during the pre-election period in 75 hours. Our party is political right now on the same principles as when it was founded, 75 years ago. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] You guys are changing from year to year. For you, the hoofed devil, I'm talking about the Jobbik to be excluded from public life, who you've gone to protest that you can't be in parliament or anywhere else speaking about listing Jews or Jewish politicians. [[János Bencsik, Jobbik: Let's talk about our country.]] So you've gone out into the street in bulk, of course, compared to your scale, and now you're on the same stage and you're campaigning with them, honourable Member. This is what we call a hunger for power when the principle doesn't matter, it's not that you're now a dialogueist from LMP, who moved with the MSZP, and now campaigning with Jobbik, and later with DK. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] "With Ferenc Gyurcsány he will serve Ferenc Gyurcsány's power ambitions; this is a hunger for power, when nothing matters, but it hits where he sees the possibility of a political-power career faster. The principled politics that KDNP is pursuing is that the party was founded 75 years ago, but when the Arrowmen came or the Communists came, on the one hand, they took our leaders, on the other hand, our leaders also emigrated or retired. Now, that's exemplary for me, and policy in principle, in contrast to what you're saying. [[Bence Tordai and Peter Ungár intervene.]] Your relationship with reality, honourable Member: obviously you live in a media bubble and, of course, in your virtual world, you get a lot of virtual pats on the shoulders, but this is not so much, based on the results of the elections, on the opinion of the wider masses of people. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has iconically embodied your relationship with people and people's representatives at a time when he has landed three million people in Hungary, although this could also be when he has torn up the national consultation sheets here in Parliament. At the most important location of popular representation, people have the opportunity to express their views [[Intervention in the ranks of opposition parties: Manipulation! Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. László Szászfalvi: Listen to it!]] It has torn apart a symbolic national consultation sheet, so you here on the opposition side do not count the opinions of the people. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] it is being torn apart where people's opinions should have been represented, symbolically saying that it does not matter what people think, honourable Member. [[Intercoms.]] As far as education and knowledge is concerned, you like to say that the government is against education and knowledge. Your claim is so real, of course, only in quotes, that we only spend a lot more than 600 billion forints on public education and education. [[Bence of Turdai: What are you talking about? It's dropping all the time!]] As your allies have proposed in their last budget. In your opinion, it limits the freedom of scientific life to spend HUF 32 billion more on research and scientific activity next year. If you look at the budget lines for higher education, you can see that funding for higher education has increased by 43 percent. If you look at higher education wages, you see that higher education wages have increased by 27 percent. When you talk about how this bill is about breaking up education, which is on the agenda right now, honourable Member, this bill contains a large-scale salary increase for school principals, as there has been a wage increase along the educational career in Hungarian public education, a 50 percent wage increase, and now the directors can receive a high wage, as well as teachers who take more for the generation of the future can receive additional benefits. These surpluses are introduced by the amendment of the Public Education Act. If you would like to support the work of the school principals, please vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-02-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Ignác Semmelweis from the KDNP Group, entitled Mother's Savior, applied for a speech before the agenda by Mr István Simicskó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hippocrates said to look at people, not just the disease. As it is stated in the medical oath, when doctors pay attention, strengthen their healing ability to do their job, their profession, then the respect of people, of all people, surrounds their work. We Christian Democrats also have respect and respect for health care workers, doctors who have the ability to heal. Ignác Semmelweis looked at man, not just the disease; he looked at mothers, newborns, at an age when one in ten children, a young child, and his mother died prematurely. He sought the reasons, sought the answers to the whys, and, as Kolping put it, the great ability to recognize the troubles and give the good Lord the strength to remedy all this. Ignatius Semmelweis lived his life accordingly. This is the true human-centred, responsible attitude. The other question is that his contemporaries didn't understand, he got a bad deed, he didn't get recognition, he was put in a mental institution. But he knew exactly what we were doing down here, but our verdict is up there. Dear Parliament, Health is a great gift. It is believed that 90 percent of the diseases are caused by spiritual origin. If the soul gets sick, soon the body will follow. Let us also look at a slightly wider environment, remembering Ignác Semmelweis and stressing the importance of health; let us look at the problems of the world and, through it, at the problems and problems of Europe. We live in a rapidly changing world, which we often hear. In Noah's work Harari Sapiens, he says that if someone today tried to determine what our world is like today, what modern society is like today, we would find ourselves in a difficult situation like the chameleon, as it would be difficult to determine its function and characteristic. We live in a peaceful era, they say that for 70 to 75 years people have lived in peace. 58-60 million people finish their lives on earth every year. It's interesting to have a look out. There are always local conflicts and wars. Some 150-160,000 people die each year due to local conflicts and acts of war. Because of violent crimes, 550-600,000 people die. But the data that shows that every year the number of human beings is reduced by nearly a million, thanks to suicide, will end their lives in their own hands. As did II. Pope John Paul said that instead of life, many represent the culture of death. The latest news is that in virtual space, a young girl on a social networking portal voted to commit suicide or not, and was voted in favour. It's an incredible world. We could say that our world is sick. However, 80 percent of suicides are indeed Western civilization. This also shows that we have plenty to do in the field of healing, not only in health but also in the field of spiritual healing. About our Western civilization, we can see that he is in a spiritual crisis. Let me give you an example. In Germany, the number of believers in Germany has decreased from 31 million to less than 20 million over the last 25 years. Of course, in Russia, this has increased from 50 million to 115 million, with 82 percent of the Russian population claiming to be a believer, a Christian today. What we see in modern society is that the individual has become a valued, free, independent, but vulnerable, often lonely, alienated person. A new human image developed, a new religion: egoism. [[9.00]] Previously, history has shown that the family was almost everything: work, welfare, health care, taking care of the family, taking care of the old people, children reporting the pension fund, most people's needs were taken care of by the family. Today, the market is essentially taking care of it. In modern societies, the role and power of the market has been strengthened. We continue to see, Christian Democrats, that a man is strong and healthy when surrounded by a stable, supportive family, a nation is strong and healthy if it is made up of strong families; just as the European Union will be strong if it is made up of strong nations. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Christian Democratic People's Party will always be a supporting partner with the help of families, and I am pleased that the government is also pursuing this policy. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-02-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is indeed important for all of us to follow in the footsteps of Ignác Semmelweis, such as the savior of mothers, supporters of families, patrons of families, as well as healers, as doctors. I am pleased to say to you, honourable Member, that while there were 34,000 active doctors in Hungary at the beginning of our governance, this figure has now increased to 39 thousand, so this has been a rather high growth, an increase of nearly 5,000 doctors. One of the reasons for this is that while 1040 degrees were issued at medical universities in 2010, the last time 1521 degrees were issued at medical universities, 50 percent more, five hundred more medical and medical students graduated from universities each year and started their healing activities. This is important, since the prestige of the medical career is therefore even greater, and even more rising, not to mention that the prestige of Hungarian medical education is very high, not only within the country, but also in international rankings, so that, if you look at Semmelweis University, but in many cases the University of Pécs and the University of Debrecen are also very prominent, it is a credit to those who train the doctors of the future. We have tried to encourage as many people as possible with residency support programmes or wage increases, but obviously this is a profession, here the financials are an important part, but only one part of the choice of a medical profession. However, it is important, for example, if I look at the residency support program, that we have spent more than HUF 9 billion to increase the incomes of young doctors. For the nurses we have provided a HUF 4.4 billion framework for a career-choice scholarship to choose this career, this secondary education is chosen, and for those who want a higher education degree, we provide a scholarship of HUF 320-640 thousand per semester, with a total budget of HUF 1.8 billion. We hope that as many as possible can choose the medical and nursing profession. If you look at the amount of support for families in next year's budget, you will, of course, find an unprecedented record high amount, HUF 2228 billion, which is HUF 224 billion higher than this year's budget, among other things, because the measures of the Family Protection Action Plan are already included in the budget not only for six months, but for a full year. But there is also an additional source of funding for nursery care, as well as for the free children's meals and the discounted children's meals next year we will spend HUF 82 billion next year, which has never been spent by the government on social meals. So they all help families, which is why we can say that next year's budget is the budget of families and Hungarian families raising children. As I said, it is important in relation to the reputation of health workers that this should be reflected in wages. In 2012-13, the first health wage increase was a 27-percent surplus for both doctors and nurses, which we collected from chips tax and public health product tax, and we spent the total amount on health wage increases. This was followed by a number of subsequent increases in wages, for example, in the last two years we increased the net basic salary of doctors by HUF 107 and HUF 100 thousand, a total of HUF 207 thousand. In 2016, the nurses had a 26,5 percent wage increase, in 2017 there were 12 percent workers and nurses' wage increases, followed by an additional 8-8 percent in 2018 and this year. The government has already decided and will find in next year's budget coverage that the wage increase for nurses will continue, so it has not only increased in the previous three years, it will not only rise this year, but it will also increase in the next three years. [[It's constant noise.]] In this year and in the following years, the wages of the nurses will increase by 72 percent in 19 and 20, and in 21 and 22 respectively. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And if I translate this into concrete examples, then the nurse who was relatively at the beginning of her career and has a OKJ degree, she earned HUF 159 thousand at the beginning of our administration, and now she is earning HUF 324 thousand from 1 July instead of HUF 159 thousand, which is a very large increase, and this will rise to HUF 517 thousand by 2022. But who has more experience and earned 172 thousand forints as a nurse at the beginning of our administration, he now earns 361,000 forints from 1 July. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We would like to continue this work later. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-02-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to take your seats, try to be quiet, so we can continue our work without delay. Once again, I ask you to try to quiet down, take your seats. Dear Parliament, Mr László Böröcz of the Fidesz Group asked for an opportunity to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In history, it has been shown many times that the Visegrád countries, the Central European countries, could be truly successful when they cooperated, that they were able to strengthen economically and militaryly, and that they were able to remain independent when they cooperated. This cooperation, this cooperation, must be a natural state, because in many cases we have a history, problems in common, and interests in common. In fact, the cooperation of the Visegrád countries is natural and unnatural if we do not cooperate. It would therefore be appropriate and a good Hungarian-Romanian relationship is self-evident, a good Hungarian-Romanian cooperation, but this does not seem to be entirely the case. Romania has long been preparing to celebrate its 100th birthday, precisely to celebrate the 100th birthday of the Great Romania; which is certainly understandable from their point of view, but what is pleasure for one person is pain for another person. What meant to the Romanians was the enlargement of their country, the loss of Hungary of Transylvania and the dismemberment of the country, which is clearly not a celebration for us. It is in the parliamentary resolution on the year of national cohesion: the Trianon peace dictator has caused an unsolved political, economic, legal and psychological problem; this is obvious to everyone in this House, but only a small sect denies it. Unfortunately, however, the anniversary of Trianon seems to bring out the worst in Romanian politics. It began with the case of the military cemetery in Uzvölgy, before which one is completely confused: a Romanian mayor who is otherwise not territorially competent wants to turn this cemetery into a Romanian memorial place without any Romanian soldiers resting there. This is the issue on which the Romanian ambassador in Budapest has failed to comply with his appointment in an unprecedented manner and has refused to engage in dialogue. The Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs then issued a communication on the year of national integration, which says no less nonsense than that Trianon opened the way for the birth of the Hungarian nation state. It's about a sentence like when you get your limbs amputated, and the doctor pats you in the back that you won't have any problems with your limbs anymore. A few days ago, two pro-government senators drew up a draft once again in the trash basket, which would make 4 June a holiday in the Trianon Treaty. The draft law would empower the state and local authorities to celebrate Trianon and oblige public service media to report on this. [[9.10]] These are the two senators who believe that people who spread anti-Romanian ideas should be put in jail for up to three years, which means whatever it is. Dear House, Unfortunately, the situation seems that anti-Hungarian emotions reach the highest level of Romanian political life. Everybody loses. Hungarians in Transylvania lose, Romania and Hungary lose, and Central Europe as a whole loses. That is why it is important that we stop this process now, at the beginning. We have a good Hungarian-Romanian relationship in our interest from an economic point of view, in terms of political interest, but above all from the point of view of Transylvanian Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2019-07-02-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, He is right when he says that we Central Europeans can be strong and that we can best enforce our interests if we can work together and work together, so one of the most important objectives of Hungarian foreign policy is to continuously develop Central European cooperation and maintain Central European cooperation. The positive effects of this have been visible, and we can see how the Visegrad Group, for example, has been able to act unitedly, effectively and strongly on issues where some major European countries have thought that it is enough to discuss among themselves how they shape even the issues considered to be the most important for the future of the European Union. However, if Central Europeans speak with one voice, speak with the same voice, act with one voice, then they can enforce their will beyond their own power. Therefore, we have always sought and sought effective and pragmatic cooperation with Romania based on mutual respect, and, of course, this will be the case in the future. It is not a very sophisticated claim, but it is true that the better the relationship between the mother country and the country where the community is located is the better for a given Hungarian community. Therefore, we have always sought good cooperation with our neighbouring countries, where large Hungarian national communities live. As regards Romania, there was also a temporary phase in which we were able to report positively positive developments, since, for example, the reopening of the Roman Catholic Lyceum would not have been possible if there had not been a pragmatic dialogue with the Romanian party based on mutual interests and respect. However, after the temporary positive processes and results, the anti-Hungarian sounds and anti-Hungarian outbursts have now been strengthened in the Romanian political elite. This is obviously unacceptable, but action must be taken. Hungarian foreign policy cannot remain silent, and when questions about Romania are raised in international forums, the Hungarian position cannot be independent of these anti-Hungarian outbursts and anti-Hungarian provocations. I have to tell you that, in relation to the military cemetery in Uzvölgy, we find the insubordination unacceptable, since according to current expert opinions, the bodies of at least 20 Hungarian soldiers above which the Romanians have raised concrete crosses are found in this cemetery. This is obviously an insult, it is obviously unacceptable, and obviously this state of abuse must be abolished. But we also find it at least as unacceptable that, following the brutality in the cemetery, not those who have committed aggressive crimes in the videos and pictures have been punished, but those Hungarian officials who organised peaceful demonstrations and peaceful commemorations, as the decisions and fines against Csaba Borboly, Chairman of the Harghita County Council, Róbert Grüman, Vice President of the Covasna County Council are obviously unacceptable. We expect the Romanian authorities to punish those responsible and to stop the destruction of peaceful memorialists, especially on a national basis. However, we also find it unacceptable, honourable Member, honourable Members, that administrative law adopted recently by the Romanian Government, which will put Romania back about ten years in terms of minority rights, since it does not only lack the minority rights that have been negotiated at the parliamentary stage under the leadership of the RMDSZ, but also contains significant steps backwards in relation to minority rights. The so-called rights acquired are virtually ignored, so the new Romanian administrative law is contrary to bilateral obligations and, moreover, to European standards that concern respect for already acquired minority rights. And I would also like to bring here, honourable Member, that we find it unacceptable that the Hungarian faculty of the University of Medicine and Pharmacy in Târgu Mures could not have been established until today, which was established by law in Romania. So, at present, there is a breach of law, the inadequacy of which has always been openly spoken of. We support the efforts of the RMDSZ; we support the efforts of the RMDSZ to ensure that the Hungarians have acquired their rights [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Respect Romania. Thank you for raising this subject here today. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the benches of MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-07-02-28	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. We will now continue our work with decisions. I would ask you to check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machines. Dear Parliament, The election of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights by secret ballot follows. Allow me to pay tribute to the candidate of the President of the Republic, Mr. Ákos Kozma and his invited guests, the permanent guests of the Parliament and all our dear guests. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the Jobbik benches. Dr. Ákos Kozma stands up and bows.]] The mandate of Commissioner Dr. László Székely expires on 25 September 2019. President János Áder, in his transcript of 28 June 2019, proposed that the Parliament elect Dr. Ákos Kozma as Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Sustainable Development and the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary have heard and supported the candidate's election. Resolutions of the Committees on this matter S/6668/1/2/3. can be found on the House's IT network on the website. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that, pursuant to Article 1 (2) (e) of the Fundamental Law and Article 30 (3), the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights shall be elected by Parliament for six years by the vote of two thirds of the Members. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is currently 197. Under the provisions of the Act on Parliament, the candidate shall be elected by secret ballot. The candidate shall be elected by Parliament with effect from 26 September 2019. Dear House, The secret ballot process is as follows. The congressional ladies and gentlemen can take the ballot in the Danube corridor in alphabetical order according to the names of the Members, in four groups. I would like to inform you that in the sectors, you can receive a piece of ballot paper and an envelope. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. [[9.20]] I ask you to use the polling booths at the end of the corridor during the vote. I ask you that on the ballot paper, the "yes" and "no" [[Several Members stand up.]] I would ask my fellow Members to remain in their seats, because there will still be an important announcement, and to place their nomination in the box of my stay. I now ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to briefly explain the rules of the vote, and once again, my fellow Members, with respect, to remain in their seats and listen to the notary's announcement. Here you go, notary.
u2019-07-02-29	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. The valid vote shall be deemed only to be what was cast on the candidate on the ballot-paper, with two incandescent lines placed in squares next to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. The vote not cast on the official ballot paper, which lacks the stamp, or if the vote sheet is taken by the Member but not thrown into the ballot box is void. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will include it and replace it with a new card.
u2019-07-02-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear House, During the voting period, only Members and members of the working group involved in the vote shall be allowed to remain in the Danube corridor of the Chamber. I declare that 40 minutes are available for the cast of votes. Since it is now 9:22 p.m., the vote will be taken accordingly for 40 minutes. [[Several Members stand up.]] My fellow Members, I will make an important announcement, so I ask that everyone remain in place, so it will be possible for 10 hours and 02 minutes. I am now ordering a 60-minute break for the duration of the secret vote and evaluation, and I ask my fellow Members to remove their cards from the voting machine and take them with them. (Sunning: 9.23 10.24 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and György Szilágyi)
u2019-07-02-31	Ladies and gentlemen, Place your cards in the voting machines. Dear Parliament, I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. He found that 179 Members participated in the secret ballot. The notaries concluded that the voting procedure was valid and effective for the candidate. On the person of Dr. Ákos Kozma, 179 representatives cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes is 2, the number of valid votes is 177, the number of votes is 137 [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] , the number of non-votes 39 and the number of votes remaining 1. On this basis, the Parliament elected Dr. Ákos Kozma as Commissioner of Fundamental Rights with effect from 26 September 2019. Dear Parliament, A solemn oath of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights will now be given and the oath will be signed. I ask Dr. Ákos Kozma to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the text of the oath, and I would ask the Honourable Parliament to hear it standing up as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Ákos Kozma steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2019-07-02-32	I, Ákos Kozma, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my position as Commissioner of Fundamental Rights for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2019-07-02-33	Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I ask Mr. Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and Mr. Ákos Kozma to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Ákos Kozma and gives a copy of the signed oath document. To Dr. Ákos Kozma first, Máté Kocsis, then László Kövér, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Péter Harrach, Gergely Gulyás, Dr. Imre Vejkey, Péter Jakab, Imre Ritter and Lóránt László Kösztes.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish Dr. Ákos Kozma effective work and good luck [[Dr. Ákos Kozma: Thank you very much.]] I would also like to thank our guests for their presence on the agenda. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Once again, please take your seats, check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2013 CCXXXII on the amendment of certain public education laws and the provision of national public education textbooks. T/6457. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6457/13. and the summary report by T/6457/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the extension of Amendment 3 and 5 and the Group of the LMP proposed that Amendment 7 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. In Amendment 3, Member Bence Tordai and Mrs Krisztina Hohn and his fellow Members put forward the same content in Amendment 7. The factions have initiated the continuation of both motions, so we will decide on them with one decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain these proposals. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendments by 56 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Congressman Bence Tordai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/6457/13. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstentions. [[10.30]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the house rules are 51. Pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Act, the author initiated the postponement of the final vote. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before making a decision, I would like to ask Mr Bence Rétvári, as rapporteur, to speak on this matter. [[On Dr. Bence Rétvári's mark:]] He doesn't want to. [[Gergely Harvestó: We'd like to know! A statement from the opposition: Wow, that's brave.]] Dear Parliament, It's up to you to make a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to postpone the T/6457. The final vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament postponed the final vote on the proposal by 180 votes in favour, 4 votes against and without abstentions. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] Dear Parliament, Next up is H/6454 on the number of positions that can be organised at the Hungarian Defence Office. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/6454. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 133 votes to 49, with four abstentions. It follows that H/6354 is hereby authorised to station armed forces in Hungary in the United States of America. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of the proposal for a resolution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present under Article 47 (2). I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/6354. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 162 votes in favour, 3 against and 19 abstentions. We now have T/6212 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of Members' immunity. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. In this connection, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6212. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 153 votes in favour, 26 against and 3 abstentions. Dear House, We are now deciding on the parts of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6212. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 153 votes in favour, 27 against and 3 abstentions. It follows that T/6295 on the postponement of the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Courts. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6295. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] [[10.40]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 187 votes in favour, not without a vote and without abstention. We are now deciding on the parts of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6295. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 187 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. Dear House, Following is the T/6361 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2020. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6361/15 and T/6361/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 8. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 8 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt Group leader and his associates. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The LMP Group proposed that Amendment 8 be maintained. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 8 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt Group leader and his associates. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes, 131 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/6361/15 of the Fidesz Group A separate vote was initiated on point 66 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then on the point requested for a separate vote, and then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on point 34 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6361/15. Point 34 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes, 28 votes and 28 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 66 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, as requested by a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6361/15. Point 66 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 131 votes, 25 votes and 31 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6361/15. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 131 votes, 31 votes against and 25 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6361/19. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes, 36 votes against and 19 abstentions. Dear House, We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6361/19. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 131 votes, 36 votes against and 19 abstentions. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/6355 on the amendment of certain laws relating to media services follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6355/22, and T/6355/23. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3, 4 and 12. We'll vote on these first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes, 131 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Mr Szilágyi György. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 yeses, 129 votes not, without abstention. Amendment 12 is also proposed by Mr Szilágyi György. A qualified majority is required to maintain it. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 yeses, 130 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 5 to 10, 13, 15 to 19, 21, 23 to 37, 39 to 41, 43 to 45, 48 and 49, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. [[10.50]] First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6355/22. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 131 yes, 56 no votes, without abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6355/22. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment requiring a simple majority 130 yes, 57 no votes, without abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6355/25. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority 131 yes, 56 not by vote and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6355/25. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority 131 yes, 56 not by vote and without abstention. Dear Parliament, The T/6350 on the modification of individual laws in relation to the protection of the built and natural environment and the protection of cultural heritage follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6350/8. No. 6350/9 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the House that the house rules are set at 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/6350/8. A separate vote was initiated on point 20 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then on the point requested for a separate vote, and then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on point 13 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6350/8. Point 13 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted 153 yes points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment, 34 votes against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 20 of the summarised amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6350/8. Point 20 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the amendment point 131 yes, 51 with no vote and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6350/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment proposal with 129 yes, 34 non-voting and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6350/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority were adopted by the Parliament with 131 yes, 34 no votes and 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6350/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority were adopted by the Parliament with 131 yes, 34 no votes and 22 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, It follows that T/6343 on encouraging long-term shareholder engagement and amending certain laws for harmonisation purposes. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6343/17. T/6343/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the LMP Group, amendments 5, 6 and 7 were proposed to be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is the motion of our fellow Members Erzsébet Schmuck and Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment with 59 votes and 127 votes, without abstention. Amendment 6 is also proposed by our fellow Members Erzsébet Schmuck and Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment with 56 votes and 131 with no abstentions. Amendment 7 is the motion of our fellow Members Erzsébet Schmuck and Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] [[11.00]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 37, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6343/17. Point 37 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 153 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. Since we now have to decide on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority, I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6343/17. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 153 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the final vote follows. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6343/19. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 33 against and 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6343/19. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 131 votes in favour, 34 against and 22 abstentions. Dear House, It follows that T/6359 on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the restructuring of the institutional system and funding of the research, development and innovation system. on the proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1 [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Where is the minister? Shame! Some of the representatives of MSZP, DK, LMP, Dialogue and independent representatives wear a T-shirt with the word MORE THEN ACADEMY.]] decision and final vote. T/6359/8. and a summary report by T/6359/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 was proposed by István Hiller, Tamás Mellár and Ágnes Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 131 against and 3 abstentions. [[Intercoms from the opposition, among them: Shame, shame, you have no idea! Shame on you!]] Dear House, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/6359/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 131 votes to 53, with three abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6359/10. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 53 against and 3 abstentions. [[A statement from the opposition: Shame on you!]] We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6359/10. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 131 votes in favour, 53 against and 3 abstentions. [[Gergely Harvesto: Shame on you! Science killers!]] It is now up to the Court of First Instance that, in order to ensure that the procedures relating to the application for a baby shower allowance and to the granting of car support for large family members are free of charge, XCIII of 1990 on fees. on the amendment of the Act [[A statement from Jobbik: You should be proud of that!]] T/6684. Final vote of bill No 1. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in accordance with our decision yesterday, the bill is being discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6684. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's bill by 182 votes in favour, with 1 abstention [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] He accepted without a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. We are now taking a two-minute technical break in order to allow my fellow Members who wish to leave the Chamber to leave. [[It's a short break.]] [[11.10]] I ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that we can continue our work. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on the amendment of certain laws relating to the reduction of young people's smoking and the protection of non-smokers until closure. Presentation by our fellow Member, Mr János Lázár Fidesz, T/6576. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. First, I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-34	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/6576. I have tabled a proposal to my fellow Members to contribute to the amendment of certain laws relating to the reduction of smoking of minors and the protection of non-smokers. I ask this in such a way that today the Parliament will hold a general debate, and the committee will be able to negotiate in the autumn session. Given that the proposal concerns EU legislation, it is therefore possible, after ratification of the European Union, for Parliament to express its final position on the issue. I would also like and look forward to the comments and suggestions made by my fellow Members on the proposal, the most important message of which is that in this House all political parties in Parliament should agree on one issue, and that, in the foreseeable future, Hungary will become, as far as possible, the first country of the European Union to become smoke-free. I am campaigning and working to convince my fellow Members that this is particularly important, and I urge my fellow Members, regardless of their party standing, to set the objective of achieving smoke-free Hungary for themselves in the next period. Why do I think this is important? Before addressing the essential points of the presentation, allow me to ask you a few questions about the current situation beyond the smoke-free goal of Hungary and to recommend some considerations for consideration. The first such thing, which is so often debated in this House during interpellation or the negotiation of salad laws, is a series of demographic issues, which is closely linked to smoke-freeness. As known to my fellow Members, in 2018, 130,000 people died in Hungary, some 20-22 thousand of whom were our countrymen who lost their lives or died because of smoking, which is a huge loss for all of us. It is visible to my fellow members of government and opposition that the government, the executive power, is mobilising resources to try to increase birth numbers. In Hungary, between 90 and 92 thousand children are born in recent years, and about 130 thousand die in an ever increasing number. Removing the difference between the two seems almost impossible, as we hope to increase the number of children by a few thousand at the cost of a hundred billion a year. It would be a huge achievement if we could achieve 95-96 thousand children in this cycle, but there are demographers who are pessimistic about the effectiveness of this measure. Unfortunately, there is little mention that 130,000 of our countrymen die on the other side, and surely there are at least ten thousand of our countrymen, confirmed by government investigations between 2010 and 14 who lose their lives or lose their lives prematurely or in the absence of a legitimate reason. I am thinking that smoking, living with smoke and non-smoking people are among the high risks. I would like to tell my fellow Members that in one year there are about 30-35,000 of our 130,000 lost countrymen who die of cancer, and at least 10,000 of them are victims of lung cancer. I would also like to say that in Hungary, in order to reverse demographic trends, we need to pay particular attention to the situation of three cancers, lung cancer, colon cancer and breast cancer, given that in all cancer deaths these three tumors give three quarters of the cause of death. Therefore, if Hungary were able to achieve what Western European states have already done, whether through the social security system or through the tax system, it would encourage employers to participate in screening and early recognition of cancers, not only would birth numbers be increased by financial intervention, but the number of deaths could also be reduced. There is one reason that today leads to an unquestioned tumor, which is smoking, whether for smokers or non-smokers. If you are watching, fellow Members, that today in Hungary in 2018 and 19 we have to count on 50,000 of our countrymen who are sick of cancer, 30-35 thousand people die of cancer each year, so more than 50 percent of cancer patients face such prospects, you will understand the enormous exposure that this figure, 10,000 lung cancer deaths per year, represents in the country. They also understand that passion, the passion for smoking, which might be given up, and encouraging our partners to resign or defend ourselves by representing the interests of non-smokers, can help us to reverse the trend. However, our situation is not easy, given that, according to recent research and surveys, two and a half million people smoke in Hungary, our two and a half million compatriots smoked 7 billion 600 million cigarettes last year, endangering their health and environment, and spent 700 billion forints at national level. This year, the amount spent on cigarettes will not be less than HUF 700 billion, the amount that our Hungarian compatriots spend on cigarettes or products like cigarettes. For economic policymen, I note that one of the consequences of a 10% net wage increase is that the consumption of expensive cigarettes has increased over the last year, so some of our constituents spend their increased income on more expensive cigarettes, thus, of course, increasing tax revenues and retail turnover and putting themselves and the environment at serious risk. These figures, I think, well show that it is a serious social problem that we have to face, even if 38 percent of the adult population declared themselves to be an active smoker in Hungary in 2009, in the last year of socialist governance. Last year, according to WHO and Eurobarometer research, the number of active smokers was 25-27 percent. So we have achieved results from 2010 to 2019 in ten years, although it is part of the objective picture that the consumption of traditional tobacco products is falling by 2 percent per year across the European Union. The Hungarian steps did not trigger the WHO's attention by accident, given that they deserve recognition. [[11.20]] According to WHO and Eurobarometer research in 2016, men who died died, 27 percent died from smoking and 14 percent died from smoking in women. The question is whether this is measureable to some extent. And here I am turning to economic considerations in addition to consumption, because it is no small amount of money for 700 billion forints. In fact, when considering homemade pálinka, our fellow citizens spend almost more on cigarettes than on alcohol. The Hungarians spend less than 100 billion forints on burnt alcohol; they cook the brandy at home and drink it. In addition, they spend 700 billion forints on tobacco. So the amount that our compatriots spend on destroying themselves is not small, thinking that destroying myself is one of the most important freedoms, but I will explain how much our fellow voters are right on this issue. Is there any way to measure the loss? Dear House, Mr President, Loss can be measured: in the United States of America and in the Western world, they try to measure lost human life, in some way the lost human being, trying to give the lost healthy years an objective measure. I would rather say that if we take into account the budgetary impact of tobacco-related diseases, the Hungarian budget must spend at least HUF 150-200 billion within the health fund in order to alleviate the harm caused by smoking. If I look at the amount of sick money, the amount of disability pensions, the social consequences of the disease, or how much employers lose, for example, because of early cancer, then we can see exactly what tax revenue comes from cigarettes, tobacco products on the excise duty page, the much more we lose from the health register, and the much more employers lose by making workers sick. So if we want to reduce the mortality rate in Hungary, in addition to increasing the number of births, there are some diseases against which I think it would be worth taking effective, successful action in this government cycle. On the other hand, if we are to help employers, we must encourage workers to participate in screening programmes through a contribution incentive, i.e. even by encouraging the employer's contribution. What is the most important objective of the Hungarian government in the field of health, which is usually only a political debate in the House, but we can see little progress in practice? Our most important objective is not only to make more money for hospitals, but our most important objective is to increase the number of years spent in health. Today, in Western Europe, in the 27 Member States of the European Union, a man to the west of us can expect that he does not need to see a doctor until he is 63, and a woman does not need to see a doctor until he is 65. In Hungary, a man can expect to see a doctor when he is 58 years old, so the loss is five years. I am not talking about life expectancy at birth, I am talking about the years in health that smoking can destroy most, either because of cardiovascular or cancer, and in the case of women, 62 years is the age when it is necessary to seek serious medical attention first. If we can make progress in this in the coming years, we have done something for demography, not only on the birth side, but also to reduce mortality or disease. Not to mention what I just mentioned about the magnitude of the loss of hundreds of billions of dollars to the health register and society with these steps. What I would like to talk to you about before I get to the point of my proposal: how can the number be established that the number of active smokers goes down from 38 percent to 27 percent? It is even more interesting that Eurobarometer has conducted research among 13 and 15-year-olds on how many have tried cigarettes at 13-15 years of age, how many are occasional smokers and how many are regular smokers at 13 and 15. He concluded that the total number of teenagers who rejected smoking in Hungary was 58 percent in 2010, today 74 percent of the young people surveyed absolutely refuse to smoke, do not try it, do not smoke casually, do not want to smoke, do not want to deal with this issue. So 20 percent more than before. During the teens, the number of smokers regularly decreased by 10 percent: from 30 percent to 20 percent, which is a huge step forward within a certain age group section. What steps have led to this relative good result, and what further steps do we need to take? I have received a mandate from the Prime Minister to go around this issue, and for this reason I am applying with the bill to ask for the support of this House. The first such step, which led to the results, is encouraging if cigarettes are ever more expensive. Since 2010, Hungary has been pursuing a excise duty policy that consciously increases the cost of cigarettes and tobacco products. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members here to the fact that cigarettes are relatively expensive in Hungary compared to neighbouring EU countries: cigarettes are cheaper in Slovakia, for example, cigarettes are cheaper in Croatia. The reason for this is that the Hungarian excise duty burden is high, and on the other hand VAT, which is 27 percent VAT, makes cigarettes more expensive. One of the medicines that we can take against smoking is to make cigarettes more expensive, although I would add, given that, fortunately, the bench is sitting on this side of a large number of my fellow individual Members, they can experience that among our low-income constituents, where there is a high willingness to smoke, we are regularly called to account of the rules against smoking and are regularly called on to account of the cost of smoking. So we are talking about a very sensitive issue, because two and a half million of our constituents smoke on a daily basis, which is never forgotten. But one of these important steps was the continuous increase in excise duty. The second was at least such an important issue in 2011, when the Parliament decided with overwhelming support and majority support, with the support of opposition parties, to ban smoking in entertainment venues, restaurants, playgrounds, workplaces, closed air in Hungary. You can follow the debate on how this was a matter of political storm in Austria, one of the important questions of the previous government was how to limit smoking. In Hungary, I believe that the conditions of going to the restaurant have changed substantially since there was no smoking. The Parliament has taken a very successful step with this, and it is time to take account after eight years of the fact that sometimes good things are born in this House. Usually, of course, but sometimes, especially good things are born in this House. Last time, a study was carried out that pregnant mothers who work as waitresses in restaurants are in a state of health, and there is a spectacular difference between the state of health of a pregnant mother, a still working waitress or a restaurant employee and the state of health of a pregnant mother who used to work at a smoking place. So that's radically visible in eight years. Another such decision was the so-called tobacco trade measure for the protection of minors in the summer of 2011, which entered into the history of politics and trade in Hungary under the name of a trade law. My fellow Members wanted to use this topic in two election campaigns, but in 2014 and 2018, the political community of Fidesz received two-thirds support, and we are sitting here in Parliament with two-thirds, so that is probably not the decisive motive. What is important, however, is two aspects of the Traffic Act. I mean, what really happened to 22,000 people applying for a trade-concession? In the last thirty years of the European Union, Hungary was the first and the only one to successfully reconfigure the retail and wholesale trade of an excise product after the European Union's infringement procedure, with several submissions being examined by the Constitutional Court, so that the European Court of Human Rights also examined the issue, and we were faced with several parliamentary elections when this legislation was drawn up. Remember, fellow Members, that the main purpose of the decision was to prevent minors from buying cigarettes. What was the general before 1 July 2013? A young man went to Tesco on Saturday night and was served without any restrictions. The fact that smoking has decreased in Hungary is directly related to the fact that access has been reduced, under controlled and controlled conditions, cigarettes can be bought in Hungary in decreasing numbers. There's less to sell. Before July 2013, there were 40,000 places to buy cigarettes, today in Hungary there are 5300 places to buy cigarettes, under fully controlled conditions. I am sure that this has a deterrent effect, and I do not deny it, and I am proud to say that the 700 billion forints that our countrymen spent on cigarettes were spent in multinationals. And now the 10 per cent profit of this 700 billion HUF goes to domestic retailers, i.e. we were able to give 70 billion HUF in the transformation of a market that was passed over to the multinationals after 1990, because the multi-party sold most of the cigarettes, and we did nothing less than restrict access to cigarettes, and we also changed the structure of the market. I think that this decision has affected everything that has happened in recent years, not only in political terms, because it has become a major political debate, but also in terms of trade regulation. What my fellow Members need to know today is that all cigarettes sold in trams are marked, each box of cigarettes and every aid is marked. These machines were first connected to the NAV, so all the traffic in the trucks was fully controlled. Not to be bored by my fellow Members, I note that we have also created existentialities, as 33 percent of the tramps have a turnover of HUF 60 million a year, with revenues of approximately HUF 90 million to HUF 180 million at about 50 percent and revenues in the middle band, between HUF 60 million and HUF 90 million at the remainder. [[11.30]] We claim no less than that a tramp can support a four-membered family in a medium-sized or smaller settlement, and not Tesco or SPAR will carry out the money that our constituents spend on it. I think it's a crucial question in this matter, too. Therefore, smoking should be banned, and I will tell you at the end how it should be done, but until we can ban smoking, I believe that the state must keep the market under full control; we must strive to ensure that if our fellow voters buy cigarettes and we cannot talk them out of it, we cannot convince them that the spent forints will possibly increase the Hungarian budget or migrate to Hungarian entrepreneurs while traditional smoking lasts for the next decades. As a next step, in 2014, we transformed the tobacco wholesale supply system by drawing on two infringement procedures in at least a similar EU debate. Previously, multinational companies were involved in the retail trade and in highly intensive advertising activities. The key point of the whole transformation is that cigarette advertising is strictly prohibited in Hungary today. Not only is it harder for young people to access it, but it is strictly forbidden to campaign with cigarettes. Among the world's largest advertisers is Philip Morris, who takes over countries, governments, powers, economic operators and the market to bring his old and new products into the world. I would add that in the 27 EU Member States, no one has made such a profound transformation to multinational enterprises as our majority in Parliament, and I would add that this was our most successful step in the transformation of retail systems. Poland has won the EU legal procedure for the introduction of a special retail tax last week. Unfortunately, we have backed down on this, but I hope that the government will consider the possibility of reintroducing special taxes and reguling multinationals, not just in the area of smoking. In 2014, we built the retail trade and successfully developed it. I remember everyone in the 2014 articles feared that the country would not be supplied, so what would happen to the 2.5 million smokers. Today there are 5300 trade concessions in Hungary, the 5300 concessions cover 99 percent of the country. We have about 100,000 of the 8 million adult voters who find it more difficult to obtain tobacco products, but most of them live in small settlements of between 50 and 150 people, which they need to see exactly, but the country has also been provided by the legislator, and wholesale trade takes place in a digitised, electronically trackable form. In 2016, the government moved on, as it also included certain additional elements of e-cigarettes and tobacco products in tobacco retail trade, and even banned flavoured cigarettes and snapping cigarettes in 2017. Here I would like to make a comment to my fellow Members. One of the major debates over the next ten years in the field of smoking will be the fact that old traditional tobacco products, cigarettes, are in the runway. In the Western world, where public health and healthy years of life count, they will lead out the old type of cigarettes for the next 20 years, and it will be expected that e-cigi and new types of tobacco products will come up. By buying politicians, multinational companies campaign that these new types of tobacco do not cause lung cancer. Obviously, the first part of what I have to say is how important this is in Hungary, for example, as regards death and public health. I would also be very protective of the Government and of the parliamentary majority and of my fellow opposition Members from the fact that this multinational talk is being licked by anyone. No research proves that these new types of tobacco products or e-cigarettes are less dangerous for a healthy life. The United States government does not accept Philip Morris' argument and is trying to reduce and prohibit these tobacco products in a complex way. It will be a very big question to allow them to be marketed, try to control them, try to ban them and squeeze them out, or we will be like traditional cigarettes 100 to 150 years ago, because, remember, mankind has lived for thousands of years without smoking, only in the last 100 to 150 years has cigarettes become a mass product, primarily due to marketing, advertising and the development of a new way of life, alcohol consumption and consumption of cigarettes have grown radically in the welfare societies of the last 100 to 150 years. In 2018, we introduced the monitoring system, which has been in place since 2019, and I am now proposing to my fellow Members to change these laws, although I would add that the legislative tests of the rule of law have been passed and are therefore a single, complex system. I would like to ask for the support of my fellow Members for fine-tuning and I would like to recommend preparing the move forward. Fine-tuning is the need to tighten up on a number of issues. For example, the customs authorities are examining the tobaccos; that is what the proposal is about. We need to determine when to take away the right to concession, for example, if they serve three minors, we need to determine when to impose a mandatory fine. We need to change how many people are obliged to issue a concession. Today, the concession number is 3000 people/pieces in Hungary, and I would like it to be 4,000 persons/pieces in order to ensure that the number of Trafiks is constantly reduced in terms of today's concession rights, without prejudice to today's concessions, because I am inconvincible and determined to take out traditional tobacco products for the next 20 years. One way to do this is to limit access. At least as important, e-cigarettes, new types of tobacco products, ancillary products, advertising activities should be prohibited, restricted and introduced into the entire state-owned, tax-controlled traffiks. I would also like to say that I would like to see all the aids, all the additional instruments, for e-cigarettes that promise nicotine-free, to be traded in a controlled and controlled manner, and that there would be a ban on people under 18 years of age, so that it would not be possible to serve under 18. I proposed to amend the rules on indirect advertising in the submission of the law in order to prevent individual tobacco companies from circumventing the loopholes. So I also think it is important that strict rules should apply to losing the trafic process, strict rules should apply to real retribution to the rule of law if a person serves a minor. The Trafican Association of Interest has initiated facilitations that concern the rules of succession in particular; this is specifically dealt with in the bill, as I am asking for your support and participation in the negotiation of the salad law. This concerns the fact that individual entrepreneurs have won concessions, they want to transform into bt., I want to make inheritance rules easier, and I would like to extend the deadline for the succession procedure from one to two years, given that a concession law constitutes a serious asset in the life of a family. I think it is in our interest to support this family and to provide these facilitations; just as it is important for the Traficians to have exactly what they can sell in the Trafics. I do not recommend radical facilitations; I do not recommend opening the gate; it contains precise provisions concerning the range of products that can be sold and the opening hours. The whole package of provisions that I have put before you is of a decisive precision and grinding nature, but it does not change the basic concept, but it does contain provisions of a more restrictive nature, for which I am in any way asking the support of my fellow Members. There is an opportunity for you to take part in the debate, an opportunity to submit amendments, which I am ready to consider, and I welcome all initiatives. I put a package of measures on the Prime Minister's desk and on the government's table, one point of which is this. There are other points, as I suggest considering how to limit smoking. For example, smoking in a motor vehicle; for example, the prohibition and question of smoking in common areas of the condominiums among my fellow Members of the KDNP has been raised, which would give rise to another parliamentary debate; and there are also a number of other measures, one of which was the proposal of society and political opinion to withdraw the right for those born after 2020 to serve them in the trade fairs at the age of 18, i.e. in 2038; then 18-year-olds should simply not be allowed to buy cigarettes. I believe that, sooner or later, due to economic and demographic considerations, the government will have no choice but to contribute to this, to support this step. I understand debates that are essentially about the rule of law or fundamental rights, about whether a person has the right to destroy himself; whether by birth I have the right to put my health at risk, risk my life and, where appropriate, reach for cigarettes or drink alcohol. It is difficult to override this right, the only thing overrides it: the right of others to a healthy life. Of course, we can't save anyone from themselves, but I think we all have a stronger right to live healthy than the right of our fellow human beings to destroy themselves and put us in danger. I ask my fellow Members to consider all these points of the proposal, and thank you very much for letting me inform you of the importance of this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.40]]
u2019-07-02-35	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if you would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-07-02-36	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, The priority of government policy is the preservation of a healthy environment and the promotion of a healthy lifestyle. We consider improving the quality of life to be a fundamental objective. It is of particular importance to develop, strengthen and safeguard the health awareness of young people. One of the means of achieving these long-term objectives is to restrict the access of tobacco products to minors and to protect non-smokers, pregnant women and patients, while respecting privacy rights, as it is the duty of the State to grant constitutional rights to a healthy environment. With all this in mind, we have examined the T/6576 on the amendment of certain laws tabled by Mr János Lázár, Member of Parliament, concerning the reduction of smoking of minors and the protection of non-smokers. Bill No. 1. In order to support the health preservation of citizens, in response to new tobacco-related trends on the market since 2012, we agree and consider its support, in order to strengthen, clarify and supplement the rules governing them. The bill contains the transposition of the practical experience of the six years since the entry into force of the Traffic Act into the legislative environment and clarifies the text of the law for a number of details, tightening them up in some places. The provisions on fines are clearly tightened, making the application of the fine mandatory in several cases in the event of infringements. In the future, advertising of tobacco products would remove the possibility of high-profile advertising of complementary products linked to tobacco and tobacco products, which also serves to protect non-smokers. The proposal covers the regulation of e-cigarettes on the market, all forms of which will be sold only in tobacco shops in the future. It is of particular importance that the filling fluid of the e-cigarette is converted into an excise product, which also requires the amendment of the excise duty law. The proposal sets out a switch from a self-employed to a form of partnership with unlimited liability. It creates the possibility of a minimum expansion of the supply of goods, but it continues to strictly separate the Trafiks from the grocery stores. The bill also amends the relevant provisions on the concession entitlements that can be applied for. It raises the threshold for the concession to be granted from 3000 to 4000. These provisions, as the Member pointed out, apply only for the future, the proposed legislation does not intend to take away the concession awarded. The proposal strengthens the legal requirements of all previous invitations to tender for the unlimited liability of the concession holder for the operation of the company, while at the same time allowing for a modification of the concession contract. The proposal remedys the adverse consequences of prolonged succession proceedings that heirs have often not been able to declare their intention to pursue the concession within the one-year limitation period, except for their own failure. In the future, two years will be available as an objective limitation period. The proposal also does not allow individual entrepreneurs, like companies, to carry out activities which are not closely linked to tobacco retail concession activities, to standardise. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal to amend certain laws relating to the reduction of smoking of minors and the protection of non-smokers is clearly aimed at promoting the preservation of the health of citizens, and I therefore ask that, taking into account the social and economic reasons set out in detail by the Member, you discuss the bill carefully and then support it. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-02-37	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Barcza. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As you remember, the National Assembly adopted CXXXIV on reducing the smoking of young people and on the retail trade in tobacco products in autumn 2011. a law aimed at protecting people under the age of 18 and at giving tobacco retail to Hungarian businesses instead of multi-companies. Despite the fact that the provisions of the Traffic Act have stood the test of time, both the tobacco retail system and the results of the central tobacco supply system, EU and domestic disputes have confirmed the legality of the measure that it was necessary to collect and analyse practical experience and, as a result, to draw up the proposed legislation. Experience in recent years has fundamentally demonstrated the correct idea that new and more stringent measures should be taken to protect non-smokers and to reduce underage smoking, in respect of which the T/6576 in front of you is the T/6576. A number of forward-looking provisions are included in the bill amending certain laws relating to the reduction of smoking by minors and the protection of non-smokers. Dear House, In recent years, the use of electrical cigarettes among smokers has been widespread. Therefore, the sale of e-cigarette and the use of filling fluid has also increased. The main problem is that, on the basis of statistical data, between 70 and 80 percent of e-cigarette users order electric cigarettes and various liquids from illegal, black trading websites abroad. This process is largely contrary to the government's efforts to reduce black trade and minimise it as far as possible. It is also important to mention that various Internet portals do not provide sufficient protection to detect people under 18 years of age, so that young people can access and order a wide range of online surfaces that distribute electrical cigarettes and fillers. However, the extent to which and the appropriate way to control the quality of filling fluids sold on the Internet is an important question. One of the more stringent provisions of the draft law is that additional products of new tobacco products and e-cigarettes can only be sold in all forms and only in tobacco shops, with appropriate controls. The provisions on fines are also clearly being tightened up. In more cases than before, the fine will be imposed in the event of a mandatory infringement. Dear Parliament, The bill also proposes to amend the excise duty law, under which nicotine-free e-cigarette filling fluid would also become an excise product. The rate of excise duty on filling fluids would be fixed at HUF 20 per ml instead of the current HUF 55, with the aim of reducing the illegal black trade already mentioned. [[11.50]] The motion also proposes, in line with the proposed amendments to the Traffic Act, the requirement for filling fluid and sealing of products in the new category of tobacco products, taking into account that the sale of filling fluids and new categories of tobacco products can also take place only in tobacco shops in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, The priority objective of the bill before you is to reduce young people's smoking, to protect non-smokers, which, I think, is a matter to be supported by everyone. The Fidesz fraction also considers it important to monitor and regulate tobacco products and related ancillary products properly and to reduce illegal trade, on which the bill contains forward-looking provisions. In the light of what has been said, I would like to ask my fellow Members, like the Fidesz fraction, to support the proposed bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-02-39	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-07-02-40	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard very nice words from the rapporteur and from the Fidesz Members here on the amendment of certain laws relating to the control of young people's smoking and the protection of non-smokers. A lot of things came up, which isn't really part of this law, because I think the title is already a problem, and it would be a lot easier if you didn't hide the purpose of robbing different markets behind such spectacular titles, but the title of the law is that the laws relating to the distribution and sale of tobacco products. This address would cover what we're really talking about here. After all, it is possible to talk here and the author is right about the harmful effects of smoking, the impact it has on people and the environment of people who smoke, what health costs they represent to the state, and we could list what they have actually said, but that is not the case here. Because if you say, as the author, that this is a very important problem and that unhealthy lifestyle and self-destruction cannot be the individual's own right, then the people who deal with the distribution of these products or the sale of these products are, therefore, the customs collectors of this negative phenomenon. And here's the next problem: among these people who make the most of these people as tax collectors, a lot of them belong to your circle of friends. From now on, the question of what we are talking about is already in question. Because you're telling me how much to do against the harmful effects of smoking. But then I will ask you, Congressman, how much money have you spent on prevention in recent years, how much money has been spent on information, how much money has been spent on counter-campaigns. If I assume that you were talking about smoking and speaking about young people, and you said if I remember correctly that 70 percent of 13-15-year-olds refuse to smoke, which is very good, by the way, but I'll ask you if you know how much money you have planned to promote sport in the budget now and last year and the year before, because that would be the counterexample. Do you know how much, Congressman? 25 million forints! Twenty-five million forints! That's what they did to promote sport, that's what they did to promote mass sports that could be one of the antidotes to smoking. Then you also said that you can reduce it and achieve great results by making cigarettes more expensive. But, Congressman, if cigarettes are ever more expensive, who will benefit? Report to the State once, from excise duty income, VAT revenue. It reports to distributors and manufacturers of tobacco products, as the margins are increasing, they can gain more and more profits. And who else does it benefit? To the black market, because the more expensive cigarettes are and the more forbidden they are to sell, the bigger the black market will be, as I remind you, and you mentioned tobacco products and alcohol at the same time, in America there was an example of this when they tried to fully introduce the ban on alcohol, and then, on a historical level, we know what the result was. So this bill is not about this, just like the original bill didn't say at the time, it's all about expanding the market, what changes you want to make for concession holders, and how you're trying to rob the e-cigarette and new types of tobacco, and bring it in to the aegis of friends, friends and everyone else. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi.]] By the way, since 2010, we have witnessed a precise, pinpoint economic machine. And we could even pay tribute to you for this brilliant implementation, if this economic plan were not to bring this country apart, to the absorption of the various economic sectors, and it would not be intended to ensure that Fidesz's hunger for power remains and to build strong economic oligarchs that belong to you and who will support you later. This is about ruling the Hungarian economy, which you are carrying out here, and I think it is safe to call this economic free robbery economic banditism, where family members, buddies, stromones, people close to Fidesz, Viktor Orbán, rule the major economic sectors, from agriculture to trade to tourism. And one of the first economic areas of this was the traffic process and the traffics. That was the very first thing you put your hands on. You will remember that since 2013, tobacco products have been sold only in national tobacco shops, and that the tobacco concessions have been allocated as a trust in the moonyard of large part government entrepreneurs. We remember how you conducted this whole concession; we remember that the newspapers were full of who won these concessions at the time. And the construction and operation of the tobacco market may best show the true face of Fidesz: nothing matters but money. For friends, family members, Fidesz mobs, the greatest profit is the only thing that counts. And the workers, the workers, are not dealt with, they are considered slaves, who have one thing to do: to serve the Fidesz lords to whom the money is actually made. They gave the Trafiks to their friends, and then came the next big wall in this market: they didn't put up a public tender to provide the traffiks, and the wholesale became the monopoly of the only company, and this was the National Tobacco Shop Supply Ltd. I think you know this company, because it was specifically for this purpose that the Tabán Trafik Zrt., which was in the interest of János Sánta, was working for this purpose. and BAT Pécsi Dohánygyár Kft. The tramp supplier is 49 percent BAT, the majority is Tabán Trafiké, and János Sánta, as we know, belongs to János Lázár's Vádmezővásárhely entrepreneurial station. János Sánta became known nationwide, they remember when we discussed the Traffic Law here, that he accidentally sent a version of this Traffic Law from his own machine, so he probably wrote it, and it turned out. And it was said here in this House that one of the draft laws was created here, but no one really cared. Just to say a few words about János Sánta, how he is a serious player in this market we are talking about and making changes to: according to the Watcher, his company is very prominent on the list of top 200 companies in Hungary, since if Mr Lázár mentioned Tesco, the National Tobacco Store Supply Ltd. is directly behind Tesco and Magyar Telekom. is ranked 14th, with net sales of HUF 543 billion in 2017. [[12.00]] János Sánta also owns another company, with a net turnover of HUF 556 billion in 2017, this is the Kft of Ventas Coffee's shares., which is 48.41 percent János Sánta's, with his son's 50 percent share, and here comes the other half of the company's interest again to a family of entrepreneurs in Hódmezővásárhely, the Veszelovszki family, and the consolidation of Ventas, this company's group includes: Tabán Trafik Zrt., Dofer Zrt., Continental Tobacco Zrt., Continental Tobacco Germany, Continental Tobacco Slovakia, Continental Tobacco Italy. So you can always see that these circles, for whom you have just submitted a bill, are huge players in this market. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Big money, that's a fact, but there are some serious problems, not with money, because, as I said, it flows from this market uncounted, because as a tax collector, they'll be able to make more money from this negative lifestyle, from smoking, making a very good living as tax collectors, and making very big money, especially if cigarettes become more expensive, the margins will increase, they'll be able to earn even more money, and they'll be able to make more money by importing e-cigis, so these are very important questions. [[Dr. László György Lukács takes the notary seat.]] But the problem is, do you know where he is? I thought when you tabled this amendment that you would respond to it. The problem is with the workers who work in the trucks, with the people I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, who are constantly being exploited, who are constantly eviscerated, and who are forced to do their work under inappropriate conditions, because in these traffics who work there never see sunlight during their working hours, they only have to work with artificial light, because they had to darken the traffic portals, so there is no light in these rooms. But the biggest problem is not that, and I thought that was what János Lázár was responding to, because the cases came in a row. Remember the Turkish-Szentmiklós case, when someone went in and the guys in the trams, he beat everyone up? Or do you remember the case in Kaposvár when the 21-year-old saleswoman was stabbed in the chest, in the hip, and her life was about a thread? Or do you remember the case in Pécs when one of the only criminals robbed four Pécs trucks in a row? Or do you remember the last time about the Práter Street incident where a civilian had to chase the robber? Why are there so many attacks on the tramps? Because when you go in as a criminal and commit a robbery, you can't see it from the outside. So the Traficans have become targets. I thought that they would react to this and submit an amendment that would result in what I think should be done, and I will present an amendment to that in order not to have to cover these business premises from the outside, so that we can see into the business, and we will try to prevent criminals from constantly attacking these trucks, and people who are in danger of life because they are working there, using this money to support their families and take this job. But no, we have seen from the proposal that Fidesz still does not care about the workers, only profit and profit, the workers, the workers, only slaves, who serve the Fidesz lords with their work. So I can say this, because it is clear and understandable that János Lázár, Commissioner for Tobacco, made this proposal so that he could bring the e-cigite, the large market for electric cigarettes, into the hands of his friends, and from now on, the pals will pull the shark off those e-cigarette users who are probably using these products for addiction. I think that it is a very important part of this proposal now, or it is also an advertisement to put tobacco products in a separate lighted place, all of which are just rounding up to the only goal of making the electric cigarette market dominated by fidesz buddies, fidesz lords, various oligarchs, and they are the only ones who can market these products, and they are the only ones who can make the most of their profits. I believe that it would be very important to combat smoking, it would be very important, and we could support the Fidesz in everything, and we will also support it by submitting such proposals, which aim to ensure that as few people in this country smoke as possible, that there is as much information as possible for young people and that as little as possible they reach for cigarettes, we will fully support you in this. We will also support it if, for example, I want to promote sport, not sport, but sport in Hungarian society. But there is one thing that we cannot be partners in, and so we will not be partners in, that the market, the tobacco market, will continue to be dominated by your friends, relatives and oligarchs, and that they will benefit as much as possible. We will therefore not support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-02-41	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-07-02-42	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I was amazed when he chose György Jobbik Szilágyi as his lead speaker on this important subject, because it was quite cynical when György Szilágyi talked about who the tax collectors were of some harmful passion, some bad thing, when we knew what hysteria he had organized here at the Gambling Law, at the banning of the one-armed robbers, and then later it turned out that the problems that made him unable to accept that the institutional system, the practice that affected hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people in the pubs, rural places, cultural centers and many places, caused harm to Hungarian families [[Tibor Bana: You guys did something bigger!]] that he had to make a move; he obviously couldn't support it. Turns out there was a lot of interest. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Brother, what professional argument is that? You're kidding.]] Mr Szilágyi also appeared a little like the man of the tobacco lobby in one half of his speech, as he was attacking the measure that cigarettes should not be lit, attacking the measures to prevent cigarette advertising in the windows of the tramps, constantly watching cigarette boxes and cigarette advertisements [[Gergely Harvestó: He didn't attack them. Dániel Z. Carpathian: He didn't say anything about it, did he?]] This is why the blackout is taking place; a number of measures are being attacked by the Member, which clearly help to reduce smoking in Hungary. Perhaps that's all the words the better Member deserved. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: But he didn't say anything about...]] The Government of Hungary and the Parliamentary majority of the Fidesz-KDNP...
u2019-07-02-43	I think there's a keynote speech going on... [[Interventions in the ranks of Jobbik, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: In this House you should not lie!]]
u2019-07-02-44	Obviously, you're hurting, that's the truth, which is why you're yelling, but you can explain that when you speak later. The priority of the government and the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament is to reduce smoking, in particular the protection of minors. However, we have heard here that many results can be recorded by the government and Parliament with the measures it has taken and, by the way, with the preventive measures that we have taken in recent years. In order to reduce smoking, especially in order to protect young people, for example, there have been numerous programmes in the field of school health development in relation to the prevention of habitation, the promotion of quitting, and specifically part of school health development has been missed by this programme, Mr György Szilágyi, and there are nearly a hundred health development offices in the country, which have joined the anti-smoking programme, which have also received government grants, which the Member has also missed. It is precisely these health promotional offices that deal with quitting programs that have helped 25,000 people to quit or quit as a result of these offices. A number of good examples could be set here, which were mentioned earlier, but it is not a coincidence that the World Health Organisation has also noticed how important Hungary is doing to reduce smoking, so in 2013 Prime Minister Viktor Orbán received one of the World Health Organisation's related awards. In the current bill before us, the author intends to amend four laws, since the provision, which is famous in the history of politics as a trade law, stood the test of time, but looking back over the past years, it was important and necessary to collect practical experience, an analysis of them was important and, as a result, to draw up a bill that is now being put forward. [[12.10]] Thus, the draft law clarifies the text of the original law for a number of details and introduces additional restrictive provisions. Among the tightening provisions, it is mentioned in the first place that in the future additional products for new tobacco products and all forms of e-cigarettes, refill liquid, bottle, tobacco substitute nicotine products, new categories of tobacco products and their ancillary products will be sold only in tobacco shops, and the provisions on the protection of minors will be extended to this subject. All those who have lawfully marketed those products before the entry into force of these provisions may continue to market those products for 120 days after the entry into force, but will no longer be able to acquire new products. It is also important to say that there are minor steps, but very important steps to change the law, because in places such as advertising, the ban on advertising of ancillary products is also an important tightening up which, when these products, such as e-cigarettes, were outside the trade network, the advertising of these products, in relation to the promotion of minors, or because of the freer distribution of such advertising, such advertising, or even webshops, are easier for minors. This is obviously not the right direction, which is why this section should also be amended. A very welcome amendment is the imposition of a fine, since the bill would make it compulsory to impose a fine if young people were to be served with tobacco products. There will no longer be any discretion here as a result, or after three such occasions, the concession will also be lost by the given tramps. It is important that the clarification of the text settles that tobacco retailers can be fined if they are realistic or need to be suspected in the seller. These abuses will be further screened for juveniles here. What is very important here, my fellow Member, the submitting Member, has already said, is that although this is not opened in this law, we also advocate stricter regulation in the condominiums, because at present there is a strict regulation in the Hungarian legal order for enclosed spaces, enclosed spaces for common use, but at the same time in free common spaces such as halls, gardens, courtyards and various spaces in front of garages, they are premises which do not currently have such strict regulations. I think that we could go further and achieve more, because here the residential community should decide, or a certain percentage of the residential community should decide not to allow smoking in these common areas anymore. So, obviously, we support this bill primarily because of the protection of minors, and secondly, by tightening up the steps taken to reduce smoking, as this is very important in terms of fines, trade flows and issues that are dealt with by this bill with less tightening. We believe that this is an important stage in our work to reduce smoking, but it is very important that we do not stop here at this point, but that we can work together with further measures, ideas and joint work, both in order to improve health and to reduce smoking. Therefore, the KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-02-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-07-02-46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Contrary to the title of the law on reducing smoking of minors and amending certain laws relating to the protection of non-smokers, it is not at all about reducing smoking of minors. Indeed, the only point in the proposal that is really suitable for reducing young people's smoking is the rules governing the imposition of fines. Under the proposal, the authority will now not only be able to impose a fine on the seller of the tobacco product if he sells tobacco products to a minor, but the imposition of a fine will be mandatory for the authority. Of course, this system will not be greatly improved, it will remain playable, as young people can still have access to tobacco products if they want to. The chance of being caught from the tramp side cannot be considered to be too high, but the introduction of mandatory fines is definitely to be appreciated. However, the proposal continues to maintain a bad element of the rules on tramps. Based on this, the darkener foil that facilitates many robberies must continue to remain on the shop windows, even though they were asked to be removed by the sellers who feared their safety. However, the real aim of the proposal is not to protect minors and non-smokers from smoking, but to pursue another, much less eligible objective. This goal is to put traffic owners in an even better position than before, so that they can realise even more revenue. They want to improve the position of trade owners who were the winners of the retail redistribution of the HUF 700 billion tobacco market, and who in many cases did not have any tobacco sales experience before. The most significant change in the proposal would be that virtually all tobacco-related products could only be purchased in tramps. This includes e-cigarettes and its additional products, for which the amendment makes a fundamentally conceptual error by classification of tobacco products only available in trades. As we have already said in the debate on a previous bill, electronic cigarettes contribute to a reduction in the number of smokers, with e-cigarettes otherwise being 95 percent less harmful to health than ordinary cigarettes. In fact, e-cigs have been specifically successfully used to help smokers quit. I can only repeat these arguments in the present case, as there is nothing else in the present proposal but that electronic cigarettes and their additional products will be allowed to be sold only in trades afterwards. This significantly restricts the marketing of a product that can be a healthier alternative to smoking. The sale of e-cigarettes in tramps does not serve public health purposes, as we force the consumer into a medium where there are many products that are more harmful to health. Thus, the potential of e-cigarettes to promote quitting from regular cigarettes is lost, as a quitter cannot be forced into a tobacco store and hope that he will not buy from tobacco products that are addictive. There are also points in the bill that provide additional benefits to current traffic owners. First of all, there would be a significant reduction in the number of tramps, increasing the current ratio of 3,000 inhabitants/traficans to 4 thousand inhabitants. This, for example, means that instead of 40, only 30 such stores would work if we counted 120,000 inhabitants. This, of course, does not affect the current concessions, since they have been allocated for 20 years, but are virtually preventing new operators from entering the market, so that new competitors of current owners can appear. This is supported in the proposal by a number of rules not in any form related to the protection of minors, such as changes in the time limits for extending the concession in the event of the death of the holder so far. Secondly, the rate of excise duty on the charger of electronic cigarettes is reduced from 55 HUF per ml to 20 HUF, i.e. the tax burden on them is reduced to one third. When the tobacco market was redistributed years ago, it was already a problem that people who had no experience in the marketing of tobacco products were entitled to operate tobacco. Their inexperience is also given in this case, as electronic cigarettes are not simply another tobacco product, but a device for which specialized shops have been established, both in the area of product sales and servicing. Finally, the question arises as to how a tax reduction for a part of tobacco products serves to protect minors from smoking. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-07-02-47	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2019-07-02-48	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, They say a drop of vinegar spoils a barrel of wine. There is not a drop of vinegar in this bill, but a good bucket of vinegar, because I believe there is no debate between us in that, I agree with Mr President, when he says that there is probably a broad consensus in that House that there must be a way to protect non-smokers on the one hand, and to reduce smoking on the other, in particular, to reduce smoking at a young age. [[12.20]] And there are also measures in this bill for the sake of Congressman Nacsa who, apparently, did not understand this on the occasion of György Szilágyi's speech, there are parts of this bill that really point in this direction and which the opposition, the Democratic Coalition, could certainly support. So it's not these types of measures that are the problem. There are two kinds of problems that I would like to draw your attention to, which is why this bill does not serve the stated objectives, but quite another, most business purposes. On the one hand, it does not improve the provisions that create a specific monopoly in this area, but rather makes them worse, by assigning concessions to certain businesses, whether in the field of wholesale or retail trade. Dear Congressman János Lázár, I am sorry, but the fact that we are not dealt with by the multinationals, but by your buddies, does not give me much comfort, I do not care, it is your private business, and to this end, we may be able to bring legislative proposals before the Parliament, and we may be able to vote on them, but perhaps not to expect us to do so. As is the case in tobacco retail, well-defined business circles revealed by the press acquire most of the concessions by their own names and aliases and distribute others as political favors. You do not want to maintain this system, you want to strengthen it, you want to introduce new concessions into the system, because the vassals have been given some small estate for a long time, you can now distribute new estates, and likewise strengthen these types of business relations. On that, and I do not want to talk about it for a long time, as my fellow Members have said so, on matters which should simply be changed on the basis of common sense, such as the issue of foiling, which you are not interested in, nor in the interests of those who work in shops, nor of those who are involved in tobacco trafficking, they are not inclined to find a sensible solution here. Obviously, I also fully understand the purpose of this provision, so make no mistake, but then we must find a good compromise. In general, I also think that if the intention was to strengthen the protection of minors, then surely there would be solutions that we could find together, but obviously that is not the intention, for example, you do not touch it. What is the other area which is the purpose of this proposal? Obviously, you and those who write bill proposals instead of you on these topics have noticed that e-cigarettes or e-smoking are splitting up a larger slice, and once again the intention is not to have more regulated conditions here, nor is it the intention to provide protection in some way; the intention to include these instruments in tobacco trade is to increase profits in wholesale and retail trade, and to increase public revenue. In other words, this is a kind of money collection with the special stichhel that, in addition, they are making Parliament a means of collecting private money again in this case. I agree that there is a need for regulation, and you are right about that, but of course we know that the consequences of this regulation will be that a cat-mouse game will start, that the Internet can be banned, saying that I will be ordered here on the Internet, that I will obviously corner internet trade, that the NAV can be set at the taxpayer's expense to open up the packages ordered on the Internet, or to close websites, it is not that simple, we know that, but you can have fun with that, you can spend a lot of public money on this, so that profits can be realised in your narrower and wider business and friends. Is that really the solution? Is that really the point? Wouldn't it be the solution, for example, to develop a system of online commerce of this type, which provides adequate protection, otherwise protects minors, protects quality, protects public income, but doesn't stick its head in the sand, and doesn't pretend that there is no Internet trade and that the world doesn't go to this world? Obviously, it could be, it would be possible, it would be feasible, but just then, your tobacco stores and wholesale business partners and their friends would not be able to obtain the profits from this. I must say, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that you can count on our support in everything that concerns the protection of minors, the protection of non-smokers, the reduction of smoking, and nothing that protects your business interests, and unfortunately this is what the crucial part of this bill deals with. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-07-02-49	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, further speeches will now be held. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai of the Fidesz Group, who joined the bill as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2019-07-02-50	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In fact, I asked for the floor because of personal involvement, although in fact, in the form that I myself have smoked for more than ten years, but I haven't smoked a puff in 15 years, in this way I think I can feel the situation of smokers and non-smokers. In recent years, the Government of Hungary and the Hungarian Parliament have taken serious decisions and taken serious steps to reduce smoking and protect non-smokers. It was a difficult, but important decision to stop smoking in workplaces, in public areas and in community places, in order to protect non-smokers, I think it took courage. From the perspective of recent years, I see that this decision has been accepted by Hungarian society. The decision has reduced the degree and proportion of smoking, and this is a key national strategy and public health objective. The more difficult you get to a young tobacco product and the fewer places you experience smoking, the less likely you are to try it and become addicted. Smoking is harmful to health, it is a leading cause in the development of a Kazal serious disease, and this, in addition to being fewer Hungarians, is an extraordinary cost to health insurance. Hungarian regulation, the Hungarian tightening up, is a model for other countries as well. I am sure that the positive effects of reducing and tightening smoking are already positive and that the positive impact will soon be measurable and felt at national level. I can tell the opposition that the wrong person is the wrong person. For you, it is only business that is important and the interests of tobacco companies and multinationals are represented and protected. [[Demercation and intervention from the opposition.]] I encourage the Hungarian Parliament and the Government of Hungary to go along the road to protect minors and non-smokers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-02-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Szilágyi György, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-07-02-52	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Let's just pretend that this last sentence that we just heard, we didn't even hear that we care about profit and money, that's what this bill is about. But I have to respond to Lőrinc Nacsa, who said in his speech that he remembers him, and he knows what was here during the trial of the gambling law. Well, Congressman, you don't know, because you weren't here in this House at the time, you know, you haven't yet discovered the talent you have that you're willing to tell you any of the untruths you've described, and perhaps you haven't even discovered that Mr. Bagi is writing your speeches. But, Congressman, it is outrageous that you, as a new Member in this House, are simply lying, but you are lying, because I spoke in front of you about the things you said at the beginning of your speech that I said or said I did not. There's a record here, you can check it out. You've committed a preposterous lie. Allow me to say one more thing to you, perhaps you do not know this: I think that the rapporteur, János Lázár, is one of the most prepared Members of the Hungarian Parliament, as opposed to you, and we are talking about a number of Members with whom we have had specific professional debates in recent years, and, you know, that is why this bill hurts me. This bill, the communication of this bill, hurts because unlike you, John Lazarus does not speak out of stupidity. Unlike you, János Lázár does not cloud this law out of stupidity or from the panels he describes, but knows exactly what he is doing and knows exactly what he is saying. That is the problem with this law, that this law is not about what you have said here. [[12.30]] I would like to ask the author, János Lázár, to submit this legislative amendment proposal, if it is not even appropriate for you, because there may be a better solution to this, but I do not think that there is such a deterrent that it is possible to see into the store, that tobacco products could not be placed in the window, because I did not say such things, and I do not want tobacco products or anything else to be out there. But if we can see into the store and use it to prevent more robberies or human lives, perhaps by deterring the robbers from targeting tobacco stores and the Trafiks in connection with this act, consider how it can be resolved by not making concessions against juveniles. So that doesn't mean they can't buy, let's keep these products out of sight, but let's protect workers who are inside these trucks, these tobacco stores, and do everything we can to make sure that their lives are safe. That is why I am saying that I am submitting this amendment. If you can't accept it, please make it better, but let's change this situation. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-02-53	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr János Lázár, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-07-02-54	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your comments. I thank my fellow Members very much for the correct comments, especially those who are political in Fidesz and KDNP. And in no way do I take offense to the comments of my fellow opposition Members, although I thought that we could exempt the House from the personal tones in relation to a technically accurate, technical bill. I have been taking part in parliamentary debates less often recently, but it is reassuring that nothing has changed in this House in recent years, and it is likely that this will even deteriorate in the coming period. As far as the suggestions are concerned, I would like to give them a meaningful response. If we are talking about anti-smoking and anti-smoking, I recommend to all my fellow Members the proposal and initiative that has failed at the government's resistance, at least it has been pro-prolonged, and this is the fact that the Parliament should adopt a law that I recommend that people born after January 2020 should not be served in the tobacco trades from 2038 onwards, and then everyone can vote that they are now in favour of smoking, such a lobby, such a lobby, or anti-smoking. I propose nothing less than that my fellow Members support this motion so that a new generation can grow up completely smoke-free and Hungary is a smoke-free country. If my opposition fellow Members take smoking reduction and the fate of the growing generation seriously, they can support this motion, I hope, and even with the government protesting or abstaining, we could succeed in this bill. So I hope that the representatives of DK, MSZP and Jobbik will strongly support my proposal that smoking be banned entirely in Hungary from the generation born after 2020. My fellow Member has indeed been working in this House for a long time, my fellow Member György Szilágyi, as have all my fellow Members, and we have had many debates and talked many times, but my fellow Member rarely gives up such a high ball. It is likely that there was no time to prepare with the intensive leadership of János Latorcai, as he refers to sport, because we are not spending enough on sport and promoting sport. What I've been listening to in this House for nine years is that the Tao system is pointless and unnecessary. The Tao system has put 500 billion HUF in replacement education in Hungary. More advertising than the debate that has been going on around sports funding for nine years has not been in favour of sport in Hungary. I add what you said, Mr President, you are right, I think that sport funding has a crucial role to play in building a healthy lifestyle, and let us be clear and clear: without the Tao system in Hungary, there would never have been money to renovate sports facilities at small settlement and municipal level. Where there are no high-quality sports fields, there are no normal dressing rooms, there is no normal swimming pool, there is no normal handball or football field, the children will not go to sports. Children go to more sports these days because we spend more on sports infrastructure, and in the whole of government communication, sports and everyday movement play a crucial role. I dare say that you are right about the importance of sport, because in 2004, I was one of the first mayors to support the introduction of everyday physical education at municipal cost. In fact, I would recommend it to you, when you are personal, and you question my commitment to being the first mayor to support the creation of non-smoking jobs to protect non-smokers. In Hungary, Hódmezővásárhely was the first playground in the years 2004-05 where smoking was prohibited in public areas, causing a huge debate. So I don't think you can question my commitment with the basis and right. On the other hand, I have friends, but as you know, I have few friends. I'm often told in Fidesz that I have too few friends and too many enemies. What I can tell you is that if all the trams were my friends, it would represent a strong force, given that in Hungary 4412 are eligible for a trafic concession. So there are 5003 concessions and 4412 people. The fact that this is not small shows that fewer than 8 thousand general practitioners operate in Hungary. [[Defiance.]] So if you had this network, if you had it, you would really have a strong social influence. I do not have this network, it is without doubt a fact, but I do not deny it, Member, and I will never deny that one of our aims in Hungary is to reduce smoking, and I agree with you, protecting young people. I think it's a restriction on trade that, at greater risk, a child can only obtain cigarettes at the cost of fraud, that he sends in the older one before him, and, say, he can't buy cigarettes at multinational companies on Friday and Saturday nights, that does limit access. So it is an unshakable claim that in controlled controlled, controlled circumstances, when a trafficker risks his personal existence, if he serves a minor, as they cease to function, he will now lose his right permanently, pay huge fines of HUF 5 million, he will not serve minors. It was a daily exercise, a lot of recordings were made, a lot of reports about the unlimited service of young people trying to have fun in supermarkets on Friday and Saturday nights without any problems. Believe me, Congressman, restrictions on trade, restrictions on access all over the world meant reduced smoking. In Hungary, too, the possibility of access must be further limited, and the concession holder must risk his or her personal existence if he or she serves a minor. Tramp who loses his right to concession and makes a living in the family won't serve a minor. We need to make sure that juveniles can't get cigarettes, that's the most important thing. As far as the rest of your comments are concerned, Mr President, in Hungary, and if there is smoke, I have made this clear, I will never hide it until smoking can be fully eliminated, and it is in the interest of the state and the national interest that this trade, like every day's trade in consumer goods, must be in Hungarian national hands, according to my personal belief. Not so long ago, perhaps today or the last few days, perhaps yesterday one of his fellow Members interpelled Fidesz Minister by saying that the national party is Jobbik. If the Jobbik party is a national party, then it should also be important for you to have the retail trade in daily consumer goods in national hands. I am surprised that my fellow Members worked in this House for 20 years without anyone suggesting why the big stores are selling the daily consumer goods, why we gave up this opportunity, thus destroying partly our agriculture, our food industry, our own economic opportunities, and our chances of getting into the middle class. So, if retail is in Hungarian hands, it is a cardinal, national strategy issue. On the other hand, Congressman, there are some in this country, in Szabolcs county, you have fellow parties and fellow Members from Szabolcs county, for example, tobacco growers, who are trying to thrive and live on tobacco production. Unfortunately, in 2010, there were 20,000 more, and today there are only 5 thousand. Yes, they must also be dealt with. For the record, Congressman, I am not only talking to you, I am talking to the multinationals, I am talking to the small ones, and as a minister, my door is open to everyone, as I have welcomed you, and I welcome any of my fellow Members to every debate. I'm not just talking to my friends or friends, who, as I said earlier, are pretty short-handed, but I'm talking to my opponents and my enemies on a regular basis, so I'm waiting for everyone who has a suggestion. So I listened to tobacco producers, listened to tobacco dealers, listened to tobacco manufacturers. It's a bilateral thing. Why do I say that? Richárd Hörcsik, representative of Sátoraljaújhely, is concerned that multinational manufacturers will crush the tobacco factory in Tátaljaújhely alone in Hungarian hands. [[12.40]] If I asked the representatives of the National Jobbik Party in Tátaljaújhely, they would surely say that the interests of the tobacco factory must be protected under all circumstances. That is the only Hungarian-owned national tobacco factory, all the other production capacities in Hungary are foreign owned, Congressman. I think that if Richard Hörcsik stands up here in Parliament and defends the interests of the tobacco factory in Tátonaljaújhely as a local employer, I think it is a consistent representative attitude, which is why he was elected to do so, and I am sure that the local Jobbik will also protect the interests of this company in such a city. This is not treason, it is not corruption, I think that is the job of an elected Member of Parliament. I can say the same in the wholesale trade that I know that knowledge of the facts is not a prerequisite for the work of Members, where I would like to say the small thing that the European Commission has examined both the trade law and the wholesale trade, they have gone to the Constitutional Court, and have gone to the European Court of Human Rights. All battles have been won by the government and won by the author, there is no bill affecting trade that has passed the Hungarian judicial control, the control of the Constitutional Court, the control of the European Court of Human Rights and the control of the European Commission, and has been approved. And I would add that the European Commission has, of course, approved the rule on wholesale conversion by giving it a share, imposing a profit ceiling, including non-owned tobacco companies. So everyone in Hungary participates in the wholesale trade through the reimbursement. What has been the observation of Mr Arató and you, for the benefit of the workers, I am open to this. The point is, no advertising, no blackout. I look forward to these proposals, amendments, all the initiatives that serve the interests of workers, which aim to protect the interests of young people, because we agree that smoking in Hungary should be curbed, and it would be good if we could stop it together. I look forward to these initiatives. I hope that in the otherwise polarised political world, we can at least agree on this one issue, and then we can move forward a little bit, so I will ignore the fact that I have to return the personalization. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-02-55	I would like to thank the Member, as rapporteur, for his answers. Dear Parliament, As chairman of the meeting, who had quit smoking for more than 30 years, I did not announce the conclusion of the general debate in my excitement, so I will now do so for the record. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Fenyvesi, Fidesz Group, applied for a speech with the title Balaton. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-07-02-56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Tourism is a strategic sector in Hungary, one of the engines of the economy. The performance of Hungarian tourism has increased steadily since 2010, since then the number of guests has more than doubled, and the revenues of the accommodations have more than doubled. Hungarian tourism is growing by several times the European average. The sector employs over 400,000 people. In 2018, tourism closed a record year in Hungary: according to KSH data, the number of guests using commercial accommodations increased by 5.6 percent, representing a total of 12.5 million people, and the number of guest nights they spent increased by 4.2 percent compared to the previous year, thus crossing the 31 million guest nights. In addition to foreign tourists, Hungary's domestic travel activity also increased: in 2018, 6.6 million domestic tourists spent 15.7 million guest nights in Hungary. Taking into account the significant economic recovery effects of tourism, the government established the National Tourism Development Strategy until 2030 through the Hungarian Tourism Agency, which aims to ensure the country's growth through the development of tourism. The government will provide more than ever more than HUF 820 billion for development by 2030, so that Hungary can take its place in the world's tourism. Under the Kisfaludy programme launched in 2017, there will be a HUF 300 billion investment in accommodation development in rural Hungary by 2030, of which HUF 150 billion will be provided by the government in the form of non-refundable grants from domestic budget sources. The Hungarian tourist traffic is divided by about half and half between domestic and foreign tourists. After Budapest, the second most important area is Lake Balaton, where the majority of guest nights are provided by domestic guests. Significant improvements were made in the western part of the Balaton Uplands, in the Badacsony region. Without the need for completeness, let me mention just a few. In Nagyvázsony there was a unique training centre on 33 hectares, worth 126 million forints, which is intended to present the work horses and the work they have done, and in its neighbourhood there is a 1200-metre trail. The renovation of Kinizsi Castle and the renovation of several municipal buildings started with a billion HUF investment. In Badacsony, Badacsonytomajon, parks, roads, sidewalks were beautiful, the kindergarten was renewed, and a mini-cradle was also established. Within the framework of the World Heritage Proposal, the conservation and development of the built and natural heritage takes place in the Folly Arboretum. The city's three beaches, pensions and accommodations have been renewed. An old cultic place in the region, the renewed Mermaid restaurant, has been handed over, in which a modern wine and champagne center has been established. More than HUF 3 billion has been spent in the city and is still being invested. In Szigliget the port, parks, roads, sidewalks were beautiful, the beach was renovated, several municipal buildings were renovated, and significant investments were launched in the castle. A total of HUF 700 million is being developed in the settlement. The open market of Révfülöpön is open, along with roads, the renovation of the two beaches and sidewalks, the outdoor stage is being built, the building of the cultural house begins. The total value of the investments exceeds HUF 550 million. The beach on the hill of Abraham is beautiful at several paces, the boat dock is established, the community house is now being built, more roads, the sidewalk is being renewed. A total of nearly 350 million HUF worth of development will be achieved. The examples are only taken, the line of developments could be classified for a long time. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of domestic tourism, further positive decisions will be made in the next year's budget, the VAT on accommodation services will be reduced from 18% to 5 percent. With the expansion of quality services and catering facilities, tourism can continue to soar at Lake Balaton this year. We hope that progress will be unbroken. The excellent programs, the demanding accommodations and the natural beauties of the region welcome the Hungarian and foreign guests this summer as well, including, of course, the fellow Members regardless of party affiliation, because if summer, then Balaton. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-02-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, who has also applied for a post-meeting speech on our joint achievements. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-07-02-58	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you for the opportunity. As a Member of the Parliament of Eger and its region, I asked for the floor after the agendas. From the trust of the voters, I can represent the interests of the citizens of the citizens of Eger and its surroundings, the citizens of 27 settlements, in the Hungarian Parliament. This is an extremely rewarding and responsible task, and I thank you for your trust. Since the parliamentary elections in 2018, more than a year has passed, during which time we have achieved many common results. Every year, I report in writing to the voters on the progress of our common affairs. A year is already a period of time for which voters should be informed. It's been a year, and we've achieved it, and we've seen the end of something, and unfortunately, there's one that hasn't been successful, but we don't give up, the cycle is four years old. Dear Parliament, The most important thing for us is that after decades of promise, an Eger dream is realized: we connect Eger with the capital, which is why the M25 road is built. I report that the investment is going well, in excellent quality, with deadlines in advance. We've already handed one section over to traffic, and next time the entire M25 road will be available. The Eger-Budapest range will be safer, shorter, more tourists and businesses will come into our region, giving jobs to families in Eger and Eger. [[12.50]] So the road is building, and we connect Eger to the highway. In fact, the design of the Egert bypass road will soon begin. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We can say that our settlements are on an evolving path, there are many common achievements, but, of course, we still have plenty to do. Every settlement has a plan or an old debt to be fulfilled. Our historical memories are renewed, the Eger castle, the Basilica and the Minaret. The citizens, the mayors and the Government of Hungary should be thanked for the progress made. And thank you for your attention. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-02-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ovádi, Fidesz Group also applied for a post-the-meeting address with the title "The importance of the Sváb settlements in Veszprém 01's constituency. You have the floor.
u2019-07-02-60	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. We have presented our region in many ways here in Parliament, and I would like to highlight a new point that we are proud of. Veszprém county's constituency No. 1 has 25 settlements, I represent the interests of the inhabitants of 24 small settlements in Veszprém. Of the 24 small settlements, it is a great pride that more than half of the settlements have real Swabian ethnicity roots. I think it is very important to emphasise that the people there are proud and active in preserving and cultivating their traditions. In Hungary, ethnic authorities were established in the mid-1990s. In the constituency there is a German minority government in Bakonyna, Bándon, Czech Republic, Hárskút, Herenden, Kislődön, Lókút, Márkón, Úrkut, Veszprém and Veszprém. This was an important step, since the chosen, legitimate institution of those who claim to be nationalities was established, which became the guardian and nurse of culture, language, traditions and identity. Thanks to the opportunities and support provided by the government, many more traditional groups can now operate actively in communities. In the municipalities, national authorities help to ensure that the representation of interest is provided as best as possible with local authorities. In recent years, the civil government has multiplied national minority subsidies, from which national authorities can re-establish kindergartens and schools. It is good to see and experience that ethnic groups in the constituency operate, cultivate their traditions, preserve our European and Christian culture, as the Swabian culture enriches Hungarian culture and enriches Christian European culture. In the ten settlements of the constituency there is a minority kindergarten, and in seven settlements there is a nationality school, where children are familiar with ethnic traditions from a very small age. Tradition is not only shown in the field of education, but there are folklore circles, folk dance circles, and traditional ethnic groups and civil society associations in all settlements. Teachers and traditionalists play a prominent role, as their work is one of the pledges that traditions, folk songs and dances will continue over the years. We can choose from a range of Folklore events, which have a special family atmosphere. For example, without the need for completeness, the day of the Báldi, the bouquet festival in Bakonynana, the national minority day in Marko, the Czech Republic's Swabian day, the Hársk út, the locality chorus meeting on the road, the ethnicity and village day in Kislőd, the Swabian Balls in Kvároslőd. The latter is so popular that it takes place several times a year. In my constituency, one day I was invited to three or four German ethnic events. It wasn't stressful, it was uplifting. Each event was a celebration that was uploaded. At an event like this, I feel that my heart is beating with them as an honorary swab. They are such proud slices of the region, who colorize it and strengthen it with their ethnic self-consciousness. We thank the German ethnic leaders of the settlements, as their work also contributes to the fact that Bakony's colorful cultural storehouse can be further developed. So they deserve all the help and support they can give to maintain national traditions as long as possible, so that as many people can learn about it. It is a great pleasure to have the government give unprecedented support to all 13 Hungarian nationalities, including the German nationality, in the 2020 budget. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-02-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, the Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title 'Death Row'. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-07-02-62	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, That's right, I gave my speech the title of death row; death row, or death row. Here is a question to be decided that this institution has the right. In many cases, I say, yes, cursed bastards belong there, there's nothing to be sorry about. However, we are talking about settlements, the Hungarian countryside, and in this speech I would like to address the countryside, the Hungarian villages and, in particular, my own constituency. These tiny villages, because I come from a small-walled constituency, and they don't understand why they're on death row from South Somogy. They do not understand why they were sentenced to death, because if everything goes on like this, then we have to admit that the Hungary, the rural Hungary that we still know, or what lives in our memories, is over. Among other things, we wanted to achieve the goal of at least slowing down this end, and with my excellent colleague, Zoltán Magyar, we did not propose by accident to increase the funds for the Hungarian village programme. After all, if we look at the size of the government's resources for this purpose by the next year, we see that this is less than half of the budget, we are talking about HUF 90 billion, this is the original estimate. Ladies and gentlemen, This will certainly not be enough to stop the crashing problem that we face as a fast train going through the countryside. The so-called Kipp point, which we have already reached in the very, very many Hungarian settlements, is well known in the local sociology. This is when selective escape or selective emigration becomes a specific escape, and anyone who lives and moves, who is even a little more socially mobile, leaves the Hungarian village, the Hungarian village to which Sándor Csoóri said it was the backbone of the nation. If the government is serious about what they say about rural policy, then this Sanctuary of Sándor Csoóri should be carved into a gold tablet. We see that the HUF 50 billion planned, say on the village road base, is far from enough to solve the problems. Far from being enough for these settlements to finally open up and not feel like they're buried alive, and let's say, without a problem, they're not only allowed to be approached by helicopters or by a couple of ten million SUVs. After all, their infrastructure, the catastrophic road conditions that, let's say, characterize the region of South Transdanubia, speak for themselves and drive everyone out of there, drive potential investors away from there. This should be improved, so we did not say that this amount should be increased by at least HUF 20 billion. We should also increase the amount of resources for rural sub-programmes, as we acknowledge that there are many good initiatives here, but if we compare this with the set of problems that we say we face in the country for such non-governmental puppies every day, then we must say that this will be little if the government not only thinks in a form of beauty patch, so there will be little to solve these problems. These are ageing settlements, where there is no school, where there is no doctor, where the shop is now closed. If we want investors to be attracted to this area, to increase the strength of the population, and not only to have one or two Döblogyi in these settlements, who have no sense of social responsibility, and who, besides state aid, give a great deal of attention to the long-term fate and future of these regions, then this government should also think about it and consider taking much more attention to the Hungarian countryside, which is our past, and we believe, at least here, in Jobbik's faction, that it could mean the Hungarian future. [[13.00]] That's what we've asked for the support of those in pro-government benches. Obviously, we have no illusions, and the survival of these small settlements would be extremely important from a Hungarian national point of view. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-02-63	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, from the Jobbik Group, has also applied for a post- Agenda address:. For how long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-07-02-64	Mr President, Dear House, The Hungarian future cannot be in opposition, the truth cannot be in opposition, but the draft budget drawn up by Fidesz-KDNP does not typically show this. Total Hungarian social groups are excluded from the list of beneficiaries that this government would expect to carry on their backs this country as a Hungarian working man, the taxpayer. Government cynicism is nothing more typical than the end of a three-day long protest in Kossuth Square last night, which was organised by foreign exchange credit victims in order to at least hear their voices here in the House, and it would not have taken a great deal of trouble to visit and talk to my fellow government colleagues, but, unfortunately, that meeting did not take place in that form. At the same time, some of the credit-damaged people here in the Chamber paid tribute to the instant Question Time, when several factions pointed to the President of the MNB and to the Fidesz State Secretarys and leaders, which are clearly aimed at finding out that the government maintained its pact with the Banking Association, the EBRD, which, when it signed, undertook not to impose any additional burden on these financial institutions for the benefit of the victims. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these people in budget planning are not barcodes, but real sentient beings, those who, in design, should not only represent certain elements of a series of numbers, but they themselves are actually here in Kossuth Square, with us many times in the Chamber. Many of these people deserve to be voted Fidesz-KDNP in the last election, at least to talk to them. After all, the solutions that they themselves put on the table would clearly help even the situation of the Hungarian budget, but the Hungarian future for sure. It can be seen that the President of the National Bank of Hungary, who honoured him here in the Chamber yesterday, disposals over a huge fortune, is not he personally, but the organization led by him, since the Hungarian National Bank, if you will, sits on the hundreds of billions of foreign exchange credentials, realised a huge, hundred billion-dollar profit during the foreign exchange loan conversion. And I call on this organization and its leader to return this money to the people concerned, to return this amount to the victims on a compensation basis that can then be settled from the compensation fund, since almost no one talks about them, or the situation of those who, with their last efforts, are still moaning on the charges that have now been shifted to HUF, but are still complaining of unjustified burdens. I would also like to say that we in this House can often agree on demographic targets. Sensitive people believe that Hungarian reproduction must be made up of self-esteem, and certainly not from the outside. I could open a discussion section on foreign workers and migrant workers called here by Fidesz-KDNP, but I do not wish to use the time frame for this, as I have done it several times. At the same time, I would say that demographic goals cannot be met if complete Hungarian social groups are left out of planning, if Hungarian young people are left out, because state support for housing savings is abolished by the government. As a result, many people can't even collect their own shares for the CSOK and leave Hungary, unfortunately, this is not where very many people start families. Those who have been left out of planning, who have actually been left out of the solutions so far, are the victims who have already been evicted, who have not only housing but also family goals, have plans to have children, and these people, with an unjustified burden, cannot even think of taking on either a baby shower loan or a reduced CHOK loan. It is no coincidence that I highlight the word "credit," since most of the elements of the family support package are embedded in further debt even if they are preferential schemes and there is no debate between us regarding the discount, but it is quite certain that the amount of subsidies should be increased not only in the case of real-estate property, but also in the form of a rental program, not only in terms of newly purchased large family car, but also in respect of used vehicles which meet the appropriate technical parameters. I would like to tell you that, as long as entire social groups are left out of your world, worldview, vision, meaningful reproduction, catching up and helping ourselves is not expected in substance, but those words, these messages must always be heard from us, because the truth cannot be held in opposition, the Hungarian future cannot be held in opposition. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-02-65	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Farkas, from the Jobbik Group, also applied for an after-the-date speech:, Let us remember the victims and martyrs of the Republic of the Council 100 years ago. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-07-02-66	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A hundred years ago, during these months, during these weeks, hundreds of our fellow citizens died innocently or because they dared to oppose that inhumane system; I would like to remember them in my speech today. Remembering is our duty, an obligation inside. A family, a private individual, remembers its ancestors, we do this on the day of the dead or the other days of the year, a settlement remembers its ancestors, this is what we do on the day of the Council republic, for example, in my hometown, Kecelen, where there were 28 victims of the Council republic, and the people of Kecel remembered the inhabitants of Kecel who died at the time, and a nation has a duty to remember the ancestors who died innocently during those times. It is important to remember, and it is also important to talk about, what happened during these 133 days during the red rule indicated by the name of Béla Kun. We can say that this was the first appearance of the idea of communism in Hungary, the idea that proclaimed equality, but when their interests so desired, then, we know very well, they are more equal than equals, just to quote Orwell's Animal Farm, and they used it; this equality is also a false idea. After all, we know very well that people are different, based on their knowledge, diligence and perseverance, different kinds of people, and this is true, so this equality is also a false idea, and they have tried to build a whole system and build it by force. It is also worth remembering that, not only during the period of the Republic of the Council, which was a relatively small period in the history of our country, but in the last century there have been over a hundred million deaths of communism worldwide. The first appearance of such a system was the Council's communication, which was against such healthy values as that of Jobbik, for example, as the nation. After all, we know that it is not the nation that matters to the Communists, but that there is a proletarian dictatorship, a proletarian consciousness in the people, and that there no longer mattered about national self-consciousness, or who should be proud of their own nationality, whether they belong to their own Hungarians or to other nations. This idea was characterized by ecclesiasticalism, anti-faithism, and this was reflected in a number of specific factors, so we are talking about such an idea, and we remember it. Kecelen, as I mentioned, was also remembered in my home town, because in June 1919 in the middle of Duna-Tisza there were a number of small and large riots in many settlements, when the rural Christian, national-minded peasants said that it was enough, that requisitions were enough, that they tried to take from them the crops and everything that could be carried, and that they tried to serve and please the industrial work that was present in the large cities of the Council republic's base. But many said at the time that it was enough, and as a result, Tibor Szamuely or József Cserny, led by the system, set up terror groups that had passed through these settlements and executed people or carried out acts of animalism that I would not even like to mention here. [[13.10]] Kecelen was the same, and Kecelen was 28 victims of this cruelty during these weeks. But this is how Kalocsa, Harta, Cegléd, Nagykőrös, Abony walked along the Danube-Tisza border, and the settlements could still be classified. Overall, there have been hundreds of victims of these weeks, the Cruelty of the people appointed by the Republic of the Council and the Republic of the Council. I am very proud that in my settlement, Kecelen, as a result of a community donation, we remembered the 100th anniversary by 23 June 2019 with a memorial about the 28 martyrs, the 28 innocent people, and this monument will hopefully remind these people or those who pass by forever. I would like to end by wishing that we remember not only the Kecelites, but all the victims, and also remember in the name of what idea they executed these people and committed these atrocities, and in the future let us never forget that communism was capable of such activities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-02-67	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament will take place on 8 July 2019. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
