u2019-06-21-0	Dear Parliament, The 5th day of the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I salute the Secretary of State, my fellow Members and colleagues. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the leadership of this meeting, Mr. Winner and Mr. Dezső Convincible. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, It follows that the general debate and conclusion of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2020 will follow. The bill is T/6322. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/632/4. is available and accessible on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Vinnai Győző to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today. Mr. Messenger!
u2019-06-21-1	Dear Parliament, Today's four-hour timeframe is divided into 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 32 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 26 minutes for the MSZP Group, 19 minutes for the DK Group, 18 minutes for the LMP Group, 17 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 8 minutes for the independent Members.
u2019-06-21-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now take place in the time frame available for today. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that I will give the floor first to the Members who have made themselves known in writing. Mr Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for a speech. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-21-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Based on the figures of the 2020 budget that has been negotiated for the third day now, we can see that it provides additional resources for each sector. We are also trying to show in the budget that each priority sector is equally important, and this is reflected not only in our objectives but also in numbers. In other words, we are not only talking about the fact that every year everyone in Hungary has to take one step forward, and to do so we have to give every opportunity in the Parliament, but also the financial coverage that we are planning, supporting and supporting in the budget. However, it can be said in summary that this budget for next year has two key pillars. One is that, and this is very important for all sectors, that we must preserve the results of the Hungarian economy so far, that it must be preserved in the long term, that we must stabilise it and that, if possible, we must introduce further economic recovery measures. This is also supported by the amendment of tax laws, in which we are pleased to introduce tax reductions for the economic sector and private incomes, which can also be of great help in this matter, including in terms of economic recovery. Of course, the fact that the economy is strong and stable is important to us, because then we can develop Hungary as a whole, all sectors. Allow me to talk today about the other most important pillar of the budget, and this is a further expansion of the family support system. We know that money spent on family policy is a prerequisite for the Hungarian economy to produce the amounts from which we can then return more and more to each family every year. The focus of the 2020 budget is therefore the implementation of the family protection action plan, so we can say that the 2020 budget will also be a budget for supporting families. Overall, HUF 2228 billion will be spent next year in support of families with children and children, which is HUF 220 billion, 11 percent higher than this year and nearly two and a half times twice! HUF 260 billion in 2010. This amount represents almost 5 percent of GDP, which is the same as its time, i.e. from the expected economic growth of 4 percent in 2019 and 2020, and from the result of the surplus work of Hungarian people, families can also participate fully in the future. It should be pointed out that nearly three quarters of the HUF 223 billion surplus next year, HUF 163 billion, is due to the family action plan. Four elements of the seven-point action plan: baby shower support, expansion of the CSOK loan, reduction of mortgage debt for multi-children, and support for large-family car acquisition with the village CSOK will be launched this year. The other three points are the personal income tax exemption for mothers with four or more children, the extension of the nursery development programme and the introduction of grandparents' children next year in 2020. It is important that our family policy continues to be based on the support of responsible childbearing and the priority of work-based benefits. 62 percent of all cash benefits and tax reliefs are already linked to employment, if we compare this with the 2010 figures, then we see that it was only 24 percent at the time. Of the HUF 2228 billion spent on families next year, HUF 457 billion will be spent on various family support services, even more by 4 percent than this year, and two and a half times the amount in 2010. It should be pointed out that, together with the expenditure of operation, wages and space expansion, we will spend nearly HUF 52 billion, a third more than in 2019 and more than four and a half times the amount of 2010. For a free meal, the total amount is 90 billion HUF, 4 percent more than this year, and 42 percent more than in 2010. For free textbook supply next year, we now spend 14 billion forints in full school education compared to 11 billion forints this year and 7 billion forints in 2010, which is nearly twice the latter. We spend nearly 300 billion forints on housing support, 22 percent more than this year, and double the amount of the 2010 source. Ladies and gentlemen, Our aim is to encourage young people to start a family. The measures to be implemented in the framework of the Family Protection Action Plan in the two stages, in 2019 and 2020 aim to encourage children more than ever, to support young people's start-up and home creation, to recognise the efforts of large families, to strike a balance between family life and employment, and to strengthen and modernise Hungarian small settlements. [[8.10]] The government supports the decision of young people to start a family and to have children by taking different measures in part of the risks. With the reduction in the tax base introduced as a first-married discount from 2015, we want to increase the desire of young people to marry. On this title, each newly married couple may benefit from tax relief for two years. The current system of family tax relief is one of the most emblematic measures of the government, which is a major help for young couples with children. From 2019, parents who have raised two minors will be able to deduct a total of HUF 40,000, or HUF 33 thousand per child in the case of three or more children. And who is not allowed to do so by his income, and who has the opportunity to deduct from the contributions. A new form of childbearing support for young families is baby shower support. This is an interest-free, free-use loan of up to HUF 10 million, to which every married couple where the wife is between 18 and 40 years of age is entitled. Interest relief shall be granted during the entire term if the couple have at least one child within five years of taking the loan. In 2020, the government will spend 26 billion forints on baby shower support. I hope that my fellow Members in the budget will also vote in favour of this new measure and support that requires serious resources. From 2020, we will introduce grandparents' lawn. If parents with small children choose to do so, instead the still active, work-related grandparents can stay at home with young children under two years of age. Ladies and gentlemen, 2018 was the year of families. Then we set out not to be just a year, but it was more of a start-up year. From then on, as long as Fidesz and KDNP can form the majority and the government in the Hungarian Parliament, Hungarian people can be sure that every year will be the year of families and children. Support for parents and children, including grandparents, is also highlighted in this budget we are discussing. I hope that these all-good and positive family policy measures will also be supported by the opposition in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention, and for further discussion, I wish you all a great deal of strength. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-21-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr Tamás Pintér, Member of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-21-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, István Széchenyi, one of the largest Hungarians, once said that we should dare to be great. People in Dunaújváros and my district dare to be great, dare to dream big, as the saying above says. I keep consulting with them, measuring their needs together, what they really need. These are real problems that should have been solved years ago. Of course, I am not a naive person, but I still hope that this year instead of pride and aimless willfulness, they will listen to people's requests and see that they must serve their needs in the first place. They don't want stadiums and visual investment. I hope you finally get the message that thousands of Dunaújváros want proper, normal street lighting instead of darkness. I also hope that they will finally vote to settle the debt to St. Pantaleon's Hospital and replace the hatches left for us from the '80s so that patients can heal under civilized conditions. I hope that the everyday need to isolate and renovate urban schools will not find deaf ears, so that students do not have to sit in their coats during winter classes, and that children can go to kindergarten on secure zebra-fed roadways in Adony. I would like to believe that you also believe that the people of Szabadszabolcs deserve to have a decade-long dream, a decent railway subway, built in their city. Road and sidewalk renovations, the development of grace monuments, the development of community spaces, the creation of dog walkers, and the long list of needs that the Dunaújváros and the people in my district would like. Now I ask you to be reasonable, to be generous and to listen to the real problems of the real people and to vote on the amendments that we have drawn up with the people. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-21-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will be a speech from Mr Imre Vejkey, from the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-21-7	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Minister for Finance, Mihály Varga, T/6222. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Social Fund for the financial year 2020 and the European Social Fund for the financial year 2020 and the Cohesion Fund for the financial year 2020 and the Cohesion Fund for the financial year 2020 and the Cohesion Fund for the financial year 2014-2020. The budget for families, because next year's budget has more than HUF 2200 billion available to support families; the budget for families, because support for families is growing to the greatest extent in 2020. Let us not forget where Fidesz-KDNP started and where it came from after eight years of socialist-liberal governance in 2010. We can conclude that in almost a decade the Orbán government has doubled the amount spent on family support, which is thus the highest in Europe, today in our country. Ladies and Gentlemen, While in Western Europe there is a stagnation situation in the economies, in Hungary, in our national economy there is no sign of slowing down European and global growth. However, in view of the trends, we have adopted an economic protection action plan in order to ensure that Hungary's economic expansion continues to be maintained to a similar extent in the context of a possible further strengthening of the European recovery. Our country's economic expansion continues to exceed the EU average by at least 2 percent. This year, an increase of over 4 per cent is expected to continue to decrease public debt and the general government deficit is planned to 1 per cent and we do not engage in privatisation activities. On this basis, it is objectively concluded that our economic growth base is solid. Ladies and Gentlemen, Our 2020 budget aims to protect our economic achievements, in addition to increasing support for families, because it will help us to maintain support for families in the long term. In addition, the strategic objective of the budget is to further reduce taxes, as well as to increase public debt and wages. We also want to increase investment, which would further increase the number of jobs, and we would be even closer to the total employment that we are striving for. Ladies and Gentlemen, The objective of our budget is clear: Hungary should be a family-friendly place, because the child remains the first for us. It is also clear from our budget that next year, all priority areas, education, health care, pension systems, will be able to manage significantly more resources and the income of public finances will also increase significantly. We will continue to take strong action against the threat of immigration in Europe, the risk of terrorism and the adverse consequences on public security. [[8.20]] Therefore, we are going to devote significantly more resources to defence and police expenditure. Of course, I also mean that our fellow countrymen who work there can expect greater financial appreciation, with greater moral appreciation. Ladies and Gentlemen, Next year, with a dynamic growth of 4 per cent, we expect moderate inflation of 2.8 per cent, with a target of 1 per cent lower than ever before. In order to prevent and manage external risks, we consider it necessary to provide a security reserve of 1 percent of GDP in the budget. If we compare the deficit target and the security reserve, we can determine that we are essentially planning with a budget deficit. This means that we can ensure greater support for families, not from the future, but from the competitiveness of our economy in Europe in a unique way. We can also conclude that according to the EU methodology, our sovereign debt indicator will fall to 66 percent next year. This ratio was 80 per cent in 2010. Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2020, a total of HUF 2200 billion will be available to support families, implement the family protection action plan, and in addition, HUF 500 billion will be used to stimulate business growth in the framework of the economic protection action plan. Remember, this year, the higher amount of support for families was HUF 224 billion, the higher amount for education was HUF 48 billion, the higher amount for health care was HUF 184 billion, the higher amount for pensions was HUF 136 billion, the higher amount for public sector workers was HUF 238 billion and the higher amount for extraordinary defense expenses was HUF 174 billion than in the previous year. For example, the elements of the economic protection action plan are the reduction of the social contribution tax on 1 July 2019, which leaves HUF 144 billion forints this year and HUF 156 billion forints for investment, wage increases and development in companies next year. We reduce the small business tax, we eliminate the simplified business tax, we suspend the advertising tax, and commercial accommodation will tax according to a reduced VAT rate. From autumn onwards, not only local governments, but also private companies, will be able to benefit from construction or renovation aid. In order to achieve more and more effective R &amp; D, it will be guaranteed by HUF 32 billion more next year. Ladies and Gentlemen, From all this, we can see that next year's budget focuses on implementing the family protection action plan, because our aim is to make Hungary a family-friendly place. Next year, nearly HUF 224 billion will be available to support families compared to this year. We are convinced that the prerequisite for the growth of families is not only the financial assistance of families, but also their security; security, therefore, we continue to focus on defence and public security issues. We continue to regard immigration in Europe as the most important political issue. Migration is not an opportunity for us, but a cultural, economic and public security risk. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember: we are already providing financial support for baby shower support, the expansion of the CSOK preferential loan, the take-over of the mortgage on children's families and the car shopping program for large families, as well as nursery constructions. Please do not forget that from 1 January 2020 mothers with four children will be exempt from income tax, as well as grandparents. In addition, we will complete the free textbook provision from the 2020/21 academic year. The above measures are based on economic stability. The Hungarian economy is one of the most dynamically growing economies throughout Europe. With the 2020 budget, we want Hungary to grow stronger, and all Hungarians to feel it, too, in their everyday lives. Ladies and Gentlemen, Our fiscal policy aims to achieve demographic stability by strengthening families with Hungarian children and raising them, implementing professional programmes and actions to strengthen family-friendly public thinking, increasing the well-being of families, building a working and family-based society. Therefore, the budget has a prominent role to play in encouraging childbearing, with a strong emphasis on supporting the intention of our non-border Hungarian compatriots to have children, which serves at the same time to strengthen national identity and the link to the mother country. The family protection action plan, which will be launched in July 2019, is a top priority in our budget this year as well. The continuation of these family protection measures in the 2020 budget will be the subject of a four- or more-child mother's personal income tax exemption and the introduction of a grandparents' child next year. With the implementation of the Family Protection Action Plan, the focus of the 2020 budget will be on further strengthening, further developing, and improving their funding situation. With the new measures announced in the family friendly Hungary action plan, families will receive greater support than ever before. Hungary's largest camping programme, the Erzsébet camps, is also implemented from central budgetary sources. Ladies and Gentlemen, Every year, the camping program offers more than 100,000 children from Hungary and more than two thousand children from Carpathian Basin, Carpathian Republic, Ukraine, Transylvania, Felvidék, South Hungary, Slovenia, Slavonia, Hungary's Government provides an ever wider range of children living in the Carpathian Basin within the framework of this programme. In the youth field, the development of the environment necessary for the successful social integration of youth age groups, the improvement of the employment situation of young people, their integration into the labour market, the development of the community, which also strengthens and promotes family communities, the physical, mental and moral development of young people, and the strengthening of the Christian nation-consciousness, the issue of all-Hungarians and national integration, the strengthening of Hungarian communities in the Carpathian Basin, the development of Hungarian youth cooperation: these are our main objectives. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the Christian Democrats support the bill on the 2020 budget; please support it. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-21-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Tobias, from the group of the MSZP, is coming to speak. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-21-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last nearly thirty years, the fiscal law and the laws underlying it can show a very clear picture of the economic and social policy of the given government. As I like to see the relationship between 2010 and the next nearly nine years, I would therefore like to express in my speech both the economy and society, primarily in terms of income, how and how reality looks in terms of numbers, with all the fine political voices that we say both in government communication and in Parliament's debate. [[8.30]] Would the economic policy that devalues our national forint be a success? In May 2010, we had to pay HUF 264 for a euro, today it is 322 forints. This shows that the purchasing value of the euro, i.e. the financial performance of the euro area economies, is 22 percent better and has increased at a higher rate than that of the Hungarian national currency. The government is very proud to keep the budget balanced for seven years, seven years now. The government doesn't matter, of course, we don't have to talk about it, that's the job of the opposition, but we should tell you what price Hungarian society has paid for this, so that you can keep it in balance. Forints 3000 billion have been taken from private pension fund members so that to date they do not face their own promise that these funds will be opened up to citizens' individual accounts, even showing a promise of return... they will have to look at the parliamentary records, they are gone. Forints 1200 billion were withdrawn from health, education and social policy. What I am talking about is the status of 2014 years ago, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen. This is particularly problematic because, in terms of public health expenditure and expenditure on education, expressed as a proportion of gross domestic product, it currently reaches just two thirds of the European Union's average. Health accounts for 4.9 percent of GDP and 3.6 percent of education, while the average of the Member States is just one and a half times higher. The lasting growth of the domestic economy can be proud of it, because we are growing compared to ourselves. On the other hand, if we look at it and it is said here that the globalised world, the globalised economy, forces the Member States, the nation states, to participate in the global competition with greater intensity, then I have to say that if we look beyond the borders of Hungary in Europe, we must see that, while the performance of the Hungarian economy has increased by 23.1 percent since 2010, the average of the European Union is only 12.2 percent. Stop, clap, we're good. In fact, if we look at the fact that the countries of the euro area alone were able to grow only 10,6 percent, this is clearly a fact of catching up on the domestic economy. On the other hand, if we look at the fact that this process is not progressing compared to the countries in the region, but is lagging behind, we should say that Estonia's gross domestic product increased by 35.2% in the same period, Romania's by 35.1 percent, Latvia's by 32.7 percent, Poland's by 31.8 percent, Slovakia's by 25.8 percent, while the Irish and Maltese economies increased by 72.1 percent in the same period. The impact on income of the same successful economic growth-based policy is particularly worrying. How did the income situation develop in Hungary during the same period? I would like to make the statement that in the last nine years, there have been far more people poorer than before 2010. They've lost hope, and they don't see the chance in this budget that their situation will change substantially. According to government communication, in the last three years, the purchasing value of earnings has increased by 10 percent per year, with an average employee's monthly gross earnings reaching 350 thousand forints throughout the year. Reality, on the other hand, is different. In addition to the fact that official statistics show an increase in real earnings of 7,4, 10, 3, 8,4 per cent from 16 per cent compared to that indicated in government communication, this figure represents only the change in earnings of employees who work in the public sector or in companies with at least five employees. They're 3.2 million in total, while the employment rate is 4.5 million. One million 300 thousand people work in this country, and their income changes are not investigated by the HCSO, despite all promises, they do not report the median incomes. The average gross income of 1 million 300 thousand employees is just the same as the guaranteed minimum wage, i.e. 195 thousand forints. Thus, the average monthly net income per employee is barely equal to HUF 200,000. Moreover, this average comes out, honourable Members, that more than two thirds of workers can bring home less than average earnings per month, because the average is 70 percent of the number of employees ranked as income. The absurd thing about Hungary today is that the income average is first achieved at 70%, in the seventh decylis. Let's think about it, mathematically we're learning that the average is the middle of something, so somewhere around 50 percent of the average should appear! Compared to this, it appears at 70 percent. The Ministry of Finance should change the part of the so-called political governance of the HCSO, that, if we want to know the reality, then, in order to communicate the median incomes, the inclusion of employees who employ less than five people and work as self-employed in this country should also be placed on the table as well as those who work in the public sector or in small and medium-sized enterprises. There is a special element in this wage situation. In the public sector, net earnings are shamefully low, with a total of 6.5 percent compared to the national average, in the education sector of 2.8 percent and in social and human health care of 13 percent below the national average, i.e. teachers, health workers, social workers and civil servants are shamelessly low, most of them are forced to work for almost nothing. For nine years, the government has consistently abused the vocation of civil servants, civil servants, teachers, teachers, doctors, support staff, health professionals, social workers. I could list this line for a long time, it would be possible to go very, very far, the key question is not to list everyone, but to indicate in the language of numbers that what you are talking about, in light of reality, seems to be exactly the sphere that government politics is talking about, at the moment it receives its wages below the national average. After several years of falling, it must be acknowledged that real incomes have increased noticeably over the last four years, which are barely above the pre-crisis level before 2008. In addition, the increase mainly affected the higher-income layers and to a much lesser extent the families already living in difficult circumstances. In other words, social differences have not decreased in the last nine years, but have led to a shift in social equality, so to speak. It is particularly sad for me that the most vulnerable remain children and young people. In addition, territorial disparities continue to be severe, and very little is said in the debate by the governing party about how territorial inequalities in Hungary preserve and determine the future in which, for example, the average income in the North Lowland region is only 8.2 percent higher than the relative income poverty threshold. In 2017, the annual gross income per capita amounted to HUF 1 million 644 thousand and the net income amounted to HUF 1 million 300 thousand on average. The former exceeded by 9.3 percent, the latter by 8.4 percent, a year earlier. [[8.40]] In 2017, consumer prices increased by 2.4 percent. Real incomes thus increased significantly by 5.9 percent. This significant increase in income also compensated for the more serious fall in living standards in previous years, so the average net income in 2017 was 19.8 percent in real terms, i.e. slightly above 2010. If we look at income differences in such a way as to divide into ten equal parts all those working in the world of work and making up the population today, then we can also look at the average income of qualified groups, the evolution of income inequalities. The average income of the group with the lowest per capita income was less than one third of the national average, as mentioned above, only 29.2%. The average income of this social group has even decreased significantly compared to the national average. In 2010, it was 31,8 percent, it fell by 2.6 percentage points, and compared to seven years earlier, real income in this group increased by less than half the average. Just to illustrate: while the net income per capita of the person with the highest income per million is almost two and a half times the national average, 239.4 percent, the only group with a relative income average significantly increased by 8.3 percentage points compared to 2010. In society, in the structure of society, there has been a drastic and an expressive sentence, which is also a fatal shift in income and income differences in Hungary. The ratio of one million people with the highest and lowest incomes appears to be 8.1 times the average gross income of those in the upper decylis in 2010 and the change of those in the lower decylis, which was already 10 times in 2017. That means it's increased significantly by 1.9 percent. The net income of the most viable was 7.3 times the net income of those of the lower decylis in 2010 and 8.2 times the net income of those of the lower decylis in 2017. In other words, it increased by almost 1 percentage point, which also reflects a significant income ratio restructuring to the disadvantage of those in the lower income groups. The development of a distorted income structure shows that the national average of net income was reached only by those belonging to the seventh decylis, so only less than one third of society reached this income level. The fact that while the relative average income of those in the ninth decylis did not increase over seven years compared to the national average reflects a greater imbalance, only the income of those in the top decylis increases by 8.3 points compared to the national average. Ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer list all KSH data on the existing KSH data from 2010; I would much rather mention one more topic. It has been said, in particular, by my fellow Members, that it is the year of families; and it cannot be a man in this country who would not be responsible for believing, either through the smallest settlements or through the Members of Parliament, and would not want the situation of Hungarian families to improve year after year. You can't argue with that. On the other hand, if we look at how the translated, quantified instrument system of this policy is developing in the 2020 budget, we can see that the average per capita income of families with children amounted to HUF 1 million 42 thousand in 2017, which was four fifths and 80.2 percent of the national average. The per capita income of families without children was HUF 1 million 549,000, in excess of the national average of 19.2 percent. The difference suggests that family support in communication is stronger than in budgetary practice. Over the past seven years, the per capita income of families with children increased by 20.2 percent, and for families without children by 17 percent. In other words, family tax relief has improved the income position of families with children, but it has not been able to compensate for the loss caused by the conscious depreciation of other family allowances, such as family allowances. In particular, this family policy affects single-parent families, in which the purchasing value of per capita income decreased by 3.4 percent in the seven years under consideration. It should be noted that in this major social problem, the number of these families in 2016 was 155 thousand, in 2017 174 thousand, while the number of children affected was over a quarter of a million, 254 thousand and 265 thousand. In 2017 the net income per capita in these families amounted to only HUF 829 thousand, i.e. less than two thirds of the national average, 63.8 percent. According to the data, families with two parents, three children and several children were only partially helped by the significant family tax relief, most of them were able to make use of it only partially, as their gross earnings were lower than the tax and contribution rates. In 2017 the average net income per capita in these families was only HUF 855 thousand, and not quite 65 percent of the national average. The steady rise in income differences will put whole layers of people in critical situations. But unfortunately, I'd like to say something worse. If this income difference can be preserved in terms of territorially and income in Hungary, then the success that you see now in the performance of the economy in Hungary will stop. Not from the external economic environment, but because it will not be able to provide the economic policy generated for internal consumption, to provide quality vocational training, quality knowledge and quality competitiveness for families in the domestic market. This policy needs to be changed to the extent that the distorted income policy represented by the government must be attached to its economic performance, but let us be a little brave, as I have just said, to the point of dreaming big, trying to achieve equality. This budget is consistent to the extent that, over the last nine years, the government has refused to change this social policy. The consequences of this, however, determine not by changing a budget, but in the long term a common cultural, value-based and livable part of Hungary. Finally, I would like to say that it is not only worth being born in this country, but also to make a policy where it is worth living. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2019-06-21-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State, who is always out of line with the right to speak. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-21-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Congressman József Tobias began his comment by looking at what reality is, what reality looks like, what the situation is compared to 2010. I would also like to remind the Member and the Members of the Parliament who are present about Hungary's situation in 2010. All comparisons, I think, are based on how Hungary experienced the economic crisis compared to other countries, how it was able to recover from the economic crisis in 2008-09, and how countries who were in a comparable or in many cases better position than Hungary responded to the economic crisis. We all know that in the previous decade there have been six years when the lack of public finances in Europe was either the largest or the second largest. Hungary was the only country to have been in a continuous overdeficit procedure since its accession. This meant that our general government deficit reached a European record level of over 9 per cent before 2010. Moreover, not only was public finances in a catastrophic situation in 2010, our public debt was at an extremely high level, but this sovereign debt was practically not financed by anyone. We can recall that the government before 2010 tried to finance public finances at a much higher level than the current level of interest. [[8.50]] But in addition to the fact that our public finances were catastrophic, the real economy was also in a terrible situation. What were our growth rates in the area of 2010, before 2010? Hungary has achieved one of the most significant economic downturns. With regard to the labour market, the activity rate, i.e. the number of people who wanted to work, were able to work, in Europe: the lowest was between Malta and the lowest. Our unemployment rate was above 11 percent, and I could tell you more about the real economy. The important conclusion is that in 2010 we were in a European comparison, both in terms of indicators of public finances and indicators of the real economy, and we had to come out of this situation somehow. So when we compare ourselves to the situation compared to 2010 and compare ourselves with other countries, I would also recommend that you compare Hungary's performance with that of Greece, or that we compare it with, say, Spain's, the Mediterranean countries whose public finances and real economic figures looked back, much better. That is the first thing I wanted to mention. But if we go beyond this and compare Hungary not only with the Mediterranean countries mentioned above, but also with the countries in the region, despite the fact that Hungarian public finances, Hungarian taxpayers, had to pay much less tax burden on their debt service, despite the fact that the employment base was much wider than those of them, the Czech Republic is a country of similar size, with a million more people working, compared with the consolidation of public finances, in recent years we have been able to achieve growth figures that have preceded and exceeded, for example, the Czech Republic or many countries in the region. Eurostat figures are talkative. We can remember that in 2017, the Hungarian economy grew by 4.1 percent, in 2018, by 4.9 percent, and this year the government calculated an increase of around 4 percent, with growth above 5 percent in the first quarter. If I have already mentioned the Czech Republic, where, we know, one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe, one of the highest employment rates, let me mention Czech growth figures: 4,4% in 2017, 2.9 percent in 2018, and 2.6 percent in 2019 by the European Commission. At the same time, the Czech Republic, like Hungary, can grow significantly higher than the European Union average. So my first statement is that if we make a comparison, let's look at the starting point. From this point of view, I think that they can be undertaken, not only can they be undertaken, but I think that the results that the Hungarian economy has achieved in recent years can also be recognised at international level. Then let us look at how, in addition to these results, the indicators of public finances have evolved and the stability that we have seen in recent years, and on which the budget law proposal for next year builds, how the government has achieved it! There was a claim that public tasks, health care, education expenditure had been reduced, which, if I recall correctly, was mentioned by Congressman. Then I would like to state factually that there will be a HUF 770 billion more expenditure for health purposes in 2020, if the bill is adopted by Parliament. In the field of education, this surplus is HUF 633 billion. These nominal surpluses also mean that expenditure in areas is increasing in real terms. Congressman, please check the numbers. The cumulative inflation is around 24.2% to 24.3 percent, which is cumulative inflation from 2010. These increases are substantially above inflation levels. We also calculate that there are surpluses in a number of areas, as Mr Imre Vejkey, Deputy Group Leader, clearly pointed out on the basis of the facts. Let me mention, perhaps, the remark that seems technical, that when we count the expenses to be taken into account under the heading of health, education, culture and protection, then, as appropriate, the government starts from the OECD nomenclature. At international level, the data can be compared, and they will also pass the test at international level when comparing the changes in expenditure in one area in Hungary and in other countries. These surpluses have, by definition, been achieved from the expansion of the economy, and I add, by reducing taxes. The Member also referred to the fact that the reform of the private pension fund system has resulted in budgetary stability and a reduction in public debt. I would therefore like to draw our attention to what kind of bleach measures the government has taken to reduce tax avoidance at international level. What were the steps that brought hundreds of billions to the budget? Online cash machine connection, converting companies' transactions between them into online systems, connecting them to the national tax authority. The transformation of the tax system itself, which primarily encourages work, has resulted in a radical increase in the number of employees compared to the 2010 figures you refer to, by 800 thousand. Thus, both in the area of bleaching and in the area of the transformation of the tax system and on the expenditure side, structural measures have been taken to achieve the stability of public finances with a significant expansion of public assets. Let us not forget this, because we remember from the Hungarian economic history at times when the governments of that time tried to achieve a fiscal balance or a reduction in public debt by selling state assets; we saw the fast. We have seen a different process from 2010: a number of utility companies have become state-owned, and this has also contributed to the wider range of natural monopolies in public ownership. What is more, beyond the performance of the economy, the state of public finances, the spending of areas within public finances, I think it is worth mentioning whether social differences have increased or what the catch-up of a less affluent layer of society looks like. The congressman mentioned increasing social differences, breaking down the poorer layers. In this regard, allow me to mention some facts. First of all, I think that it is not only the rise of the individual that he can live from work instead of aid, not only by increasing his self-esteem, but also by providing an opportunity for greater income. We know that, compared to aid, work, even if this work is not carried out in the primary labour market, but in the framework of the Start Work Programme, can generate more income; this is the first important thing. Today, the number of people who can live from work is significantly higher than those who need some kind of relief. Of course, our goal is for everyone who wants to be able to work. There is still work to be done in this regard, but I repeat that more than 800 thousand people are working today than they were working in 2010, and this has also resulted in an increase in income for individuals. In addition, for those who have worked and are still working, and are looking for, let's say, the lowest income, we see that, compared to 2010, there has also been a substantial real income increase in these low income categories. The Member referred to 2010 as a quasi-comparing comparison between the eight years before 2010 and the nine years now after 2010. Allow me to do the same at the lowest wage, the minimum wage. The net real earnings of minimum wage earners increased by 5.8 percent between 2002 and 2010 if the person with the minimum wage had no children. Between 2010 and 2019, this number is 36.1. Thus, while real earnings growth was 5.8 per cent in the eight years 2002-2010, this was 36.1 after 2010. [[9.00]] But the focus of the government's social policy is on work and family together, which is why people who raise children can also have family benefits according to the decision of the Honourable Parliament. Thus, minimum wage earners who had one child could experience real income loss and real earnings loss between 2002 and 2010 were reduced by 2 percent in real earnings. Between 2010 and 2019, a 49.8 percent increase was observed. In the case of three children, the difference is absolutely obvious, and between 2002-2010, real earnings fell by 7.6 percent, if you were looking for a minimum wage, between 2010 and 2019 this figure was 99 percent. In other words, the net real earnings of minimum wage earners, the poorer or lower earners you have highlighted, have doubled over two years. If we take a look at the territorial differences mentioned by the Member, let me highlight only the unemployment rate. In 2010, the unemployment rate in Szabolcs County was 17,8 percent, now 8.7 percent. It was 16.7 percent in your pepper, now 5.2 percent. In Hajdú-Bihar there was 13.1 percent, now 6.2 percent; I could continue the line. And, of course, there is still work to be done by the government in this regard. I would just like to point out that, in terms of territorial differences, in counties that belong to less developed counties in Hungary, unemployment has also decreased significantly, and actions have also increased. And here I also mention the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, as this measure has resulted in higher earnings on average than in other areas in less developed counties, where wages are typically lower. And finally, allow me to respond to the numbers of the Statistical Office. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, he said that the figures seen in the increase in real earnings are misleading. First of all, let me say that, based on the data of the HCSO, until 2016-2018, we have seen numbers over the last three years, repeating what Mr President said. Real net earnings increased by 7.4 percent in 2016 at national economy level, by 10.3 percent in 2017 and by 8.3 percent in 2018. These data are data determined according to international EU standards and methodology. If such a wage increase has not been achieved, but, in fact, a much smaller wage increase, then I ask the question of how retail sales are expanding, how retail savings are expanding. What is the source, let's say, of the first week subscription of the new residential sovereign debt of nearly HUF 530 billion? Why do we see in the construction industry the demand for housing that we see? So, if there is no such real demand increase, how can we see the figures we have seen in recent years, whether in terms of consumption change, investment or savings? So I think that there really was a need for real demand growth in order for other economic indicators to develop positively. I am sorry to have said a lot, but in relation to Mr President's statements, I think it is worth mentioning facts that show the results of economic policy so far, and on the basis of which we can expect in 2020 that, in the case of low pay categories, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, there will be a substantial increase in real earnings. Please note that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increase by 8 percent. This increase in wages will also be seen in the public sector. There is a budget of HUF 152 billion in next year's budget for raising wages for public sector employees, and we hope that all these expenditure increases, in addition to the increase in family support, can be realised by maintaining the stability of public finances. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-21-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, also wishes to make an extraordinary speech. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-06-21-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to speak to him very briefly. Minister of State Banai has said it perfectly from a financial point of view, and let me, from a sociological point of view, deny what you have said in recent minutes, honourable Member. Fortunately, in all social groups, if we look at the development of poverty, income trends, the development of those exposed to social exclusion, it would be a positive move. I would not present all the data, but what you have said is not factually true, honourable Member, that the risk of poverty for single-parent families has increased, as in recent years the risk of poverty and social exclusion has decreased by at least 40 percent among those raising their children alone or raising their children alone. So here, too, the government's family-friendly measures reduced the risk of poverty for single - parent families. Nor is it real, honourable Member, when you paint a very gloomy picture of the social income differences in Hungary, because if you look a little outside the borders of the country, you may find the surprising thing, otherwise surprising, that in countries far richer than us, with much better financial conditions than Austria or Germany, the World Bank has shown that the social differences between the bottom fifth and the top fifth of society are a little bit higher than in Hungary. I went up here to the website of the World Bank, probably undisputed by you, where you can see in a map-based statement that in Hungary, precisely because we have made a radical minimum wage increase because we have reduced the rent, and therefore the social differences are much smaller than in countries much richer than we are. So I would also like to completely deny that when you say that you are experiencing such a split in Hungary. Of course, it is not excluded, and it is very likely, that the increasing social differences in Austria or Germany are caused by the expansion of the lower social groups through the unlimited admission of immigrants, the growing number of people on the edge of society, the lack of legal income, if any, only by aid, and this creates a huge social tension, since it is a much lower standard of living compared to the standard of living of Germans and Austrians who have been there since then; but in this case, you should support the government's anti-immigration policy. As regards your certificate, honourable Member, in relation to your own measures, allow me to quote Zsuzsa Ferge, your home sociologist, about your performance, who said that in 2008 Hungary was the only state affected by the crisis,, which did not cross anything, nothing at all, a single match, so that something would happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. There's never been a country like this before. At least everywhere, unemployment benefits or benefits or something else have been extended. As a result, we had a particularly high risk for the poor. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So while I wanted to point out in the first part of my speech that the criticisms you are saying are not real, because Hungary has done very well in this regard compared to other countries, and here Zsuzsa Ferge has issued the certificate, that you, on the other hand, did not care about the poor when they had the chance to be in government, and have failed those who were losers of that period compared to other countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-21-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-21-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to admit, I wait every year when Minister of Finance Mihály Varga tells me his exposé. These proposals seek not only to outline figures, but also to outline realities, and a vision that is well-founded and behind which there are opportunities and emergencies. That's how it happened in this expo. [[9.10]] I don't want to deal with numbers. Many people here have dealt with them in abundance. I would just like to point out that it is clear from the ministerial proposal that the three funds, the three pillars that are needed and to be built on, on the one hand, the growth of 4 per cent, on the other hand, unemployment below 4 per cent, and, on the third, the declining debt, on the other hand, they are given, they have been created, they have been provided in 2020 too, most likely, let us add, most likely, but not with absolute certainty, and I would like to mention this. Dear House, The fact is, however, that there is also a fourth pillar on which I propose that the government build more heavily than ever, which is the purpose and potential of saving the population. The past years have shown that, and it is understandable by the population, the population, my fellow countrymen, that, feeling the economic growth that has now reached all social layers, if not equal, but achieved, feeling this, it was rightly thought to be entitled to a better, more favourable life, to use the opportunity that this era gives them. We have now come to the point that more and more people are trying to save and make use of their savings along with a bourgeois welfare. This should be able to channel back where it should be, i.e. to strengthen the national economy. The first steps have been taken, but I do not see them to be fully satisfactory yet, and there is obviously a need for more. Dear House, I would like to point out in particular that it is natural that, while there is growth in all sectors and in all sectors of society compared to the previous year, these are not the same. There are sectors where they are stronger, some where they are less spectacular. However, it is certain that if we appreciate the current system of family support, it is more than simply supporting families, and more is behind it. Behind it is the struggle that I believe is one of the most important problems of the coming decades or perhaps of the century: the possibility of population retention. Because giving more money to families alone is a great thing. There is an abundance of money in Europe, and let's face it, there is an abundance of money in Hungary. It's like, I gotta say, to my knowledge, it hasn't been since the 1880s. After the crisis that followed, there was only one situation in Hungary when there was a real abundance of money. That's the situation today. We do not know how long this abundance of money will last, and we do not know when and how this abundance will end, but that by strengthening families we will provide a lasting economic opportunity for the whole country, that is certain. That is why the HUF 2220 billion that goes to this goal is the one number I have memorized and I say it also means that a population-preservation force is coming. Money alone does not necessarily inspire families to have more children; it is not a question of money, but a question of a lot of spiritual and other factors. Security is one of the greatest factors in this; security is that I know that my family can live safe not today, but in the future and in the following, and I can raise my child if not in prosperity, but along with a civil opportunity. I believe that this is an important element of this budget. The other part, which I would like to point out, is that we also need to see clearly, and we cannot go away from the fact that there are differences in this country per region, which is where a debate has now taken place. These differences did not occur yesterday, not eight years ago, not nine years ago, but as a gift. This potential will not disappear in a few years with this budget. We have to live with this for a while, and we have to live together in such a way that we constantly, again and again try to bring each region closer together and provide opportunities. It is customary to list, isn't it, that we say that there is North Hungary, Eastern Hungary, there is South Transdanubia, there is South Peace, which is about what is mentioned. Now, I would like to refer to the middle part of the Tiszanyút, certain areas of Szolnok County; for a reason, I come from there, and I think I can be such a patriot after all. I am convinced that in this area and ceterum censeo I always say this, the construction of roads 4 and 44 can no longer be delayed, because if we do not open up an area and turn it into the country's bloodstream, then it is futile efforts that we are trying to secure at one point. Therefore, I think that this cannot be postponed, and this must be accelerated. What's to speed up? It has to stop! Dear House, I think that when we talk about rural development, we need to talk about a little more. We must say that these lands, which I have just mentioned, and which I have listed, have the potential and the forces to preserve. On the one hand, it is the kind of industry, opportunity and trade that we are bringing in, because this is undoubtedly the result of the government's efforts, especially in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, BAZ County and other regions of the country, in the previously difficult situation and now in difficult regions. However, what is certainly there, and what will remain, is the land and agricultural land on which we may not have built properly in recent years. There is no certainty and a predictable situation in this area either today, and this must be said honestly. We're missing legislation. It's not a question of money to have a cooperative law. Some may now even say on my side: "Ah, old donkey, he has gone back to something nostalgic, for it is the confederation. It is not possible to stop the spread of latifundiums without trying to spread and strengthen alliances centrally and with central force. The government has its intentions. I see very strongly in the area of new agricultural management that they understand and know that action must be taken in this area. Here, however, I believe that we need to look a little longer than we are dealing with today, and we also need to look at the task of specifically obtaining EU money. This is a primary task for the government, and not just for the government, for everyone who has been elected to the European Parliament today, it is the primary task for everyone to have the money that can serve the rise of Hungary, the Hungarian countryside. Dear House, I told you about the dangers. I would like to make it very brief. When the crisis of 2008-2009 came to an end, more and more smart economists appeared, who said extremely wise things about how predictable this was, what was actually the reason for this, and they classified it and said it. His Majesty II. After such a convention, Elizabeth asked one question: If you knew her so well, why didn't you tell me? What you can now see, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, is that even those who do not yet see anything in the future are speaking ahead. It's not known how much danger this is, but it can be detected. For this reason, on the part of the government and on the part of the financial government, I consider it a particularly high virtue that a security provider has been incorporated into this budget. We need it. I am convinced that the unpredictable foreign policy that has appeared in the world is the kind of trade policy that is causing ever more disruptions in the world, which also represents uncertainties for Hungary, and these uncertainties must be protected. Finally, one last issue: green movements in Europe have been strengthened. You have to see this, the left is weakened, the greens are moving forward, but they're moving forward, the sound is getting stronger. Now they want to create a new situation that, in a new situation, would also impose new obligations on Hungary. I believe that Hungary has undertaken what it knows and what it has. I therefore ask the government, with caution in this area, as has been the case so far, to make clear the possible performances that we can achieve, to be able and to take on, and to those that do not destroy the country's economy. The next few years will be about this, and there will be a great struggle here. I ask all of us to be united in this, everywhere and always, not with different ideological goals, but with the nation's goals as a priority. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-21-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, will be speaking. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This is particularly practical for me to speak after two State Secretary speeches and by Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, because this is an opportunity to have an open debate. By the way, that would be the point of the budget debate, in my opinion, in order to discuss the difference between government propaganda and Hungarian reality, and what is the difference, what is the difference, the very significant difference between pro-government speeches, speeches and the real policy of Viktor Orbán and Fidesz. [[9.20]] Every year, after the budget has been submitted, we see what the government's real policy is, that if we look at the budget figures, we can see what the government is saying, what they are doing or what they are not doing. I would like to talk about this and, in response to Mr Secretary of State, I would also like to support our resolution in many respects with factual data. Our most important statement on the budget is that it is the budget for the future. Allow me, in view of the fact that I am a member of a large rural town, but in the countryside, and in a region that is falling apart, that this statement, that the government is reviving the future with this budget, is basically underlined by presenting such questions. Unfortunately, what we see is that there are a number of system problems that the government denies even the existence of, and the budget figures show that it does not want to face these problems, it does not want to solve them. This is problematic and extremely serious because if the government does not do anything to solve these system problems, it is not the case or in many cases the situation is that it will be much more difficult and more expensive to find solutions in the future, but there will be a number of results of this government policy that can no longer be corrected. What am I thinking? For example, when we think about the drinking water network, the extremely degraded state of the health damage that this can cause, it will obviously be irreparable later, or the environmental burden on the sewer, or if you look at the numbers in relation to the environment, the drastic decline in the budget next year, it will mean damage to the environment and an environmental burden that cannot be corrected later. Speaking of territorial differences, the remote rural regions or small settlements, which are generally in a very bad situation: if the government does nothing to catch up with the rural areas that are falling apart, to stop them from breaking down, then this will be an irreversible process later, mainly due to migration and the demise of many small settlements. My first point is that the government speaks a lot about the countryside, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, also spoke about how important it is to improve the situation in the areas that are falling. I will also have a debate here with Mr. Congressman, and I will also have a debate with Mr. Secretary of State. It is clear that, unfortunately, we have not been able to resolve the catch-up of our regions since the accession of the EU. Unfortunately, at the time of our accession, it was just as it was now, that four regions in Hungary are among the 20 poorest regions in the Union, and the catch-up has not been resolved. If we look at what is happening within the regions and what data we can see: the statistics at EU level or regional statistics do not show that there are huge territorial differences within the region, and it is quite clear that I think there is no debate between us that small settlements are in the worst situation. However, I agree with Mr President that we cannot talk about substantial economic development if it does not reach all regions, it does not reach all settlements. It is also clear that rural development exists only at the level of propaganda if rural areas and small settlements are in such a isolated position that this economic development simply cannot get there and cannot participate in socio-economic blood circulation. We can see that people living in small towns do not have access to the most important public services either, and because of the situation there, they simply cannot get a job in such a way as to keep their place of residence. This is why the migration from small settlements is quite brutal, but brutal from the break-up regions. You can see in the budget that next year the government will spend only HUF 150 billion on the Hungarian village program, including 50 billion for the development of lower roads, rural side roads, connecting roads and connecting roads. This is just over 400 kilometers of rural roads, and it will be enough to renovate a side road. On the other hand, what is the Hungarian reality: according to the official annual statistics published by the road operator, the length of the wrong and inadequate sections of the back road network is 17 thousand kilometres. So 17,000 kilometers of the Hungarian side road awaits immediate intervention, whereas next year the government provides funds for the renovation of just over 400 kilometers of side roads. If you look at the previous statistics, you can see that in 2013 63 percent of the side roads were in such an extremely bad condition, unfortunately 71 percent today. So it seems that year after year, the length and proportion of back roads in extremely poor condition is increasing. So the government is not really doing anything to solve the problem, because we see that the length of roads that the government intends to renew next year is much larger every year. I would also like to ask Mr Bana, Secretary of State, what this situation will result in in your opinion. According to experts, the proportion of roads where repairs cannot be made within the Hungarian side road network is already 50 percent higher. Unfortunately, the situation is not much better with regard to the main roads either. We have heard some very important road development from Congressman Turi-Kovács, but I would draw attention, for example, to road 47. I experienced a rather shocking situation the last time I came on a secondary highway, there were virtually conditions that ruled out that would not be compatible with safe transport, and that there were only such re-enactments. In fact, the entire section of this secondary highway is in shockingly poor condition and we do not see the sources. On the other hand, we can see, of course, that the government is spending huge sums on expanding the motorway network, which may be important, the development of the motorway network in terms of the construction of some of the still missing final sections, but overall, when it is in such a shockingly bad condition and the most important infrastructure in the countryside, the road network, is getting worse, then perhaps these resources should not be spent to expand the motorway network. If we look at the state of public transport as an extremely important public service, we can see here that government propaganda is very strongly different from reality. The implementation of national bus production has often been announced, and this has not been achieved. The development of the vehicle fleet of state-owned transport companies has fallen behind, and as a result, these companies have a very shocking fleet of vehicles and will be forced to face market opening due to EU obligations, which, of course, we do not think is right to open the market for such an important strategic public service, but in this respect, the situation is imposing EU obligations on us. We can see that the amount of public transport support is barely increasing compared to this year: from 349 billion to 383 billion. It seems that it is only a symptomatic treatment, the system problems the government does not want to face in any way. But if we look at what is going on not only with local transport, but also with public transport within the city, then we can see that it is not better there either. We know that there is an extremely chaotic system, so here the system of central sources and price supplements is virtually like a dog's dinner, so the municipalities responsible for the supply can apply ex post, which excludes predictability. And here, too, under-financing is typical, and even the largest rural cities, the largest regional centres, cannot self-solve public transport. What does this have to do with cities? Environmental load, noise load, accident risk, and the rest of it, obviously not even money. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State how he sees this situation, the damage that will arise, if you can say in the technical sense, what damage external costs cause to the Hungarian national economy that these public services are underfunded at this level. Let us look at a very important question, which I have brought to Parliament many times, this is a question of water utility systems. Here, too, we can confront government propaganda with facts of Hungarian reality. And I would like to stress very strongly that I am not talking about the numbers of the opposition, but about the number of the profession. According to the Water Utility Association, the next 15 years would require a surplus of HUF 1500 billion, in addition to the current resources, so that the most important public service, i.e. drinking water, will work. According to the Association of Cities with County Rights, an even greater amount of 3000 billion surplus would be needed, as the Hungarian water utility is in such a state that the network loss is 25 percent, so a quarter of the drinking water produced does not reach consumers because of the extremely poor quality of the network. The proportion of water systems with an appropriate rating has fallen below 20 per cent and since 2012 the number of failures has doubled. Compared to this, we can see that compared to this year, the government will not increase the central reconstruction fund in any way. So again this year, 1.5 billion forints will be spent on this reconstruction and 1.5 billion for the next year, so I repeat that the most modest estimate also puts the value of the additional resources missing for replacement costs at 1500 billion, although 15 years. It's quite clear that I think you know that the water companies are in such a bad state that there's hardly enough resources for basic operation, there's no resources for maintenance. We see an item I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State specifically about this in the budget, that the government is spending HUF 20 billion on supporting regional waterworks. I think the government is facing the situation here that these waterworks are practically falling for the measures mentioned as a positive example by my pro-government fellow Members, such as the reduction of the rent or the introduction of the utility tax. The utility tax has created a situation where public water companies pay taxes on the network also owned by the public, which in most cases makes the operation virtually loss-making. [[9.30]] Now I see a batch of this 20 billion-dollar support for regional waterworks. I ask the Secretary of State to try to deal with this situation. I just don't understand why, if such a item had been put into practice as a lifeline, why didn't the proposal submitted by LMP on the basis of an indication of the profession, a bill on the discharge of the utility tax in the water sector, as it would have been more helpful and an extremely logical step would have been swept off by the government. Compared to this, I think they're practically trying to throw a lifeline to the water companies here. If we look at the support of local governments, not just villages, but also rural cities, then we can see that the government is not facing the existing system problems here, and these are system problems that have been in practice since the change of regime. It was always quite clear that the municipal sector was getting less and less resources to carry out its mandatory tasks, and this caused, among other things, the enormous debt debt that had previously been faced in the context of such a state debt transfer, also in the context of such a fire-fighting measure, but we can see that debt is starting again. I have already had a debate with the Secretary of State on this matter, but I do see a lot of municipalities that are typically forced to indebt themselves through their companies to carry out mandatory tasks. But it is clear that even in the case of metropolitan areas, municipalities are struggling to finance the most important mandatory tasks, I am obviously talking about places where there is no sufficient trade tax, and I am clearly talking about the regions that are falling apart. By the way, in this respect, perhaps my home, the city of Pécs, is symbolic, which, after a debt transfer of EUR 44 billion, is now worth nearly HUF 20 billion, and in this virtual reality, the management of the city, the largest city in Transdanubia, of course, cannot reduce its own mistakes and the mistakes of the Fidesz city administration in this respect. But if we can find that there is no sufficient resources for municipalities to carry out their mandatory duties in the central budget, then tasks such as climate protection, the development of the local economy, the provision of public transport are also an unsolvable problem for municipalities. Well, in this way I wanted to show in large terms why we believe that the government is living up to our future, the future of all of us, with this budget, and why the Hungarian nation is severely affected by the delay in dealing with certain problems. The LMP has tabled more than a hundred amendments to the budget, but of course we have a fundamental problem with the budget philosophy, with the economic, social and environmental policy that this budget reflects, and therefore this budget will be rejected very strongly by the Group of the May Other Political Group. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-21-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ritter Imre, national representative, will be speaking. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-21-19	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary in the last two days, the day before yesterday, I have tried to give a brief look back on the situation of Hungarian nationalities five to six years ago, in what areas we have made progress in the past years, what goals we have, what tasks we have, and what support needs we have for this. Yesterday I tried to detail two key elements of the national needs to be submitted to the 2020 Finance Act, the first point being 56 per cent of the total nationality demand, HUF 4.6 billion of stockpiling support, which serves the investment, renovation and tender share insurance of the building and construction stock of the national governments and the institutions they maintain; the second is a key area for nationalities in Hungary, and HUF 1 billion 315 million, representing 16 per cent of the support needs, is an extension and strengthening of the national minority pedagogue programme, including the minority pedagogue bonus, as well as the minority pedagogue scholarship scheme. What I would like to talk about today is the addition of operating grants to national national authorities and the media, as well as their reserved institutions, which is HUF 734 million, 9 percent of the total demand, the expansion of the NMZ tender framework to be worth 600 million in national minority associations, organisations, schools, which is 7 percent of the needs, finally the operating support of local minority authorities, and differentiated task-based support, which is HUF 592 million, and also 7 percent. Allow me to add a thought or two to yesterday's issues of focus before I get to them. On the basis of yesterday afternoon's consultation with the Education Office and the Ministry of Finance, the most recent data show that 3093 ethnic teachers would be affected or affected by the planned increase from 30 per cent to 40 per cent of the national minority allowance, and the review and extension of the entitlement to the national minority allowance, so that all ethnic teachers would not be entitled to 40, but to a differentiated allowance of 10 per cent or 20 per cent, who spend less than 20 per cent of their working time teaching in ethnic language or between 20 and 50 per cent of their working time, here we are talking about 3,500 ethnic teachers. It is very important to note here that this is crucial, and let me give you a very specific and a little personal example of three of my younger children going to elementary school in Austria, Europa Schule, Gergely is now performing the eighth, this week she took her German higher education exam, the ESD German exam identical to the C1 exam, and before anyone thinks that I'm boasting here out of pride, or that my son is an exceptional talent, of course, I'm proud of him, I would like to say that more than 40 percent of the 65 eighth grade graduates have obtained a C1 ESD higher German language exam, and all the other children, with one exception, passed a secondary German language exam, a secondary language exam, an official state exam. So out of 65 children, there was only one who didn't get at least a secondary German exam in eighth grade. It can be said that, yes, children with such abilities went there, they spoke German at a level like this, and that is true for most of them, but also children who, when they were admitted to the Austrian school, could not speak German, their parents could not speak German, and brought them up to a level by the end of the second year that they were able to learn German with the others, because everything other than Hungarian and literature goes German, and at the end of the eighth year they passed secondary or higher German language exams. We would also like to get here with our ethnic institutions in Hungary, where today, with the exception of one or two institutions which only strengthens the rule, we have no chance that children will get such a language exam at the end of the eighth year, and I have to add that there is much to explain in German, but more than half of the children at the same time, at the age of eighth grade, took a secondary English exam, an official secondary Hungarian state exam after four years of English education. I think that would be natural. If we look at the fact that tens of thousands of students in Hungary are not in eighth grade, they are not in high school, they are not going to receive their degrees because they do not have secondary language exams at the end of the university, then I think it is absolutely justified that we have ethnic teachers who are either native speakers, or at least are able to do ethnic education and education at the mother tongue level. I want everyone's support for this. I think that it is absolutely natural that, as it is obvious with Hungarian ethnic institutions across the border that Hungarian teachers should teach children in Hungarian native language, we must achieve the same in Hungary. [[9.40]] What I think is very important here, and with regard to the nationality bonus and the scholarship, there are several countries again if I only buy German, in Austria, Germany, there is no higher education in kindergarten teachers, thank God, it is in Hungary, and this must be confirmed, but we must make sure that our qualified kindergarten teachers stay at home. For this purpose, it is very important that the scholarship system is followed by national minority education, education and stay in Hungary as a national minority educator on the basis of a contract. I think that what we have started in the education of national minority educators is a huge step forward, and not only to the proper education of the public education institutions of nationalities in Hungary, but also to help the whole Hungarian education by reducing the shortage of teachers. One of today's key issues is the promotion of national minority self-governments and the media. Here, too, I would first like to highlight and emphasise a matter of principle. Five years ago, if any increase in aid was received or approved, it could be placed anywhere with more or less closed eyes, because it was desperately necessary everywhere. Thank God, and I told you this in my lecture yesterday, in support of national minority self-governments and the media, the increases of 2015, 17 and 19 were to a different extent sufficient to resolve the most pressing issues in a normal way. For this reason, we have always submitted our needs on the basis of careful preparation, specific analyses and comparisons by national government in the case of further increases in aid. So, for example, we have examined the annual costs of the general assemblies of national self-governments, how much the President's wages, allowances, reimbursements, how many vice-presidents, what benefits he has, how many committee members, how many committee presidents, how many members he receives, how many councilmen he receives, what benefits he has, how many members he doesn't have in committees, in other special work, what he has in his allowance, and we have specifically shown this to the assembly of all 13 national self-governments. Of course, there are huge differences. There are huge differences, because in the past or previous 20 years, the support was not based on a single system and on separate studies, but more or less on what kind of leader a national was, what political or other relations it had, how successful or effective it was to lobby and act. We would now bring them up to a level of gross coverage of HUF 1 million per year for each member of the general meeting for all nationalities who are at the lowest level in terms of general meeting costs or in terms of support. The other part is that this autumn there will be an election for three municipalities, the Croatian, German and Slovak municipalities, and the number of members of the general meeting will increase by eight, which we would also like to cover with reimbursement. The third very important point for municipalities is that, until 30 June last year, trust rights were transferred to the reserved institutions and, as a trustee, the insurance premiums of the institutions were transferred to the national municipalities. This also means HUF 11.5 million in total per local government, per institution. These are the backbones of the support we asked for. Similarly, at the institutions maintained by the national authorities, we looked at the depreciation and stockpiling obligations of each municipality by institution on the basis of the asset management contracts. That's 202.5 million forints a year. Once again, it should be pointed out that it is not the case that nationalities would always want more and more for themselves after the grants, but, after the very positive progress of the past years, by providing legal conditions for education and cultural autonomy, we are now talking about the fact that the national authorities, local and national minority authorities have taken over more than a quarter of the ethnic public education institutions, maintenance rights and property rights as well. Obviously, these maintenance, investment, renovation and even operating claims and costs appeared with the State earlier, appeared with the municipalities, appeared with Klebelsberg, who were former maintenance owners and trustees. So these demands will no longer appear elsewhere. All these statements and calculations have been undertaken and will be undertaken later, that the 13 nationalities between themselves, knowing each other's tasks, their organizational structure, its historically established operating order... because there is a local government with a backbone of 5-6 within a relatively 25-30 km radius, there is such a thing as the Greek, where Beloiannis and especially Budapest are, there is such as the Serb, which is divided into 3 counties, there is such as the German, which practically has a significant soul number in 16 counties out of 19. There is a completely different institutional network, where national authorities manage it in general, and their institutions are organised at national level, where local ethnic authorities perform a range of tasks. So it is not possible to treat individual minority self-governments in the same way, because each has a different tradition and custom, a different number, a different location, a different motherland, a different language. So there's always a series of specific circumstances that need to be taken into account. We will discuss and debate among ourselves, if you like, carry out and agree openly that we will put everything on the table and agree with each other until we reach agreement between all 13 of us, and everything that belongs to this, these detailed calculations and data have also been sent to all the wallets, sent to all the factions, sent to all independent representatives. So we are not asking for support in a dark hole, but we are asking for support based on precise, specific statements for specific tasks and areas. The third point of focus that remains today is the framework for national applications. I told you here earlier yesterday, that where we started, the 2014 30 million-dollar grant, the HUF 600 per 50 thousand children, is two dumplings of ice cream. A five-day or one-week-old ethnicity, in the majority of cases, is desirable for a foreign camp... and I have also said that this has been increased to 30 million 400 million, more than 13 times in the last five years, which, of course, we thank you very much, because this is one of the fundamental priorities, since we provide the native language camp for primary school children. Here, too, it should be added that in 2019 75.1 percent of legitimate, accepted applications were met by a grant contract for minority NGOs; 50.2 percent of ethnic cultural programmes, that is, only half of them, and 82.7 percent of minority mother tongue student camps, on average 65.4 percent. [[9.50]] It should be pointed out here that they are, in principle and according to the notice, aid intensity of 100 per cent, i.e. non-subsidised and pre-financed tenders. For ethnic student camps: it can be calculated accurately and you can see exactly how many ethnic institutions there are, how many ethnic classes there are. And if we want each minority child to reach a native language environment only once during the eight-year primary school, then it is precisely, objectively predictable that the currently provided framework, the 13-fold frame, is only 25-30 percent of the actual necessary framework. Because the satisfaction was 82.7 last year, unfortunately the application is minimal in the Klebelsberg-preserved minority institutions. There are specific reasons for this, which I hope we can help, which I do not want to mention. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Members, the factions and Parliament to support the support needs and support increases of the nationalities in Hungary in 2020. What I can promise you is that, as we've always done, we will put everything clearly on the table. I think that the tasks and objectives we are fighting for and what we want to do are in Hungary's interest and that is why I am asking for the support. Thank you for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-21-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group.
u2019-06-21-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked for a separate floor because I would like to respond to one of the statements made by Mr Vejkey, Deputy Head of the KDNP Group. You said, Mr Group Leader, that the KDNP, obviously governing parties, still regard immigration in Europe as a very big issue. We absolutely agree with that statement. We, too, believe that taking action against the migration crisis is a matter of fate for the whole of Europe, a question of fate for Hungary as well. However, Congressman Vejkey also said that the governing parties are taking action against immigration. Well, I can no longer see that statement as real. We disagree. According to the LMP, the external borders of the European Union must be protected, illegal migration must be stopped and immigration policy must indeed be kept in national competence. However, symptomatic treatments in this respect are no longer sufficient, the causes must be identified and the causes of migration should be addressed. And perhaps we do not have a debate with the majority of Parliament that one of the main causes of migration is global climate change, climate change. However, we are saddened to see that some of the representatives of the government, pro-government representatives, are almost denying the existence of this problem and the gravity of the problem. But it is clear that the government fails to act. But it is not enough to fail to take action to address the effects of climate change, but to veto that the European Union can act jointly. Yesterday was a veto by Viktor Orbán, and Hungary vetoed the adoption of the common climate goals in a shocking and shocking way. This has made it impossible for the European Union to face one of the most important issues of fate, one of the most important problems. This will have incomprehensible consequences in all respects, but if we look only at migration, we can say that Fidesz-KDNP, the Hungarian government, and the Government of Hungary are actively supporting immigration in Europe and have actively contributed to preventing the management of the root causes of migration and increasing migratory pressure. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-21-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we will now continue with the speeches by their representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Barcza, Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-21-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is a common passion, tourism is a form of patriotism. Allow me, in my speech, to speak about the tourism aspects of the 2020 budget, and to express my position and opinion on this. The Hungarian government regards tourism as a strategic sector. Tourism is one of the drivers of our economy and an important element of competitive and sustainable growth. To improve our tourist position, I believe that it is in the common interest of all parties and the country. But in order to talk about tourism development, we need to look very briefly at what facts are available, what are the numbers of tourism in Hungary. It is important to say that the number of guests has increased steadily since 2010 and the number of guests arriving in Hungary has increased by more than one and a half times, while the revenues of the accommodations have doubled. The year 2018 was also a record year in tourism, domestic accommodations, commercial accommodations, 31 million guest nights. Tourism and catering account for 11 percent of Hungary's GDP, and tourism growth is double that in Hungary. If we compare this with the EU average, we can talk about multiple growth, and it is not negligible that this sector gives jobs to 400 000 people. Ladies and gentlemen, It is known that tourism is an industry of peace. Many may think that this is a sentence that many people are saying, but it is an important thing. We see a number of examples in Western Europe or even North Africa of how certain unfortunate international conflicts or acts of terrorism can destroy tourism in a given region or country in an instant. I can give you the example of Tunisia here, but we can look at the numbers of many Western European cities that represent a decline in tourism. I think that Hungary is in a good position, because we can ensure the safe and predictable environment that is necessary for the dynamic growth of tourism, and the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to keep it that way. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The national tourism development strategy has been completed and will set targets by 2030. I believe that the 2020 budget contains the cornerstones needed to enable the Hungarian government and our country to achieve the targets set in the strategy by 2030. In the budgetary debate, it has already been said that next year's budget can be calculated at higher costs in all areas, both in the fields of education, health and tourism. And now I would like to turn to the most important element which, I think, is absolutely decisive in domestic tourism: the government reduces the VAT rate of commercial accommodations from 18 percent to 5 percent with a decisive step. This is a very significant achievement, and if accommodation places turn back this remaining resource, I think that competitiveness can grow even more dynamically. If we go further, what are the main areas in the budget that represent the dynamic development of tourism in Hungary? I think the first such area is the development of transport. From 1,400 kilometers to 2,000 kilometers, the length of motorways and motorways is growing in Hungary, which I think is very important. It is also very important, because the fact known in domestic tourism is that accessibility is the most important aspect of the decision when making a travel decision, even precedes sights and prices, so that many very nice tourist regions in Hungary that have not yet been connected to the motorway network, or a border area that is happening and that they will be able to increase their tourism. It is important that regional centres are activated and that, by joining the motorway network, major border crossing points and cities with county rights, we are taking a significant step towards making international tourism trips more and more a target for our country. [[10.00]] If we go further on to what is the main area in the budget of tourism development, we cannot go past the. Modern Cities. Many elements of the development of our county-righted cities are development that not only facilitates the lives of city dwellers and residents, it creates not only a more beautiful, livable environment for them, but also a tourism development that is attractive and has great potential for those arriving there. This, of course, is also connected with the Hungarian village programme, as the countryside also has many elements, and tourism developments are also implemented in this area. In particular, it is important to say that according to the Hungarian government's position, which is reflected in the budget, tourism is not supported by point-like developments, but by the government's approach at destination level, which represents the complex development of a tourism area. We are not developing something accurately, but we are developing an area with a fully comprehensive development strategy. I'll get back to you on that. We must also talk about the work of the Hungarian Tourism Agency, whose main task is to manage tourism development and define the strategy. It is very important that they include the development of the tourism brand and its communication and the development of the entire image in Hungary. I consider it very important that, with the support of the Tourism Agency, these funds are included in the budget. The Hungarian Tourism Agency and the Government aim to make Hungary the leading tourist area of Central Europe by 2030. I think that we have all the potential for this, and we need to add in the budget of each year the figures that can represent a dynamic increase in tourism development. The tourism development strategy is a kind of standard for us, and we need to see that the main objective is to increase from almost 11 percent of GDP to 16 percent of GDP by 2030 and to reach 50 million guest nights in my guest nights. The government has decided to define priority tourist areas. These priority tourist areas, I think, are well-known to everyone, and based on the development of the last two years, the development of destination in these areas that I was just talking about is already felt. It is important to say that this year's budget also includes the costs of the Kisfaludy hotel development programme, Hungary's largest accommodation development programme, with which the development of commercial accommodation can continue. This is a very important thing, because quality accommodations, I think, are now present in tourism as a fundamental need in line with new trends. It is important to talk about the continuation of the beach development programme. Last year, 55 beaches of more than 30 settlements in Balaton developed and developed, and this will continue, as the adventure park development continues in our country, whose aim is not negligible to strengthen seasonality to such an extent that it can offer a four-year supply. Let me also give you a concrete example of how the destination-level approach and government subsidies will appear in the budget and the effects of this can be felt in the short term. The constituency, where I can be a member of the electoral council, is Sopron and its region. I think that Sopron and its region with the Fertő Beach are one of the most livable and beautiful places in Hungary. We have good tourist properties, we have good logistics opportunities, both the geographical and the built environment is outstanding, whether we just think that Nagycenk with the Széchenyi heritage, Fertőd with the Esterházy heritage, Sopron as a historic town, Sopron as a cultural city, as the location of the Pan-European Picnic, which we also need to talk about with the 30th anniversary coming up. In this region, the Hungarian government is committed to supporting tourism. I start by saying that the government will build the M85 road from nearly 300 billion forints, which will turn this area into both the international and domestic road network, opening the area. But according to the programme of the modern cities, 60 billion HUF of development resources arrive and arrived in the region, many of which are tourism development programmes that already have an impact. To give some examples, this includes the development of the historic downtown of Sopron, the renewal of streets and squares, the renewal of façades, the renovation of villas, the renewal of the church of St. Michael. But here is the Gunnery Program, which includes a climate-friendly spa, a new swimming pool and a national conference centre. We know that conference tourism is an important aspect at national level, since business tourism has the highest specific spending. But this includes the development of the Fertő shore, which is currently Hungary's largest tourist investment, and a water and ecocenter, which, I think, will be the most livable, best and natural leisure centre on both the Hungarian and Austrian sides at Lake Fertő. I think that, instead of point-like improvements, the destination-level approach is already positive over a few years' horizon. If we go back to national tourism very briefly, the budget of 20 also includes the resources, as in the 19th century, that support for Hungarian festival tourism is included. I think that this is not a negligible aspect, because festivals represent an international awareness, a positive experience and an image for a country. To give some examples, last year in Hungary 152 000 people participated in the Sopron Volt Festival, starting next week, at the Balaton Soundon 165 thousand people, on the Island 565,000, from many countries, and I think that this is a section of tourism that is important for Hungary with these safe, recognised and high-quality festivals. The importance of Budapest is crucial in Hungary's tourism, and there are also many aspects of the development of the capital which could contribute to the dynamic development of tourism in the city. I think that one of Europe's most developing cities is Budapest from a tourist point of view and is very popular. But it is popular with Lake Balaton, Tokaj, Veszprém and many Hungarian cities where tourism develops. I think that it is important to pay attention to the budget of the 20, and also to the fact that tourism trends have changed, and now the improvements that have been there for maybe 20 years are inadequate. We need to give experience, and it is very important to pay attention to these experiences of development elements at national level. These situations have changed. I think that the Hungarian Government also pays particular attention to tourism in such a way that the Tourism Sub-Committee, which deals with these issues, was established within the Economic Committee. I believe that the 2020 budget provides the conditions that are necessary for the growth of tourism, so I ask you to support this and support the Hungarian government's ideas in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-21-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and we will continue the debate. Mr Tamás Csányi's speech is coming from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-21-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Allow me, as an opposition representative, to be a little more grounded in my speech than that of Congressman Attila Barcza. I would like to inform this House that Jobbik has done its homework, and we have tabled 554 amendments to the budget with a view to improving it. Since we have looked at the global part and many have analysed it in many ways, allow me to focus more on these amendments and to say in the House what I myself, as a Member of Parliament, thought was important. I would therefore like to talk about the amendments that I have tabled to the budget. I can divide them into two parts. One is a set of proposals for a general amendment and the other concerns my constituency, so please forgive me for going into specific matters here. I would like to start with amendments to the law enforcement bodies, since the public service and police salary base has remained unchanged since ancient times. Anyone who hasn't been discharged from the police force will surely leave this field this year because of the lack of an increase. But in the same way, in the public service and despite the small increase, underpaidness is a constant source of tension in the defence. They try to replace the loss of numbers with overtime, which means that the government has not planned any resources for the redemption of the overwork next year. The specific figures are as follows. According to the 2011 Public Service Officers Act, the salary base is 38 650 HUF in 2020. Under the 2015 law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies, the salary base is HUF 38 650 in 2020. According to the 2012 Law on the Status of Patrons, the salary base is HUF 44 600 in 2020. The Jobbik Hungary Movement believes that in order to make the career more attractive, it is appropriate to raise this salary base to 60,000 forints. [[10.10]] It would also be time to increase the amount of cafeteria that has been unchanged for years, because with the tax burden, there is little to spend on the employees, so we would like to change the 200 thousand HUF cafeteria to 400 thousand HUF. And speaking of overtime, emigration from the police force is on a tremendous scale; as we know, taking away the non-enhancing salary base and the cash payment of the cafeteria and overwork pushes the professional staff towards disarmament, who chose their police career as a career in life. In order to prevent this harmful process, it is necessary to provide a source of compensation for the over-service, since the budget before us, as we have already mentioned, does not have an amount in this respect; such an outstanding case occurred last time in 2016. We know the arguments in this regard that overservices can be redeemed in freedom, but the practice, as I have already said in a previous Parliamentary question, does not support this, dear fellow Members. The rapid deterioration of the stock does not allow workers to benefit from freedoms. We believe that it would be possible to cover this in extraordinary government measures; 3 billion forints have been planned for overwork so far, I think that it is possible to do so now. Overall, in this regard, we can say that we can see a rise of barely above inflation compared to last year, which will not keep the current stock, nor will it make this profession more attractive. If the government wants to keep the law enforcement agencies, if it is thinking long-term with this sector, we believe that there is nothing else a responsible government can do, then we need immediate drastic measures that may be painful for the budget, but are essential for the nation, for the country. The question therefore arises, dear fellow Members, as to what the government intends to do with the police. And while we were talking about the police, it is also about the border guard, as the migratory pressure seems to have eased, but the border is still guarded by a large number of policemen, as we can read on the union website, Potemkin protection will be achieved here, in impossible circumstances. These police officers are being removed from their duties, missing from law enforcement. The real and final solution to the fence would be the establishment of a border guard to protect the country, which Jobbik has been calling for in Parliament for the ninth year now. We believe that HUF 20 billion is sufficient to carry out the grounding and preparatory tasks, and that from then on you can think about setting up the border guard, and that the police can be relieved of the burden. Let me draw attention to another measure to improve comfort, in the case of police uniforms, since the uniform and the quality of professional members leave a huge amount to be desired. It has recently been found that even the police's economic management did not meet the quality of the summer uniform that the police ordered for the staff members, so they sent it back. Instead of assigning dude companies, they should finally be contracted with market players who are able to provide the right quality, because the current uniforms are not suitable in winter, the police are warm in summer, synthetic, non-ventilated, and the footwear is better not to talk about, because they are completely unfit for their purpose. Even if it is not possible to equip everyone with the same quality of clothing as the TEKs have been able to carry out, the police officer should, in our opinion, be able to perform his service in comfortable, functional clothing. High-quality products are already available, much cheaper than the price of TEK-ordered clothing, but in a much better quality than the current one. In order to achieve this, it is also necessary to increase the expenditure in rem. With these measures, we believe that this profession could be made more attractive, and we believe that this is an essential, immeasurable task for the government. Allow me to move on to the amendment proposals in the constituency. I live in the 4th constituency of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, and I am pleased that Béla Turi-Kovács was present earlier, if I have seen it correctly, and the President is here when I say these things, because they know these problems. In agreement with my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács, the development of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County cannot be delayed, and I would like to refer here in particular to the completion of the M4 motorway, which is inevitable for these reasons; I would not repeat them now. However, our constituency centre, Törökszentmiklós also deserves a little attention. We would like the rehabilitation of the city centre to be achieved, as Törökszentmiklós celebrates his 300th anniversary in 2020. The abandoned building, known as the Pyramid, is depraved in the centre of the city, and the municipality does not have sufficient funds to complete it. We believe that, since the municipality has not received EU TOP support for this, a government help will be needed, and if the proposal is supported, Törökszentmiklós, one of the most important agricultural cities of the Great Plain, could welcome the 300-year anniversary of the Jubilee with an impressive, torso-free city centre. We would therefore like to ask for the support from the budget. Let me concentrate on my narrower Patriot, Mezőtúr, for a few thoughts. The renovation of Petőfi Sándor Street in the heart of the city is essential, so it should be a priority. This street connects road 46 through the city to the city centre. In the street there is the police station, the notary office, the Reformed College of Mezőtúr, the high school on the other side, and that is why I am pleased that the President is here. From here you can reach the Catholic primary school, the Catholic church, the Central Reformed Great Church, the Teleki Blanka High School and the Liberty Square residence by car. Here was built a new residential park, which also increases the traffic on the street, so it is necessary to renovate. 40 percent of the inland roads of Mezőtúr do not have a solid cover, so it is essential to repair the ground roads and provide a solid cover for XXI. In the century, I think, dear fellow Members, giving the population of Mezőtúr a minimum level of comfort. At the intersection of the already mentioned Petőfi Sándor street and the 46 main road, the construction of a roundabout is essential because of the volume of traffic, which could make the transport of the population and transit traffic smoother. At the same time, the Hortobágy-Berettyó main channel runs through the city, and the revitalization of this also seems essential to us. Now the area that I would like to talk about next week has been hit by fish mortality, but it is now that the completion of a revitalization procedure is essential, which the current city administration would have wanted to create, but this was not possible, referring to the continued lack of resources. There are already existing proposals for this, so they should actually only be taken out and allocated the appropriate resources from the budget. In the case of the hospital in Feltúr, we have found that according to the latest data from the State Treasury, it has a deficit of HUF 110 million and its debt to the hospital, thus serious under-financing is virtually unsolvable problems, and we would like to move some items here, so that this can be solved. I would like to talk about two things very briefly. Cserkeszolo is one of the top tourist centers of my constituency, where the revitalization of Lake Nagy-Fertő is also an essential task, and the establishment of a nursing home in this settlement, which is also considered important by the inhabitants in consultation with the locals. All these amendments have been presented, in our view, by forwarding and making everyday life easier and more livable, and I would therefore ask not only for the support of these proposals from this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-21-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Gergely Tapolczai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-27	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, One of Hungary's most important laws is the Finance Act. Hungary, the most important debate of the Hungarian Parliament, is the debate on the fiscal law. [[10.20]] For years, there have always been high-priority targets, which are strongly supported by the government, the Parliament. These always include increasing employment and reducing unemployment. This includes supporting the employment of people with disabilities. In 2019 the government supported this goal by HUF 42 billion, and 365 accredited employers achieved nearly 31 thousand jobs. This amount will increase by HUF 120 billion this year, helping people working in this area, people with disabilities, and companies employing them effectively. At the same time, there are people with disabilities who are not fit, able or employable. Some of them need home care, support for their families. I do not want to talk about the amount of the home care fee, the home care fee, and everyone knows that we have raised our support to a significant extent. However, what I would like to emphasise, I suggest that it is also worth supporting this direction more. I am thinking of supporting home support services here. It is worth approaching this problem in such a way that we can help parents and family members to return to the labour market, for example, by increasing employment rates and by using different professionals who can help in home care. This would also increase the proportion of workers. There are also people who are being treated in institutions. That's what the home of autists is connected to. This is about supporting homes for mentally disabled people with multiple disabilities. This amount of aid has remained unchanged for years, but there has been an increase in demand for these institutions and a parallel reduction in per capita aid. It should also be seen that ejaculation is a complex process. In some places, this process is taking place much slower, and that is why I propose that we strengthen the housing homes that provide these people until the whole process of disemboweling is complete. I would also like to underline that support for non-state social supporters has increased enormously by 2020. This year there was 103.7 billion forints in support of this, and next year there will be 120 billion forints in support, thus contributing to the minimum wage increase and the expenditure generated by the increase in the minimum wage. There are also advocacy organisations representing these people with disabilities. Compared to 2010, these 13 major national advocacy organizations can manage three times as much by 2019 and 20: 1.1 billion forints. At the same time, these organisations are also affected by the impact and consequences of raising the minimum wage. I would also like to propose that these organisations be given additional resources to cover and cover these expenditures. It is equally important to support the provision of sign language translation services, the basic rehabilitation of the blind. The two major projects related to them are the Contact Sign Language Interpreter Service, a video-based interpreter service, and the TeleSzem service, which works on the same principle of helping blind people and visually impaired people. There must also be adequate resources for the operation and maintenance of these, and I would like to ask for additional resources in my proposal to amend this. Last but not least, I would also like to touch on the field of sport. We can see in the draft budget law that there will be nearly 1 billion HUF more funding to support the Olympics and competitions compared to this year, 3.11 billion forints instead of 2.12 billion, which is a huge step forward, of course, but I also have the question that next year there will be not only Olympics, but also paralympics. The draft budget does not reveal to me from which source the preparation and participation in the paralympics will be covered. During the sports of the disabled, there are 460 million forints, the same as this year. I do not think that this will support preparations in Paralympics, so I believe that there is a need for additional resources in this area as well. It is not clear on which line this can be achieved, and I have tabled an amendment to this, and I would ask you to provide additional resources to ensure that paralympics are included in the Olympics. It is equally important to support preparation and participation in special world games and deafly lympics. I would like to ask for an answer to this question, whether there is an additional source of funding, or which line supports these questions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-21-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Dezső, Member of the Parliament's notary. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I find that we are creating a tradition, because this year we are in the same situation as last year when we plan this budget in the absence of any facts, so I dared say that we are practically creating a tradition, although I hope that this will not continue. It is also due to the fact that I would be willing to place a large bet, which can already be enveloped, that in the coming period we will amend this by dozens of government decisions. This is why the figures would be relevant, since the figures thus amended could show a significant difference. I know of significantly more insignificant organizations who dare not plan to plan the future without knowing the real facts. I find that if I turn on the television, the radio or open the newspaper, now slowly the water tap, then everything is going on about what great results we have achieved and how the Hungarian economy is killing me. I think it's much more nuanced than that. It's important that everything is handled in its place. I sense that, according to all international coincidences, European Union statistics, our country does not catch up, but is lagging behind in comparison with others like us: Slovakia, Poland or Estonia. In the case of Romania, it can be seen that he is catching up with us by a thousand. I don't think it's right to take some data out and have a kind of success propaganda, and keep it quiet about other numbers, other events, facts. If we listen to something, it obviously means that we do not care about it, and we will not find a solution to solve it in some way; we will not listen to the fact that the forint is worth 21 percent less now than in 2010. It is worth hearing the opinion of an authentic person about this fact. [[10.30]] It sounds like: "The weaker forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people, the weaker forint means a weaker state, and weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. Orbán said this to a great surprise. I see no indication that this issue is being dealt with in the budget. According to my perception and my environment, that actually means they're taking money out of people's pockets. It is a shame to remain silent that the government debt has now increased from HUF 20 000 billion in 2010 to HUF 29 382 billion. It's a shocking number, and we're not talking about it. We're not gonna talk about it, we're not gonna want to do anything about it. Or to keep quiet about the fact that the Hungarians in our region feel the most corrupt of their own country: in five years, we managed to make the inhabitants of Romania, which has been considered the most corrupt, feel better about their own situation than they do here. A budget is, in good times, a balance of interests. In our case, this can be a ranking of interests at best. In such cases, however, there is a great deal to be said about who are the ones whom we do not talk about, who are the ones who are consistently left out. People who aren't important. I have found that those who are not spoken of and who are left out of everything are pensioners who have been struggling for years to preserve their dignity and maintain their safety. Before the budget was negotiated, quite a number of pensioners' organisations were able to read their views on the budget. They tried to show their opinion. I learned from this that what they think is important is that the social contribution tax paid is not redirected to other areas. In their terms, I do not know how real this number is, if it is true, then the rate of redirection is astounding at 70 percent. Think about this: if this number is real, 70 percent of the social contribution paid will be used for other purposes. That's what they resent. They are insulting not to plan the consumer price index again. In 19 it was planned for 2.7 percent; as far as I know, we are currently at 3.9. By 2020, 2.8% is planned. I'd be willing to make a big bet on that, too, that it won't stop at less than four percent. The point is to pay more attention to pensioners! I think they deserve it based on their years and their past. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-21-30	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr János Volner will now take the floor. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As the timeframe is short, which is at the disposal of the non-attached Members, I cannot grasp the budget as I would have liked, but I would like to talk about a few very important things. There is a consensus among economists around the world that it is worth pursuing a state's countercyclical economic policy, that is, an economic policy which, when the economy and economic activity are well underway, accumulates, and when the recession occurs, there will be crises in the world that are usually returning, and then, by stimulating the accumulated reserves, the economy will be mitigated by the consequences of the emerging crisis. I have been representing this within the Parliament since 2010. I regularly said and drew attention to the need for this. We have provided the government with our proposals on this, but we have seen that this has not been implemented in practice. We have always looked with confidence at the emergence of a reserve within the budget of a hundred billion, which should serve this purpose in principle. In practice, however, these reserves looked as if the government had treated it as pocket money, and these funds were spent in no small part by the budget according to its own taste and political goals. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that analysts are already talking about the emergence of real estate bubbles in the US market and the emergence of stock market bubbles. This is quite converging in Europe, the first analyses of the beginning bubbles have been published in Hungary as well. There is a substantial price surge in the price of some shares or even in the real estate market. The market tends to correct this by having a rather crudely rapid reaction, a temporary decline until this correction is made, and in the time of the temporary downturn, economic growth does not slow down, but is very often negative, i.e. an economic decline. If the country does not have enough reserves to get through this period by stimulating it, the result of the crisis is more serious. In general, this was the international experience practically everywhere. Since I see a Secretary of State sitting here, who has demonstrated specific professional expertise in recent years, I will ask Mr State Secretary to respond to this in substance during the debate. Everything about this, please be kind enough to tell us how the government sees the need for this. The other issue I would like to draw your attention to is the question of Hungary's external exposure. Hungary is basically using three significant external sources to grow its economy. One is the return of Hungarian citizens working abroad, which has already exceeded the annual volume of HUF 1 000 billion, so we are talking about an extremely large amount of money, and the other is the European Union funds that we practically use; thank God, and the European Union does not give this money as a favor. Third, we can name the investments of foreign companies, especially automotive companies. However, I think it is very important to draw attention to the fact that we need independent Hungarian brands, because if we join the bottom of the production chain and are only able to provide labour for the operation of foreign businesses established here, then only labour wages can be realised by the Hungarian nation, but we will not be able to realise capital income. We're going to fall because they're going to move to the capital owners. So it would be particularly important for the government to stimulate the economy in a targeted way, to use tools that enable successful Hungarian brands to grow first on the Hungarian market, and then to move on to foreign markets to increase potential growth opportunities. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2019-06-21-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the second round of speakers. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor from the Jobbik Group to Mrs Potocsáné Kőrösi Anita. Here you go.
u2019-06-21-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Attila Barcza's speech encouraged me to say a short, two-minute reaction. The Hungarian Tourism Agency Zrt. rang dichymnus. the way it works. It is very useful to have yes, there is now a tourism development strategy. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that it is June 21st, and we are now in the process of making investments that have practically knocked out the security for the mayors of several southern coastal cities. Fonyód, I would like to mention the settlements of Balatonfenyves. This is also problematic because holidaymakers and foreigners meet while building the brand of country, while they are already bathing and enjoying themselves on the shore of Lake Balaton, so they find themselves facing grabbing cars and different machines. What I wanted to say during the budget debate in 2020 is that we very much hope that it will be possible to develop beaches next year, and although we have repeatedly objected to the fact that these budgetary debates, the adoption of the budget law, have been taking place in the summer session for years now, but this is a good opportunity for the Hungarian Tourism Agency to prepare for the launch of these proposals in time, and do not put these municipalities into the same mess in the year 2020 that they are explaining, and they feel that they are not doing their job well, even though they seem to have fallen into this problem without their own error, which is a very, very serious problem in the summer season 2019. Let us hope that this will not happen in 2020. [[10.40]] So in this, I ask your cooperation to tidy up the Hungarian Tourism Agency. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-21-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-21-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have already talked today about why we believe that this is the budget for the use of the future, and I have said that the government is not facing certain extremely serious system problems. So we have explained in detail what the Hungarian government does not spend enough or spend enough, but I would also like to say briefly that it has some big projects for the government, cherishing some big projects that are not only in our national interests, but are particularly against our national interests. The Paks II project, which is worth thousands of billion forints, should be mentioned here in particular, we all know that. It has also become clear in recent years that all the arguments for launching the project have already been resolved. The government handed this project over to the Russians without a tender, but the Russians were not able to make plans in line with Hungarian and EU standards, so the project is already in a huge delay. Some members of the government cannot decide between themselves whether they have managed to amend this loan agreement or not, but it is quite clear that there will be no new blocks when this loan has to be repaid. The argument also failed that the electricity produced would be cheap, as I mention only one item: they did not include the costs of disposing of decommissioning and high-activity waste, which would cost hundreds of billions. And it should also be said that in the case of high-activity nuclear waste, nuclear waste management, technology, funding and location have not been solved. This project will be spent more than HUF 70 billion on the government budget next year. Another project I would like to discuss briefly is the Budapest-Belgrád giga project, which will be close to 1000 billion with interest. This does not indicate any substantial domestic transport and transport needs, it is only good for the companies linked to Lőrinc Mészáros and for the companies of the Chinese railway company to be fattened by hundreds of billions. The government will spend 60 billion forints next year on this never-reimbursing project. We have already talked about this with the Secretary of State, only this one item exceeds what the government devotes to the development of the road network in a very degraded state of the countryside in the framework of the Hungarian villages programme. This is an outrage! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-21-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I ask my fellow Members that someone wishes to speak within the framework of the two-minute speeches. [[No signal coming through.]] I don't see any contact. We will move on to the third round of speakers. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I would like to say a few thoughts about the Ministry of Defence chapter, but allow me to reflect in a few sentences on some points in the course of the debate that I have followed. To respond to Lóránt Keresztes: the so-called green or environmental position that strongly opposes one of the lowest emission-related energy projects is Paks II. Let us look at what has happened in countries where this otherwise rather strange position has taken place, for example, in Germany. They announced a program for the shutdown of German nuclear power plants, and in exchange for electricity, we need to light it up, because even the greens don't say that everyone should be at home in the dark anymore, and that we should stop the industry that's going with electricity, the Germans have restarted their horribly bad emissions coal power plants. So this has done far more harm to the environment and to the reduction of emissions in the context of warming than anything else. It would have been smarter if they had returned to the diesel engines with the vortex chamber because they had lower emissions than their brown coal power plants, by the way. It should be made clear here that Paks is the construction of one of the largest plants capable of reducing emissions and generating high emissions. We would obviously like to build huge hydroelectric power plants, but surely you know that this is not possible in Hungary because of the geographical conditions. We'd love to build tidal power plants. We can't do that. According to current knowledge, the nuclear power plant is the lowest load on the environment among non-renewables. The opposition to this is a program that doesn't make any sense, because either we're doing something about emissions and trying to protect our environment, and we're doing something about warming, or we're not going to do something about it, but the two are not going to go, together we can't represent the two, because the program is to turn off the lights, turn off the service, and look at each other in the dark, and this doesn't make any sense. The other thing I would like to say is that, frankly, I was surprised at the voice of my fellow Member, who spoke without mentioning the year, that we are planning the 2020 budget without any actual data. But since we are talking about the 2020 budget and now it's 2019, let alone the government, but nobody in the world knows the 2020 figures. However, if you are referring to the 2019 fact data, it is obviously impossible for someone to take account of the fact that they do not know the 2020 figures factually, the 2019 figures, since there has been public finances in democracy, have always been planned and discussed the next year's budget since 1990, otherwise the Parliament has not been able to discuss the final accounts for the previous year. This is close to each other in the autumn when we discuss closing accounts. However, according to the whole economic statistics system and planning system, we are discussing next year's budget everywhere in Europe on the basis of estimates that are not based on the actual figures of the reference year, i.e. 2019 or 2018 because they are always necessarily estimates. This is explained by the internal logic of public finances and the timing of its revenue side. We could think of changing this, but I will give you just one example: it is quite clear that not all public sector sectors are working in the same budget schedule as the central budget. For example, the central budget is based on logic 1 January and 31 December, and the entire education system in a September-July. Therefore, the budget cannot be planned for a given future in the spring of the year, because we do not know how many children will enroll in September, because there is no way to know. Now, not to mention that no one can tell us how much we are trying to do, that if we close a reference year, those items are very important for the budget, which are necessarily moving because the application can be planned in connection with the demand. I will give you an example: in the case of law enforcement organisations, the rule of payment of over-services is that they either ask for it on leave or in money, but we cannot say in any way what people will say in 2020 about the over-service that may have been ordered, in money or in freedom, and this is not a small item, but it seems small. I'll tell you something completely different, otherwise it's obvious to everyone. The whole economy and taxation, by the way, prepare the balance sheet report, which records the facts, in May, so it can actually be corrected. So in this sense, what Dezső Believing is asking us to do, he didn't realize that we have been working this way since 1990. I would like to say one more thing that Dezső Believing was shocked: the external debt has indeed increased nominally and is now at about HUF 29 000 billion. I would just remind Mr Believer that after eight years of socialist governance, in 2002, he was taken over by 6,000 billion, and in 2010 he was handed over by 21 500 billion, so you doubled it. otherwise, in the meantime, economic performance has decreased over several years. [[10.50]] It is no coincidence that government debt is not nominally calculated anywhere in the world, this can be followed very easily. If you consider that there are two people, both of them owe a million forints to your bank; it doesn't matter that Sándor Csányi owes his bank a million forints, because his monthly income is higher than this, or he has an average income, because he doesn't have a million forints per month. So we are always looking at a ratio of government debt, and this is, as a matter of fact, the size of GDP. It is also possible to object to whether it can be compared to the size of GDP, how well it is justified, but everyone in the world is doing so, and it is an interesting theoretical debate to discuss whether or not GDP, GNI, or I do not know what it should be related to. But there is no doubt that under your governance, government debt has been increased from 50 percent to 80 percent, and we are now constantly reducing it, and as a realistic goal, it can be achieved that the downward trend of public debt is maintained by this budget. It could be said that this should be done on a larger scale or that the pace is not sufficient, one thing is certain, we are, Fidesz-KDNP is the first government to adopt a two-thirds law that has committed itself to reducing public debt every year. This has been the case in the United States, but almost no government has taken this risk, and we have taken it because we feel responsible for the Hungarian people and the Hungarian state. Mr. President. Dear House, In the context of the defence budget, I would like to state the following facts. The national defence budget in 2010 was below HUF 300 billion, now HUF 616 billion in defence spending, so the fact is that we doubled it in nine years. If we look at GDP as a percentage, then in 2010 it was 1.1 percent of GDP as a total defence budget, and now it will be approaching 1.5 percent in 2020. Let's add that Mr. Believer knows exactly what I'm referring to:, hundreds of budget tricks you don't need to know about, said Ferenc Gyurcsány at the ominous autumn meeting. In the context of the defence budget, this meant that the defence budget included pension payments for retired soldiers with early retirement because it was booked there. I don't have to say it's a trick, but otherwise, the ability of a country to defend itself is not influenced by the fact that the defense budget is good enough to pay large amounts of pensions, because otherwise, you have to look at how much you spend on defence expenditure. If we use this to correct the figures, then in 2002 the ratio of defence expenditure to GDP was around 1.9 percent, which meant that it was below 1 percent. In 2014, the Government of Hungary undertook the NATO commitment, which is only an expectation, and the NATO Treaty does not include the 2 percent mandatory ratio of ominosus, namely that each member should spend 2 percent of GDP on a defence budget, but after the other NATO Member States have decided to do so, Hungary does not want to exclude itself from this, and we have also agreed to reach 2 percent by 2026 in the framework of the Zrínyi military development programme. This is also a very significant increase in nominal terms compared to the previous period. If we consider that, in the meantime, inflation is unprecedented in the period of modern economic history since the change of regime in Hungary and is now relatively low, a significant part of this increase is also very significant in real terms. And I have to say that the development of the Hungarian Defence Service to this effect confirms what we say about Hungary's security, that Hungary must be protected, that Hungarian defence is an extremely important area for Hungary. Because despite the illusion that we are in a very long period of peace, I have to say that since the regime change, so since 90, if someone looks at it, it has been several years since one of Hungary's neighbouring countries had a war or a civil war, like when it didn't happen. It started with the South Slavic crisis and the Romanian civil war in connection with the change of regime, and by the way, the Ukrainian-Russian debate, civil war, war, frozen conflict, no matter what we call it, it means that there is an effective war on the eastern border of one of our neighbours. In addition, Hungary has fulfilled all its international obligations, despite what seems to be a period of peace here, so since we are members of NATO, we have been involved, and with no small effort in the country, in the international missions to which we are partly responsible and bound by the UN, partly by the EU and partly by NATO. The Hungarian soldiers were excellent at this, and I must say that the Zrínyi military development program, along with the wage development programme of the service soldiers, guarantees not only the protection of the country, but also the enhancement, improvement and strengthening of the country's defence capabilities. And all of this, by finally starting what has to be corrected today in the context of bad decisions after the change of regime, namely: Hungary has renounced all existing military technology and weapons production and has released this while making a country extremely vulnerable. And today, in Hungary, small arms production has started, but of course we would like to rely on the Hungarian industry in the development of the army in a number of areas, and to strengthen the cooperation between the V4 countries and the Hungarian economy with this policy. Overall, I would like to ask the fellow Members to support the budget submitted by the Hungarian Government. This budget is basically a family budget. This budget provides the basis for a catch-up policy in which Hungary wants to reach the average level of development of the EU countries. Overall, this applies to all areas, and we attach particular importance to Hungary's defence capabilities and to the development of the army. Finally, I would like to thank the Hungarian soldiers for their position so far, both at the southern border and in international missions. Wherever we have been, my opposition colleagues can confirm that they have also been involved in visiting these missions, we have heard everywhere that Hungarian soldiers are exemplary and exemplary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-21-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, I would like to announce that the KDNP Group has informed me that they are transferring their timeframe to Fidesz. Please take this through our technical colleagues. It is now up to Ander Balázs from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-21-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Then I'll pick up the thread that our colleague Lajos Kósa dropped here. In connection with one opposition speech, he criticised the fact that sovereign debt cannot be nominally assessed, should be seen as a proportion of GDP and how well the country looks. Well, then, let's also refer to educational expenses. I think that, then, my fellow Member, would be fair. And if we do so, we can see that the Hungarian education business took 10.1 percent of the total budget cake last year and this year. This represents only 9.7 percent of the budget for the following year, so there is a step backwards. The entire pro-government propaganda door was rumoured that the area of education will receive HUF 48 billion more in Hungary for the following year. My fellow Members, this HUF 48 billion surplus will not cover inflation, that is what it is. [[11.00]] And if we keep looking, you're obviously not gonna like this, but I'm telling you that you're going to spend as much next year as the Ripper family is going to shovel out of their companies as extra profit. How will this be a successful country? How will this be a recovery? And how will we be the fifth most livable country in Europe by 2030? I'll tell you what, it doesn't. The idea that emerges from this draft budget, at least from its philosophy of education, is nothing more than a neoliberal and antisocial dogma. Because you didn't realize that the only way to really put this country on a growth path that is really lasting is to put much more resources into education. In proportion to GDP, this amount of around 4 per cent is not enough. It would take a very brave, very decisive step to reach the level of 6 percent that you really could make a great difference and indeed a substantial shift would be observed. It should be understood that education is the main human capital system in Hungary! And if you're here to tell us how much investment has been made, which we can naturally support, and if you don't get your horse's foot out and one of your buddies doesn't do these school renovations, classroom renovations, swimming pool investments, and if these buildings don't get soaked on the second day after, let's say, the transfer, we say it's the right thing to do. However, attention should also be paid to the character that this draft budget forgets, which is the circle of educators. I want you to look at the draft budget for their personal benefits. A total of 1 percent more resources are foreseen next year, so we are talking about 150,000 teachers in the field of public education, with a total surplus of about HUF 5 billion and a 1 percent surplus in the area of personal benefits. 5 billion forints for 150,000 teachers, 50 billion forints for extra profit for the Ripper family. I think there's no way we could set up more striking, unfair proportions here. Indeed, it should be understood that the most important factor in production is human knowledge capable of producing high added value, and this will not go any further than to appreciate workers who are trying to transfer this knowledge to the future generation, which is indeed the gold cover of this country in the future generation. We don't have huge oil fields, diamond mines, and we could name these natural resources that we lack, but we would have well-educated heads of people who could make this national success. You have so many references to Klebelsberg's name, it is not by accident that you have named that institution support centre. What did Klebelsberg say? The new defense wallet, that's education. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, spoke about something else radically, and a very different concept emerged from what he represented, and what a few decades ago after the Trianon disaster, let us say, Klebelsberg implemented here in Hungary, and indeed set the small truncated country, mutilated, maimed and condemned to death, on a growth path that, I believe, set an eternal example of current education management and education policy in Hungary. On June 6, when Minister of State Rétvári at a project closing event at the Fejér County Vila said that it was worth investing in education, I was very happy about it, and I drank his stupid words, and I thought that there would indeed be a marked change that would move this area forward. I should have also thought that he had taken the words of László Révész, who actually took control of the complex basic program of pedagogy renewal, who explained that the education would be successful if the best students got in there, they would make the teachers who could give it to them, but they should be valued financially and morally. I thought the Secretary of State had read, say, the report of the National Faculty of Pedagogism, and realized that there were problems when forty out of a hundred graduates begin this beautiful career, and then one third of these 40 are struck by lightning speed, because the circumstances are such because they are not financially and morally appreciated. Then I should have thought, say, the Secretary of State dusted off János Ember's work in 1886 and took it off the shelf. János Ember wrote an illustrious book entitled The Financial Status of the Hungarian Folk Teacher, in which he lamented on long and long pages that a starting elementary school teacher in the village was only three times the salary of an agricultural worker, and this multiplying pension was only six times higher. Let's see how we stand in this situation. Take, let's say, the FEOR 9331 grade, the pig feeder or the herb collector, so it's a simple farm worker like this: thanks to the increase in the minimum wage, they bring home about 100,000 forints a month for this job. But a beginner teacher, a teacher, brings home three times that, so the net is 300,000 forints? Or are you going to take home the 600,000 forints on your way to retirement? Obviously not. It is typical of beginners, especially their guardians, that they work for hunger wages, and the salary they receive, let's say, in a place where there is a housing crisis like Budapest, and the rent prices have gone far away, is not enough for anything. So, we should have thought that you would look at this work, and on this point you promise us on the budget here, then Secretary of State Rétvári, such an improvement. Or he was reading a little István Polónyi who writes that there are low-paid, under-motivated, low-presidious teachers on the field, so that it is not really possible to achieve a great result. Or you have heard the McKinsey report, which, although it was already 2007, has laid down such basic truths that the key factor in education is the educator, and if this educator is not appreciated, there is no meaningful progress here. Although Secretary of State Bódis said that there would be a development and a paradigm shift if it were not for those who consider it primarily a source of income. Oh, my God. I don't think he thought that sentence through before he said it. So, does anyone really think that someone is going to be a teacher in Hungary today because there's such a terrific opportunity to earn money on this field? It's very, very far from the truth. The union, the Teachers' Union, did not start running a so-called wage pressure gauge by accident, which shows how many forints, unlike propaganda, have been pulled out of the teachers' pockets here for years. This may be 50,000 forints per month for a beginner educator, but for several decades for a qualified educator on the field, it can reach 100,000 forints, as the projection fund has been fixed to a minimum wage of 101 500 forints in 2014, and they have not been willing to increase it since then. Indeed, it would be necessary to increase the amount of the minimum wage at all times in order to appreciate this career, the teaching and teaching career, and indeed to attract the best to the career where these people deal with the light of our eyes, our children. Then we could think of it when the Secretary of State announced this, who is unfortunately not here, that he had read from William Petty, who had already discussed human capital in 1676, and that he had thought of the theories of human capital which became a scientific paradigm through Schultz, but that nothing of this had come true, because we have to turn back again to the cold numbers, which show that the government does not appreciate this area and does not feel that there are very, very serious problems here. And the pension bomb that is ticking here during the Hungarian education business will explode, a lot of teachers will retire, and there will simply be no replacements there, because these young people will not choose the teaching career under such conditions. [[11.10]] We should have also thought that the statement of the MTA General Assembly last May was related to you, Mr State Secretary. The MTA said that budget resources in the field of public education are insufficient and not adequate for social expectations. This way, however, there will be no quality education if we stay on this path. Although education can be called effective, and this may hit many people's ears, efficiency does not mean clear effectiveness. Education efficiency indexes show that we are the fourth, or have been, according to the latest surveys among OECD countries, so the teachers that can be brought out of this framework will do everything they can to raise treasures for this country from our children, from the hopes of the future, from here too, from the ranks of the Jobbik faction. So nothing will change, fellow Members, that Hungarian education does not ensure vital mobility for these children; nothing will change that the family background index will determine the tens and hundreds of thousands of young people's lives in Hungary. To do so, we should recognise the need to pay more attention to this area, to accept the amendments which I myself and the other members of the Jobbik Group have attached to this budget proposal, which should at least be read. Turns out they didn't read it last year, and the draft for the renovation of the cocoa-brios statue in Pajkaszeg also ran into the Budget Committee. Since then, perhaps they have now changed this position, and my fellow Member Peter James's proposal to establish the statue of Orbán was rejected by László Kövér. I ask you, fellow Members, to pay attention to and support all our other amendments, so that there will be something from this country. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-21-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I respectfully welcome our MEP Zoltán Balczó, our old vice-president, whose speech is now coming. The time frame is seven minutes.
u2019-06-21-41	Mr President, thank you for the floor and for the friendly, kind words of introduction. Dear Parliament, When negotiating the budget, the relation of the Hungarian budget to EU funds, its use, is always an important aspect. In this regard, I would say that there is an ongoing debate in Parliament, because there have been several separate political debates on this issue, which I have been able to participate in. This includes statistical data, percentage of resource use, speed of drawdowns, contribution to GDP. They're not irrelevant. However, the most important aspect of Jobbik's assessment of these resources is the social utilisation, above all: to what extent quality jobs are created, how incomes are growing, i.e. how we stand in terms of living standards. Well, Eurostat last reported data in 2018. As regards the most important parameter for living standards, real consumption per capita, Hungary reaches 62 percent of the EU average, which means that only Bulgaria is behind us in terms of living standards. What is the reason for this? Jobbik believes that it is economic policy in Orbán, because this economic policy seeks to serve large companies, above all international firms, with cheap labour. Let me quote a statement, not the first time in this debate, because it was an emblematic statement. At the head of a Hungarian delegation in Saudi Arabia, Viktor Orbán said: "Come and invest in Hungary, because the labour force in Hungary is surprisingly cheap in terms of the skills of the Hungarian workforce, and the labour code is very flexible. This code has become even more flexible not by itself, according to the government's intention - that, in order to serve these large companies, it has introduced this rule of overwork for 400 hours. The Secretary of State did not reply to what he said in the debate in 2017; in his speech at the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Prime Minister stated that the period of economic growth could be based on the cheap Hungarian labour force in Hungary has ended in Hungary, and that as a positive factor it is capable of bringing foreign capital into the country. Well, I have to correct what you said, that we are not talking about cheap Hungarian labour, but we are talking about Hungarian labour because there is a population change going on, and we know well what the government has done to help these big companies with cheap Ukrainian labour. They didn't come here on their own, you can read about the hundreds of millions spent by the government on recruitment, and now we're talking about hiring without a job permit in certain areas. And if they asked what the solution would have been, it wouldn't have been in a year. For decades, but under your governance, what should have been done was systematically, constantly strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises that are capable of developing, creating greater added value and thus paying higher wages. If I have returned to the previous debates, let me quote John Lazarus, who once said that what we receive is not a gift, we get it because it is due to us. Well, I'd have to say he would, but there's no question we're getting it. Many countries in the European Parliament are whipped for corruption, but only Hungary is the most corrupt country in Europe. We, too, often experience in local cases, during a campaign, what irritates the population, but there in Brussels they are familiar with the big cases, such as Elios, in which the Prime Minister has a family involvement. And how cynical the solution was: they said there was nothing wrong, because we take this project out of the projects to be submitted, we replace it with something else, the 100 percent use remains. The answer is in English: we know that this cannot be accepted, but pay the Hungarian taxpayers. And they say, yes, we're being attacked because of corruption, he's in another country, because we're up against the Soros plan. Some quotes from other countries. Bulgaria: the Minister of Agriculture resigned on suspicion of misuse of EU funds; the country joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Czech Republic: support has been withdrawn from the companies of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Agriculture; the country has joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Romania: the leader of the largest party of government has been sentenced to three years in prison and is currently being prosecuted for embezzlement of EU funds. The Romanian government tried to move the Attorney General, and he tried to stop it. In Hungary, the Attorney General does not have to be afraid that the government wants to move him. The EU can now withdraw support or part of it from those who do not meet the basic conditions, operate poorly tendering agencies, prosecutors and investigators do not act thoroughly in EU money fraud cases, guarantee the independence of courts, prevent fraud or punish corruption in the suspicious spending of EU funds, and do not cooperate with OLAF or EU prosecutors. To make it clear that Jobbik's goal is not and I did not represent in the European Parliament the withdrawal of subsidies from this country, because we believe that an entire country cannot be punished for the crimes of a government. But I must state that Jobbik's goal is to fight at all levels to force the government, force Viktor Orbán to meet these obviously essential conditions. [[11.20]] We are not doing this and we are fighting for it because a opposition party has to go against the government, but because it is in the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-21-42	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches, but before I give the floor for the next round, I would like to say that there are a lot of other speakers. Please monitor your time frame on the monitor and keep an eye on each other so that everyone who has applied can speak. Tamás Csányi applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-06-21-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, The reason I raised my speech briefly, for two minutes, is because I would like to reveal myself as a teacher of 20 years as a teacher in the field of educators. We can't really identify with government voices and the proportions and percentages of the pink fog, I've already mentioned that, and we don't share their hurrah-optimism. What we see is that your budget deliberately allows strategic sectors to be left to the thirtieth of the dogs, or at least to the level of vegetation. In my previous comment, I have already mentioned the employees of law enforcement agencies, and we have already remembered the unsatisfactoryness of the wage increase; we can see 3 percent in the budget. Compared to this, my colleague Balázs Ander said that 1 percent of those who ignore teachers in a face-to-face way are now under-conceived. I think that they need to change this very urgently in order to make these very important sectors, which are essential for everyone, attractive; police, education, which must be discussed here. Let me remind you of Sándor Bodó's statement by the Secretary of State of Finance in January, where he spoke about a 13 percent wage increase in the sector. What I would ask with respect is where this is going to appear in the budget. Believe me, educators work a lot, make a lot of sacrifices, do a lot of work for you with the children you put first in government propaganda, spend a lot of time with them. The future is in their hands. Please pay them properly. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-21-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr László Tasó. Here you go.
u2019-06-21-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say briefly that I have been in the settlements of the 3rd constituency of Hajdú-Bihar County in the last few weeks and we have talked about the budget. Let me say that I am pleased to say that you understand what you are saying, what the budget says to Hungary. People living in the settlement, the inhabitants of rural Hungary, understand what budget designers want by extending the family protection programme, what they want by spending more resources on security and protection. They also agree that, in addition to the family protection plan, the economic protection programme is a huge opportunity for our competitiveness to continue to grow. It is also certain that, despite the fact that there are critical words from the opposition's benches, it is important to have 4 percent economic growth, 2.8 percent inflation, 1 percent general government deficit and that the investment rate is above 25 percent. These are meaningful and quite important data, and this must be taken into account. After all, I would respond to the statements of the speakers before me by saying that they were talking about the problems in the field of education and that there is only a shortage of teachers in the countryside. So, my fellow Member Ander, I have not heard in Budapest that there is a shortage of teachers, but there is indeed a shortage in the countryside, indeed, and there will indeed be more to be spent on this area. However, regardless of the lower share of resources spent on education in terms of GDP, there may still be more and more in nominal terms. As the economy is growing, the nominal value of the aid is higher. That should also be taken into account. The other is that since 1998, Fidesz and his allies have always said the same thing about every important area. We also have a constant opinion on family protection plans and politics, social policy, social policy and defence policy. On the other hand, this always changes in the opposition's benches. We are the only ones who are always saying the same thing, saying the same thing, and I hope that you will take over. In the end, we're one blood after all. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-21-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, from the Fidesz Group, will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go.
u2019-06-21-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Every year, the budget debate gives us the opportunity to exchange views on the government's goals and resources for the following year. I would like to do so in the next few minutes with regard to the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. This is a grateful task, since the SME budget is growing dynamically, just like any chapter in the budget. This will be no different next year, as instead of 287 billion this year, the wallet will be available for 309 billion next year. The Ministry's central organisation can be run by nearly a third of this year, with HUF 3.9 billion more resources, most of which goes to personal benefits. Every year, it is a pleasure to report on developments in the network of foreign representations. In this year's 2019 budget, there was a considerable amount of resources available for this purpose, but next year there will be no reason to be ashamed, the two most important items are the renovation of the buildings of the Hungarian embassy in Tehran and Dublin, on which we plan to spend HUF 1.6 billion. Although the budgetary implications are more modest, I would also like to mention the opening of Hungary's foreign economic office in Jerusalem. This office was jointly opened by Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanjahu in March this year. Of course, it is also important for political relations between the two countries, since an opening in Jerusalem is symbolic, but economic aspects are not negligible. Israel is today one of the countries that are the centres and drivers of global innovation. Its companies develop and use state-of-the-art technologies, and for Hungarian businesses this foreign economic office offers a good opportunity to participate in these processes. Ladies and gentlemen, As far as the economic development and external economic objectives of the JRC are concerned, they have been on the same footing for years. One is investment, the other is export promotion. The majority of the budget growth of the portfolio is also the investment promotion target, which is increasing from HUF 50 to HUF 80 billion. The aim of this support is, above all, to facilitate the implementation in Hungary of large-scale investments that are of major importance in terms of capital inflows and, through this, to stimulate job creation. This is a uniquely successful instrument of the government's strategic investment policy. In each of the last five years, he broke the record of the previous year, and in 2018 98 large investments had already arrived in the country, with a total value of no less than HUF 138 billion. Moreover, these investments now bring with them very serious wages. While the average salary for large investments to Hungary in 2017 was HUF 300 thousand, a year later, in 2018, HUF 420 thousand, this represents a 40 percent increase. This is clearly due to the fact that most of us are now talking about high value-added investments with a high rate of R &amp; D. The Hungarian economic environment is particularly competitive and the investment environment is particularly attractive. The 9% single-key corporate tax allows businesses to spend more on wages, so they can also pay higher skills and higher added value workers. [[11.30]] It also appears in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade that Eximbank will provide an interest rate subsidy of HUF 12.2 billion next year, and a capital increase of HUF 7.3 billion will also take place. The KKM's export development activity is successful, as in the case of investment promotion. In the last two years, the value of Hungarian exports has exceeded EUR 100 billion, or EUR 10 thousand per person. The increase in tied aid loans is also significant, and next year HUF 17.9 billion will be available for this purpose. The subsidised countries can purchase Hungarian products and services from this preferential loan. In 2020, seven countries are expected to be beneficiaries: Vietnam, Mongolia, Kosovo, Sri Lanka, Ukraine, Cape Verde and Kenya. I note that the main engine of the African region's most dynamic growth and drastic population explosion on the black continent, Nigeria, is not in this circle at the moment, and I would suggest to the government that this position should also be examined and reviewed. These tied aid loan schemes contribute to improving Hungary's visibility, visibility and popularity, which in the long term contributes not only to the development of bilateral relations and to the enhancement of the interests of our country, but also to the expansion of Hungarian businesses in these markets. Ladies and gentlemen, Immigration in Europe will remain the most important foreign policy issue in 2020. In migration, we see not an opportunity, but a cultural, economic and public security risk, and therefore programmes that contribute to addressing the root causes of migration on the ground are important. This includes support of HUF 1.3 billion to Uganda in the framework of international development cooperation. And here I would like to refer again to Nigeria's question. Finally, the Ministry's budget includes small but important items such as the restoration of the damage caused by the Mexican earthquake or the support of the Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme. In the first framework, Hungary, together with the Mexican partner, evaluates and participates in the restoration of the damage caused by the earthquake in certain historical buildings. The two buildings covered by the cooperation are the Heart of Jesus church and the monastery church in Juarez, Mexico City. Next year, the government will spend 1.1 billion. In recent years, we have become accustomed to the emergence of a number of national policy goals in the chapter of the KKM, and it is enough to think only about economic development programmes in areas inhabited by Hungarians across borders. These are now added to the Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme. The aim of the programme is to give greater attention to the most difficult national part, Csángóföld; it includes economic development and education programs and real estate development, which is coordinated by Prime Minister Zsigmond Járai. To sum up, fellow Members, the unbroken development path on which the country has been progressing for a decade is also quantified in the budget chapter of the JRC. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-21-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-pretty speeches if someone applies. [[For signal:]] Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-21-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Kósa has left... [[On the mark of Lajos Kósa:]] Congressman's here! Excellent timing. I have very little time, so I'll just react briefly. With regard to the use of nuclear energy, the LMP always says that the use of nuclear energy needs to be phased out and that the share of renewables needs to be gradually increased. At the same time, it is also necessary to ensure and increase energy efficiency. Of course, this would require a fundamental economic policy turnaround, but the problem is that your Paks II project, which has already failed, will make this change of attitude impossible by thousands of billion forints, so it will not give you a chance in the next period. In addition, unfortunately, it must also be said that it is not true that the use of nuclear energy is safe, and we know that it carries serious risks. And unfortunately, the Paks plant provides an example of this, four days ago the last failure. Therefore, we say that whoever represents the interests of the nation demands the immediate termination of the Paks II Treaty. Thank you.
u2019-06-21-50	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kósa would also like to speak for two minutes. Here you go.
u2019-06-21-51	Thank you very much. I don't want to abuse the patience of this House. I just want to say that Paks II. Its construction is necessary, among other things, because the Paks power plant, which today reliably accounts for 40 percent of Hungarian energy production, has long been operating above its originally planned age. Obviously, this can't be pushed any longer. So it's not that we're building two power plants, it's that we want to replace Paks I with Paks II. Obviously, my group leader also knows that Hungary needs a high-capacity, permanent power plant in the energy supply system, and in addition, power plants that otherwise serve the immediate needs can be designed. In addition, even though we are talking about what would be the desired energy consumption order or structure, it is not possible to notice that today is no longer the most traditional 23rd December in Hungary, because everyone is at home and we are heating, but unfortunately with the generalization and spread of air conditioning on hot summer days, energy consumption is at least as much as on winter days. The fact is that we should not only deal with the optimal product on the production side, we should deal with it and we also deal with the use side, because the energy efficiency of Hungarian households and Hungarian industry has improved very much, and we are very well on track that if we go through this process, we will also be effective in consumption. That's why we need Paks II. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-21-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a proper speech from the Fidesz Group, MEP Zsolt V. Németh applied. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget is always an impression of a government's social policy, a value choice, a vision of what country we want to live in. So in the coming year, we spend spectacularly more on our security, on families, on strengthening the economy. Together, all of this aims to ensure that Hungary remains a Hungarian country. We must continue to spend more on not becoming an immigrant country to stop population loss, to strengthen our economic sovereignty. These steps are necessary, but, of course, insufficient conditions for maintaining our national values, since global multicultural pressure must also be resisted. We have often said that this is a product of some kind of dating spirit, but we do not believe in ghosts, it is important to identify our national characters and values, with which we have enriched Europe, the world, all our values that are attached to our culture of production, creative activity, tradition, our natural and built heritage. Our national peculiarities, if you will, are our national codes, with which we can decipher and identify our nation, the Hungarian soul. The performance of Hungarian landscape, indigenous animals, plants, architecture, music, dance, crafts, wearing culture, gastronomy, scientists and athletes is a reason for pride. [[11.40]] The attention and resources allocated to these areas will also be welcome in the budget next year. Without the need for completeness: for example, half a billion can be spent on folk architecture, another 3 billion can be spent on the Zsoóri programme, with which folk music bands and folk dance groups can expand their inventory, performing clothes, instruments and tools. 500 million are available for the identification and exploration of Hungaricums, more than a thousand municipal depositories can apply for this source. We spend 1.7 billion on the farm programme, more than in recent years, as the farm itself is not just a farming heritage, not only a monument to the settlement structure, but also a value for a particular culture that we want to preserve. Or another 1 billion can improve the state of closed gardens with the amount allocated to the closed garden programme, which is also a gene conservation, landscape maintenance, rural development and community building programme. In particular, I highlight the amounts spent on protecting our genetic resources, as we often talk about the contraction of the biological diversity of wild plants and animals, but this process is just as visible for our crops and animals, as in the last hundred years we have lost about three quarters of our food crops, and 75 percent of our food comes from just four plants, rice, wheat, corn and sunflowers. Hungary is among the first in the world to recognise the importance of genetic conservation, thus preserving genetic resources in the government programme. In order to achieve the government's intention to increase state involvement in genetic conservation, in 2017 the agricultural portfolio prepared a genetic conservation strategy, with more than 12 billion funds in the coming years. This year, for example, 705 million HUF is available for the continuation of the priority sample programmes, such as the Hungarian cold-blooded Mura Interracial Horse modeling program or for example the Carpathian Badger program. The National Biodiversity and Gene Conservation Centre has been established, where HUF 180 million serves the development in the coming year, and in 2020 the nine breed breeding organizations of Hungarian dogs can continue to support their breeding tasks. Finally, let me point out that the development of European Union programmes, KEOP and VEKOP, with Hungarian co-financing, of course, serves the genetic conservation goals. For example, in Tarnaszentmiklós, the new farming centre for the holding of Hungarian grey cattle is established, in Letanya, the Hungarian grey cattle is also built for the herd of Racka sheep in Nagybajom, the Danube-Drava National Park, or in the National Park of Őrség, an investment is being made for the placement of the inter-mural herd of horses. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us conclude that, in addition to achieving professional goals, these investments contribute to preserving our national values and strengthening our national identity, so this budget, if you will, will not only contribute to our well-being but also to our well-being. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-21-54	Congressman, there is now an opportunity, because now the circles are so short, for a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Vice-President István Jakab from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2019-06-21-55	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Due to the limited time frame, it was only two minutes. I would like to highlight three things. Firstly, this budget is a budget based on credible data and results that will underpin the future. Secondly, climate protection has been mentioned on several occasions, and on several occasions it has been mentioned that there are serious problems, even linked to migration. I would like to point out that there is no coincidence in the budget of HUF 17 billion per year in connection with water management and the protection of prices and inland water, so that water governance can be implemented. This is the basis for achieving a protein programme, which is the basis for achieving GMO-free status in animal husbandry in the same way, so this is a decisive development for the future. Obviously, in the next period, a market position in livestock production will still be possible through the protein programme, which will have a positive impact, since in the future the market for GMO-free animal products in the Member States of the European Union and in international markets is boundless and market protection. The following is what I would like to say and respond to the fact that it has been mentioned on several occasions, and we have addressed it, and we have launched a petition to ensure that EU funds are not reduced. This principle has been applied in the decisive Member States of the European Union. We stood up for him, not by accident. I would not point to the Jobbik faction, not to reduce national subsidies, but to preserve our positions, to which we will have the opportunity to make national funds, because this will be the basis of the programme for the coming period. I think, fellow Members, that we need national cooperation in this area, however, I believe that you will eventually see it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-21-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. No two-minute speeches have been made, and we can go back to normal speaking circles. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Tamás Herczeg is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-57	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fundamental Law of Hungary sets the freedom of association as an inalienable right of man. Among the freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, the right of association and the right of assembly among the classic civil liberties, I would like to talk about the budgetary possibilities to assist and support the right of association. Before that, I would like to mention the obligation to protect public institutions that this obligation on the part of the State is a fundamental human right, i.e. in the case of the right of association, that it is the duty of the State to protect that right and to facilitate its undisturbed exercise. To a large extent, the State's provision of adequate resources to organisations active at national, regional, county or local level in the interest of society and its macro- or field level is also an incentive to exercise this right. The government treats these organisations as partners, because achieving common goals is a fundamental interest for all of us, so every year, the central budget also includes items that provide financial benefits to these organisations. I am saying that the central budget, because of course there are other funding legs for civil society organisations. For example, in Békéscsaba, three municipal committees, social and health committees, education, public education, youth and sport, as well as the committee for reconciliation and external relations of ethnic interests, support civil society communities with the proposals set up in the municipal budget, which are regularly issued each year. It enters into a public culture agreement with cultural actors, concludes a cooperation agreement with non-state service providers, specifically associations that provide a basic social service or provide space and space for the operation of civil society organisations. I would like to add before presenting the figures concerning the 2019 budget: slightly inaccurate, but in practice, in reality, there are many who also call informal groups of civil society organisations, which, while not having legal personality, function as a community, and in some areas carry out useful activities for the small community or the settlement. At my former workplace, the Csabagyöngye Cultural Center, for example, there are over a hundred such groups. [[11.50]] It is not only an institution that helps communities self-help, leisure, charity or other activities, but also parachutes, for example. Békéscsaba is an association of civil society organisations, which currently provides services to nearly 100 organisations. So much for the characteristics of Csaba, that only 87 applications were received this year by the committee of national interest and external relations, the municipality provides tens of millions of funds to the groups. During the implementation of our CLLD competition, dozens of organizations cooperate, so they do colorful, diverse and effective work in the peaceful county seat of civil society organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, Looking at the figures in the national budgets after 2010, we can see that the government is really paying special attention to the work of social organisations. According to the 2017 data of KSH in Hungary, the number of non-profit organisations is 61 151, of which the number of classic civil society organisations, i.e. foundations and associations is 53 613. The activities of a large part of the foundations are linked to education, social care and culture. In order, 34, 16 and 15 percent of the foundations do this type of work. Social non-profit organisations have the highest rates of leisure, sports and cultural organisations. They are 22 percent, 20 percent and 15 percent respectively among all social non-profit organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to continue my speech by presenting public support for the civilian sector. Between 2010 and 17, the rate of public support to the classic civil sector increased from HUF 144 billion a year to HUF 284 billion a year, i.e. almost twice as much. This is also a KSH data that shows that the government is giving greater support to the civilian sphere than ever before. There are organisations that do not want to comply with the rules of transparency, but this is a dwarf minority, and the numbers do not lie, and it is clear from this that the government recognises and treats social organisations as partners. Two specific forms of public support for classic civil society organisations are the National Cooperation Fund, the NEA and the possibility of providing 1 percent of personal income tax. NEA is a form of funding to support the operation and professional activities of civil society organisations, where civil society organisations can apply not only for the support of their operating costs and professional programmes, but also for the use of state aid for the donations they collect. The NEA budget increased by 75.4 percent between 2012 and 2019, i.e. from HUF 3 billion to HUF 380 million to HUF 5 billion to HUF 928 million. In 2020, the total amount of NEA will continue to increase to HUF 7 billion to HUF 723 million. In 2019, 10 917 support requests were submitted by CSOs and 4509 grants were received. 43.5 percent of valid applications were successful. From 2019, with the introduction of the combined support, the government has created the possibility that applications from the National Cooperation Fund will not be submitted for a separate technical and operational tender, but will be open to all civil society organisations to apply for programmes, events and operational purposes in a full procedure. [[The president's ringing the bell to indicate the end of the time.]] This will significantly reduce the time spent on administration for organisations and, in many cases, this is a bottlenecks for civil society organisations. There's so much I'd like to tell you quickly, I can see that...
u2019-06-21-58	Don't tell me anything more, Congressman, because their time frame has already expired...
u2019-06-21-59	... grants may be submitted from 2019 to 10 per cent. In view of all this, I call for support from the 2020 budget. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-21-60	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] It would be useful, but in the absence of a time frame, it is not possible to do so. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go. Péter Benő Banai has the floor.
u2019-06-21-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the end of the three-day debate, allow me first to thank everyone who has contributed to the debate on the draft budget law 2020. I believe that these comments have helped to interpret the economic policy that the government has been following since 2010 and which also sets out the 2020 budget, the results it has achieved. I think it has been clarified that we have not only managed to bring the lack of public finances below the Maastricht level and put the public debt on a substantial downward path, but also that the country has achieved this by increasing the number of jobs and actions significantly. It is recalled that the number of people employed has increased by more than 800,000 and that real income has increased to an outstanding extent in recent years. In this regard, allow me to respond to Mr Balczó's comment that only Bulgaria is worse with regard to consumption data. It must be factually stated that the income of the population [[Some of the congressmen are talking between the lines. The president's ringing the bell.]] On the one hand, the significantly increasing income of the population generates additional consumption, but on the other hand, the increase in savings, see the success of the new public sovereign debt and, on the third, it creates additional investment, see also the build-up of housing thanks to the family home creation discount. It is therefore appropriate and I thank you for your comments on the real wage growth that has been achieved and how this can be carried forward in 2020. As a result of this economic policy, I believe that not only public finance indicators have evolved well, employment indicators have evolved well, but that, as a matter of course, we have achieved substantial economic growth in this context, and I hope that in recent days we have also clarified that this substantial economic growth has also been significant in comparison with competitors, the countries of the region, and that it has led to a catch-up with the European Union's central countries. This is the economic policy, which therefore defines the 2020 budget, this is the economic policy, which shows, on the basis of the facts and not on the basis of different communication slogans, that our efforts so far have been successful. What is in the focus of this economic policy, which can therefore also be seen in the 2020 budget? Three words to describe economic policy in terms of values: work, family, security. Work. I mentioned what additional employment or earnings data we could see. The 2020 budget expects that net average earnings at national level could increase above 8 per cent. This increase in earnings can affect a wide range of the population and families. I must clearly reject the fact that social fragmentation in the past and in the 2020 budget would be an act. It should be recalled that from 2020 the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage will increase by 8 percent. However inflation has turned out, there have been opinions that inflation could be higher than 3 percent, so no matter how inflation develops, we can expect substantial real growth in the lowest categories of earnings in 2020, as in previous years. One of the sources of this wage increase could be the reduction of the rate of social contribution tax, which is also part of the economic protection action plan, and as a result, in 2020 if the Honourable Parliament accepts the Government's proposal, there will be some HUF 310 billion of resources left for employers, which may partly cover wage increases. Not only in the competition sector, but also in the public sector. According to the proposal for a budget law, the salaries of public finance workers can be increased by HUF 238 billion. I would mention, among these surpluses, the increase in the wages of nurses, where there is already a concrete decision: from January 2020, the pay of nurses will increase by 14 percent, and in November, a further increase of 20 percent will occur. [[12.00]] In addition, wage increases can be made in a number of areas. Within all HUF 238 billion wage increases, there is a HUF 152 billion item that can cover wage increases to be decided later. If I have to highlight the second baseline in the direction of economic policy, it must be the family. It is no coincidence that next year's budget bill will be characterised by increasing support for families on most occasions. The total amount of HUF 2228 billion proposed by the government to support families in 2020 is close to HUF 2228 billion. Compared to 2019, the increase is HUF 224 billion. We are talking about sums, lots that are almost difficult to interpret. Allow me to highlight three items out of this large number. First of all, the amount of family benefits, which can be achieved for families raising children as a result of changes in the rules after 2011, could already amount to HUF 360 billion in 2020. The second item, which is a new element in the current budget line, is the four-year-old mother's absence, as as part of the family protection action plan, as from January 1, 2020 mothers with four children do not have to pay personal income tax, leaving more than HUF 20 billion to mothers with four children. Thirdly, I would like to mention the amount of housing subsidies from the HUF 2228 billion family support. Here, too, we can expect a significant increase, with nearly HUF 300 billion in housing subsidies, including a new element that will have the impact of the village CSOK as a whole since July 2019. As a third element, I referred to security as one of the values of economic policy. I think that there is no need to emphasise the importance of security, not only from the point of view of individuals, not only of families, but also of economies, because when making an investment decision, businesses also consider which countries, which regions are considered safe, and which areas should indeed be calculated with major security risks. In this respect, too, the proposed budget law for 2020 guarantees progress and security, as it increases the amount of security-related expenditure by HUF 174 billion compared to 2019. In addition to the three priority areas, there are still a number of important areas to be expected next year. Thus, if the Parliament accepts the government's proposal, for health purposes HUF 184 billion, for educational purposes HUF 48 billion, for cultural purposes HUF 42 billion, for research and development purposes HUF 32 billion more may be available in 2020 than in 2019. Of course, we still have tasks in these areas. In this sense, I can interpret the part of opposition contributions which concern the fact that, in order to increase competitiveness, we have a role to play in improving the proportion of healthy people, whether in the field of health or education, but I must clearly reject the claims that the stability of public finances or the increase in support of families would have been achieved by the government at the expense of financing certain areas. The increases I have mentioned in these areas show not only nominal expenditure, but also real expenditure compared to 2010, whether we are looking at the numbers of education, health, culture or other areas. In terms of increases, allow me to respond to pensions, as many people in the debate said that pensioners could be as losers of next year's budget proposal. One of these arguments was linked to the fact that inflation could be higher than the rate calculated by the government. First of all, let me record that, on the basis of the figures, the real value of pensions after 2010 increased by more than 10 percent, as there were years when the planned inflation and the actual pension increase were understated. This has therefore led to an increase in the real value of pensions, with a focus on preserving this real value in the next year's draft budget law, and in addition to preserving the real value, it is possible to pay a pension premium thanks to economic growth of more than 3.5 percent. In total, the budget bill will therefore allocate more than HUF 136 billion for pensions in 2020 than in 2019. These surpluses and these tax reductions will be achieved if our economic growth remains above the EU average in 2020. The bill submitted calculates an economic growth rate of 4%. Of course, we can see the dangers that can reach Hungary from the world economy, of course, as regards the open nature of the Hungarian economy, we know that economic processes in the global economy and in the European Union have a legal impact on the Hungarian economy, and that is why next year's surpluses, in order to ensure next year's tax reductions, have adopted an economic protection action plan, the numbers of which have been incorporated into the draft budget law next year. This is therefore one of the important elements in order to ensure that these additional expenditures and additional tax reductions can be implemented. This economic protection action plan has an effect of HUF 500 billion that the growth of the economy exceeds the EU average by around 2 percentage points. The second important security element for achieving the planned surpluses and tax incentives is that next year's draft budget law will be based on a 1 percent deficit and reserves of 1 percent of GDP. In other words, even if there were a negative scenario, these global economic risks would result in lower growth, such as a trade war, brexit and other processes, there is still a reserve that can compensate for possible revenue reductions. I think that this is also an important advantage of the draft budget law next year. The increased amount of reserves in 2020 compared to the 2019 and previous figures, as I mentioned, is significant. At the same time, the increased level of reserves, the system of maintenance in 2020, is the same as the practice whereby budget security and budgetary stability are ensured not only by the reserves but also by the early adoption of the budget. For this reason, for the fifth time, the government has presented the next year's draft budget law to the Honourable Parliament. In the debate, it was a criticism that the Honourable Parliament did not know the facts of 2018. Once again, I have to say that public finances and real economic data for 2018 are publicly available either on the website of government bodies, either the HCSO or the official bodies of the European Union. Based on these facts in 2018, and based on the data known so far, the government submitted the draft budget law to Parliament. I must say, in fact, disproved from what was said in the debate, that this early adoption of the budget did not subsequently result in budget instability. For example, the 2018 Budget Act was not amended on any occasion by the Parliament, but we can see from the already known figures that the macroeconomic path that the government used to calculate was achieved, and even our growth exceeded the previously calculated value, and we were able to maintain the balance of public finances by ensuring that the additional expenditure guaranteed in 2018 was met and that tax reductions could also be realised. [[12.10]] In this respect, therefore, I think that the proposal for a fiscal law to be adopted by Parliament, the proposal for a tax law, does not result in these laws being unstable, since the risks that may arise can be totally offset by the reserves already mentioned. At the same time, the earlier adoption of these legislative proposals before 2010 or compared to the beginning of the 2010s results in all stakeholders, all businesses, families and families concerned being able to prepare for the planned tax changes, the planned fiscal policy changes, in due time, about six months before the entry into force of the laws. The stability of budget figures, the availability of additional government expenditures, tax reductions were also verified by two government-related organisations, the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council, and government calculations were found to be credible. Allow me to thank President Árpád Kovács and President Domokos, and the bodies they lead, for carrying out this investigation and confirming the validity of government calculations. With all this in mind, I would be pleased to recommend to the Honourable Parliament that, together with any amendments, the bill should be discussed in the committees and then adopted. I am convinced that the economic policy that has been successful so far and which has made progress for Hungarian families can continue in 2020 if this bill is adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-21-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As was well-known, the amendment proposals were submitted by 16:00 yesterday, and the amendments submitted will be discussed next week. Allow me to thank Mr Péter Benő Banai specifically for his presence and active participation in the three-day debate. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2013 CCXXXII on the amendment of certain public education laws and the provision of national public education textbooks. General debate on the draft law repealing law until closure. The government referral is T/6457. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear House, First, I give the floor to Professor József Bódis, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Dear Secretary of State, It's got a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-63	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'll start by saying that the amendment of the Public Education Act and other related laws doesn't make any significant changes in the regulation of the public education system. The government remains committed to creating quality education. The amendments aim to make public education more able to fulfil its purpose, to train young people with general education and competitive knowledge. Institutional leaders are key players in creating quality education. Their motivation largely determines the quality and effectiveness of the educational work in the educational institutions. For all this reason, the government wants to pay more attention to the career as head of the institution, to make it more attractive, and to even acknowledge financially the work that they are doing. The bill therefore provides for the establishment of a supplement depending on the number of institutions, as well as the possibility of setting an incentive supplement. In the latter case, our aim is to allow the Director to receive further financial recognition on the basis of objective performance criteria to measure the effectiveness of education. To this end, the bill establishes a mandate for the creation of a government decree. With the mandate, details will be drawn up in a government decree. It should be pointed out that for teachers, it is also included in the bill to allow for an additional task. It is also in the interest of the government and the children and students concerned to have access to public education and to study on the same principles. The skills to be acquired in kindergarten education and the knowledge material in school education should be acquired when they are ready by maturity. This is particularly important in kindergarten, this institution prepares you for school, so it is of the utmost importance that only in the most justified cases you can be exempted from the obligation to go to kindergarten. This is one of the guarantees that children reach school maturity by the age of six. It should also be pointed out that the private learning relationship is replaced by the individual working order, and that this will be authorised by a single authority, which will ensure uniform application of the law. On the one hand, this is essentially a change of concept, which involves the promotion of the student's interests. Up to now, authorisation has been carried out at institutional level and there have been very different practices across the country by the various public education institutions. In some cases, private learning was not granted in justified cases, while the other extreme was when parents of difficult-to-treat children were asked by the head of the institution to apply for private learning status. In no way do we want to standardise this practice with the introduction of an individual working order, which makes the process more transparent and simpler. The aim is to fulfil the obligation to study in a way other than going to school, which, where appropriate, will continue to be possible, if it is indeed justified by the individual characteristics and the specific situation of the student, and is most beneficial for the development, effective continuation and completion of his studies. Students with special educational needs and integration, learning and behavioural difficulties can also be organised and their conditions can be ensured. In our view, it is in the social interest that children and pupils should receive education, education and their obligation to teach in an appropriate socialisation environment, in a regulated system of public education, provided that there is no objective obstacle to attending school. In our view, it is primarily in the student's interest to be educated, educated and guaranteed by public education rules and institutions. Dear Parliament, In 2017, we adopted an amendment to the law on children and students with integration, learning and behavioural difficulties. A group of opposition representatives turned to the Constitutional Court, asking for the abolition of the amendment of the law. However, the Constitutional Court has given us the truth and rejected the initiative, but it has indicated to the government that it is necessary to provide further legal guarantees in the case that we do so in this bill. We know, of course, that the development of the students concerned depends not only on legal requirements, which is why in recent years we have developed the range of educational training activities, as a result of which almost ten thousand people with medical education are working in Hungarian public education today, unlike 5700 people employed in 2010. [[12.20]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the framework of public textbook provision, we have provided textbooks free of charge from 1st to 9th grade, as well as in ethnic education, education and therapeutic education. From September 2020, this covers all public education, i.e. from 1st to 12th grade, including vocational training. This is also our goal to relieve the burden of families who have children. This relates to the fact that the rules of textbook provision are also laid down in the Public Education Act, the independent textbook law adopted in 2013 is no longer necessary, it has fulfilled its function, so we are repealing it. Dear fellow Members, Finally, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the most important issues mentioned above, the proposal contains a number of precise, practical and problem-solving rules. If you agree with our objectives, please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-21-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Pósán. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-65	Thank you, Mr. President. The legislation before us, as you said, will not, in essence, trigger much excitement, or at least, I think it will, in a number of places, clarify, or contain amendments which require either simplification of procedures or legislative changes or clarifications resulting from a judicial decision by the Constitutional Court. I think that the issue of going to kindergarten or school from the age of three or six years has, however, been considered in the light of the fact that the past period has sufficiently demonstrated that kindergarten is a very serious socialisation site and that children coming out of it are at a much lower risk of dropping out, the risk of leaving school than in children who do not. In this respect, however, it is not comforting to note that about 10 percent of three-year children do not start their kindergarten, and in this sense they will have to face significant disadvantages later on. From the point of view of school maturity, I also think it is right to consider the age of six as an important input period. Even more so, because in many high school schools the so-called language preparatory class is a common and widespread practice, so in this sense the four-class high schools are actually five-class high schools and, consequently, the actual acquisition of graduation is also being pushed out. If this is coupled with the shift in the time frame or time of school entry, then the possibility of actual high school graduations will extend significantly from an age point of view, and not to mention that there will be a pretty serious separation in terms of whether someone, let's say, is 14 or 12 years old, but they may also be in the same class. In many ways, especially with certain skills, this can cause a different attitude and relatively many conflicts. On the issue of private learning status, I think it is also necessary to clarify, because the single regulation that we want to achieve is precisely as the Secretary of State has said, because at present there is an incredibly wide range of decisions made by each institution. It's the schools themselves who decide right now who's allowed, who's not allowed. [[For the intervention of Gergely Arató:]] Obviously, Congressman Arato will be given the floor. In this respect, however, it is true that in many cases children do not receive it where it would be justified, and in other cases they will not receive it for any particular reason. It is good to note that at some point the possibility of private learning was originally designed for top athletes, children with talented artistic skills or permanently ill children. In addition, or rather rather, it is a matter of view, there has been a significant increase in the proportion of those who, either because of their stay abroad, are obviously well-respected, private learners for family reasons, or, in some cases, schools are trying to lead troubled children out of the system in this sense. So it has changed significantly compared to the original intention, and I think that it is worth applying something more uniform in this respect. Not to mention that it is also important for the socialization of children to be among their own age groups, to be raised there, to learn and learn many of the written and unwritten norms of living together. In this respect, private learning is difficult in many respects. It is not simply a matter of abolishing the status of private learner, it is simply a matter of allowing and assessing this in a different way than before, and the name of private learner status would be replaced by the individual working order. I think it is also a good endeavour that, in the event that information activities involving the violation of the basic law of pupils are carried out in school, and in this connection, the school leaders would not act or do not take the necessary measures, which are otherwise required by the legislation in force, there will be a possibility and opportunity in this respect, to clearly and clearly establish the responsibility of the head of the institution, and to take action in this respect. The Secretary of State spoke about the clarification the Constitutional Court has provided regarding the care of children with integration, learning and behavioural problems, and the additional guarantees that these are all now being included in the draft law. With regard to the appointment of head of the institution, I think it is particularly right to reduce the possibility of bureaucracy. 'Cause it's just that right now, right now... [[To interrupt Bence Tordai:]] I'll tell you right now, if Congressman's watching, he'll find out. At the moment, there is a requirement in school regulations that applications are given an opinion by the faculty and an opinion by the community of employees. The latter also includes the faculty, plus, of course, those school workers who are not in the teaching profession. So, essentially, for one institution, the procedure has to be conducted twice. What we do here is basically simply that the employment circle, which includes, once again, the faculty, is the opinion, and we do not need to repeat this procedure twice. It is right that other categories include the fact that the weekly hourly rate of the hour may be 14 hours instead of 10 hours. There are a number of subjects in schools that require this, so the presence of lecturers can guarantee a more stable and predictable functioning of schools and educational institutions. And, of course, we also note what has not yet been included in the legislation, but now, yes, this is an amendment to a certain wage guarantee law: in the event that there is a problem for employment in a private school, existential security is guaranteed by the state for teachers and workers there. Overall, I think that the law contains good steps, it sets out good directions. I will respectfully ask for the support of the congressmen and ladies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-21-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-21-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. Mr. President. Fellow Members! I'm a country high school teacher myself, father of three children. My boys are 4, 8 and 13. Biggest Botond is celebrating his birthday right now, so hey there, baby. [[Péter Ungár's intervention:]] Thank you very much. [[Fierceness and sporadic applause.]] So, if anyone's concerned with this question, then personally, I'm one of them. [[12.30]] How is the state of public education in Hungary? What course does the two-thirds of this House have here? My fellow Member has just said that he does not expect much emotion from this amendment. Well, you've been wrong, my fellow Member, you've certainly aroused these emotions, negative emotions. The most affected communities are unitedly rejecting this salad package, which they have put before us, and I would add: otherwise, they have not agreed with anyone in accordance with their good habits again, so it would be appropriate to explain why these professional and social discussions did not take place here. I believe that you have two thirds of them, and I believe that they can actually do anything, but that is not how Hungarian politics should work in 2019, in the middle of Europe. The question should be asked that these changes will help to improve the quality of education in Hungary, increase efficiency, increase efficiency and increase fairness, for which there are serious problems in Hungary. I wouldn't bring success here right now, which, let's say, the PISA polls are a pretty plastic witness. In terms of efficiency, I have just said during the budgetary debate that the Hungarian pedagogical society is not so badly involved, because according to the education efficiency index, which is, say, a few years ago, but it does give a comprehensive picture of what teachers who deserve all respect for the system of public education still work in Hungary, so according to this index we are fourth among OECD countries, the first Finland, and then South Korea, Czech Republic, and Hungary is the fourth Germany in 28th place. So very few sources that you have dedicated to this area are relatively large for Hungarian teachers. In terms of fairness, however, we are very, very bad. If we look at the proportion of Resilient students who, despite their bad family background, despite bad socioeconomic status, are still struggling, coping with these tasks and performing well in school, we should see that their proportion is far below the OECD average. Does this package improve their ability to perform better? We say no. Because there are very nice words to say, new concepts to put in place here, but if we don't see the specific regulation, if we don't see where the source is, where the extra specialist would be to deal with these problems, then these problems, these problems will continue to be there, and we won't move a step forward. So just because you're here to force a new law or a new law amendment through Parliament, it's not going to solve these issues. The problem will be the same next year, and beyond, and even after, for example, if we stay on the issue of fairness, then staying where you come from, there is no mobility, and this public education system does not provide the right mobility. In fact, vocational training has been transformed into a pedagogical shelter, the selection mechanisms that act brutally in Hungary will not change because of this amendment package. You run, let's say, a low-cost education for the common people, and if someone has the right financial resources for it, then they can continue to rescue their children from this public education, take them away, say, and then go to the private school in Debrecen, where the tuition will cost 45 million forints from kindergarten to graduation, or act as Szabó State Secretary, who has taken them to the SEK, which is obviously her heart's right to write her children wherever she wants. It is just that we should not deprive others of this right, because imagine, my fellow members of the Government, that there are very, very many parents who really want what is best for their child, and that, in the midst of today's devastated state of public education, they cannot provide that for their offspring. So, there's an elite, paid elite education for the chosen ones through private schools, but now you're gonna use this law to close gates for those middle class members who aren't happy with public education, and they want something better for their children, which they think is more appropriate than the pool of knowledge and competences received there is XXI. The challenges of the century. I ask you, if you really think that it is in the social interest of children, young people and students to go to school as long as possible, what about, for example, that the age of compulsory education in Hungary has been reduced from 18 to 16 years. What about the fact that, if we look at what has been discussed several times here, quite rightly, about the importance of early socialization, then there is hardly any budgetary resources, such as the programme of the "Secret Start" children's homes. Why is it that the school program is in doubt and you don't know what's going to happen to them. By the way, you have committed 2.5 billion forints to this programme in the next year's budget, and we would double it, because if you really mean what my colleague Pósán said here earlier, that early socialization is important, that it is important that young people with multiple disadvantages do not fall out of the public education world, then we should also focus more on these areas. We see that in the context of public education this is not going to happen, not even because it has been said several times, but again and again a Nobel Prize-winning economist named Heckman has clearly shown that the rate of return on educational expenditure is decreasing over time, and this decline is much steeper in the case of multiplely disadvantaged social groups, and you are completely ignoring this. I am not saying this, but the draft budget that we have been discussing here these days. So, it's not going to improve the situation that we're in. The fact that you are turning school directors into quasi-presidents is that the right to vote is so narrowed down, it will not improve the conditions of education in Hungary. We say that the most interested, indeed the faculty, parents and student councils should have a meaningful say in what is most relevant to them. I believe that for you there in the pro-government benches in many cases the series of scandals that, let's say, exploded in Hungary due to the appointments of head of the institution in question, when the vast majority of a faculty, 95-100 percent, supported a candidate for director when he was accompanied by the parents, the student council, and you, instead of, say, the principal, who, if any, had been in the head of his regent institution for 16 years, set up a Fidesz party commissar, a Fidesz municipal representative, obviously with a pedagogical degree, but still hangs out. And I believe that these scandals were uncomfortable for you, but Viktor Orbán said last year in the European Parliament that they would never object to silence those who expressed opposition. They do not need to be silenced now, because this counter-opinion will in fact not be born. It's not an elegant move, we have to say. Schools have been derailed into a centralised, bureaucratic and administrative system, where concrete political intervention and the possibility of control are very strong. Resources and processes have been standardised, instead of giving back to the institutions the professional, personal and budgetary autonomy that we believe they need to receive in order to improve the state of public education in Hungary. There could be more and more points from the bill, such as the question of textbooks, and it is not a coincidence that this is actually the last punch that is being taken into the free textbook choice, and that is to execute this thing. [[12.40]] We say that we need an independent textbook evaluation system that informs customers in Hungary, because that system, that uniformed something you force to teach Hungarian public education, will not produce results or improved results. They refer to the need for these amendments because of a deregulation policy, which means that restrictions should be removed. But what restrictions will be removed? The restrictions that bind the hands of Fidesz-KDNP will be removed and thrown into the paper basket, which we believe this society, parents, faculty and students would need. There are also positive elements of the proposal here, not that they are all despicable. For example, the system of applications, if they had been deputized to explain what it was all about, would perhaps be eligible, but in such a way as to put terrible extra burdens on the shoulders of teachers, not knowing how they would be paid so underpaid by the pedagogical society, and they are not at all ethically and financially valued at the level that should be done, so if you just put more burdens on their shoulders without a normal fee, then this will only result in a further shortage of teachers. It will mean that this course will be even less attractive, because if you look at the report of the National Teachers' Faculty, 40 out of 100 graduates will start this wonderful profession, and one third of them will drop out very quickly in a few years, since they do not feel the care you so well talk about and deserve. We don't know exactly what will happen to this 8,000 homeschoolers. It is not known what this new system, this individual working order, means exactly, Mr. Secretary of State. So I'm asking you very, very nicely to explain this in detail, because we can't say yes to foggy promises, some kind of blank check. Then it has to be said that, indeed, the Constitutional Court has stated that there is a case of defaulting non-law in Hungary; this was said in connection with the Taigetos Act. What about the students that really need to be dealt with? Those who are mentioned in the amending proposal in such a way that they will benefit from development pedagogical care will be subject to catching up and skills development, but there is nothing, nothing about what this will look like in practice. We don't know what happens to study groups. We don't know how to say 55. §, which is referred to here as some sort of miracle drug, how many students are affected exactly. Mr Secretary of State, I would also like to have an answer on this point that Article 55 of the Treaty provides that: § how many students are affected in Hungary. I also ask students living abroad to be involved, or those who have been rescued from visiting the classroom only, but who are here as quasi-private students, but are not registered as private students in this whole system. So, there are huge shortcomings in this bill. We could also call it a blurry mess in this form, and no offense, no offense, but we, by the way, can't vote for you from the government's actions so far. Once again, very strongly, we say that this current amendment in this form will create only confusion and further chaos and further problems. I would very much like the Secretary of State to use this opportunity to reassure parents, teachers and opposition politicians as well as students about the fact that what we have revealed here is just a malicious prediction. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's not about what we're prognosticating. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-21-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to pick up where my colleague Ander left off. Not only will they reassure us, the profession, the civilians, the parents [[Spreading his arms:]] politicians, in particular, will be pushed down the throats of the country, parents, children and the profession, teachers as well as everything else in the system of national cooperation, in which we are slowly drowning, and the whole educational system is slowly drowning. We won't be able to support it. The reason we won't know is because it's basically continuing the wrong direction you've started over the past few years. They're absolving this whole system, but they're rolling those bugs into nationalization, centralization, ideological overheating, and they're still not gonna keep poor kids in school. There is every possibility now, despite the amendment, to clean out children born under bad family conditions. Hundreds of thousands of children have dropped out of Hungarian public education since 2011 who not only dropped out of Hungarian public education without professional but also without primary education. How do they become citizens, taxpayers, pension contributors, health contributions? ! At all, the word "citizen" tells you something else, or now it's just an empty ponzung, which many of us have believed in together, by the way, right and left democrats. They continue to limit the autonomy of schools, teachers, institutional leaders, they do not consult anyone, they do not care about what really happens in Hungarian reality, somehow politically administratively puppetizing this whole thing, and then there will be what will happen and then we have to fire it somehow. It's just that things are getting worse. This package is full of pretense measures, some of which admit that there is a huge shortage of teachers, which Bence Rétvári, as many of us have asked, has always said that it is an individual case, a local case. You can't go up to any job ad without throwing away the first thing you do is look for a math teacher plus all qualifications. On the other hand, it also contains unjustified restrictions, which, in my view, is unnecessary in many places and raises constitutional concerns. For example, it raises the right of parents, since parents cannot be deprived of the right to decide how to fulfill their own child's obligation to teach. This is a very serious attack on the middle class: it limits the choice of free school. The political elite was very afraid to touch this at any time, I wonder how the Fidesz is so brave and has the power to touch it. And I do not see enough legal guarantees not to undermine this right for parents, but I will come to it in more detail. And we also have a constitutional concern at the point where they allow me to think that it is discriminatory for all other professions to recognise that teachers have a shortage of teachers, but who does not have a language examination, but who has actually completed the school, to start teaching them in a meaningful way, financially fully, that is, I think, a very serious discrimination of other professions. Equality before the law is a constitutional right. So I also find this problematic. Going further than my general statement: we discussed the budget before it, by looking at it, according to the 2020 budget, we include public and higher education as a whole, as well as public and higher education, according to the Minister of Finance, 48 billion more on the basis of the planned inflation, but the state's task will be reduced by HUF 15 billion in real terms. As long as the amount spent on public education in the 2019 budget amounted to 10.1 percent of the expenditure, in the 2020 draft this ratio is now only 9.8 percent, i.e. further decreasing. Nor does it, my fellow Members, which would be according to your own under-planned inflation for public education. The way I see it, personally, is that there will not be any changes under the Public Education Act in the 2020 budget either. I've been trying to find him no matter how many times I divide, I couldn't find him. [[12.50]] For the rest of my time, without the need for completeness, I would focus on three areas, which I consider to be the most important or particularly important areas of public interest. The reform of the home-school system, so to speak, involves virtually two study groups. On the one hand, what I have already mentioned is that there are about nine thousand children in the middle class who are responsible for caring for their parents, recognizing and getting to know the deplorable performance of Hungarian education on their own skin, organizing the conditions of quality education, and who have so far fully met the requirements of the school's compulsory reports. You now want to take away from these parents the right also enshrined in the Fundamental Law, to decide for yourself how your child fulfils the obligation to teach, because you cannot bear it, and this shows that the NER system cannot control these families and children and parents. The middle-class families rescued children from a debauched, demented, centralised public school system. There are many middle-class families who do not want to take their children to church school, but they see that today in public education they do not receive the appropriate amount of knowledge, skills, training that they would otherwise need from XXI. For the children in the century. This, in my opinion, limits the right to choose a free school to a very large extent. If these children are forced back into the system of public education, they will have to count either larger groups, a kind of consequence, or they will continue to work on the already overworked, overwhelmed, worked up, slaved, who I dare say, educator society. Stand down from this. I don't think it's the right thing to do, politically or professionally. At least leave a loophole so that these children can properly comply with the school obligation, not be forced into the system they have designed. In the case of the other group of children, it would be really desirable, and it would be good to have children with a particularly bad family background, who are expelled to private learning status mainly because of a lack of teachers and professionals, so they often force these children from poor families, who are considered problematic, back into the school community so that they can re-enter the community. However, this is not the way in which the newly created state institution, which has not been defined in the legislative amendment, decides on the status of private learner, because these disadvantaged children can continue to enjoy at home the obligations arising from the individual curriculum and will not be familiar with the inspiring power of the community. So the poor children should, in some way, have a school in Hungary where they can find their place, prepare the institutions, teachers, need a lot more teachers, medical teachers, I could tell you, but this is not going to help them again, and I fear that they will grow further, and now there will be more than 100,000 children who will drop out of public education because of the age limit of compulsory education and because of the school's non-sustainable strength. The other is the language exam. It's a great thing that the government finally admits that the number of teachers needed is running out. I just want to mention that last year 6,000 teachers obtained a full-fledged degree, but all of them were 2,300 teachers, a little over a third of the graduates, who actually started working in Hungarian education. And the other half of it is, right, and we also know that the chorus is getting more and more shifted, getting old. Well, I can tell you that according to 2016 data, 45 percent of teachers, almost half of them are over 50 years old, which means that more than 67 thousand teachers out of about 150,000 are retiring for the next 15 years. Their replacement would require at least 4,500 teachers a year, but a significant proportion of them will complete the school and run away from the public education system, go to work with a multi-company or go abroad to babysit, and a significant part of our kindergarten teachers can earn much more out of college. So it's another thing we won't know what to do with. Therefore, we understand, I understand, and my colleagues understand that during the internship period, teachers who do not yet have a language examination but who have completed their studies are intended to be treated as full-fledged teachers in terms of their wages and status, but there is a slight problem that I have already said: in those graduates without a language examination who have obtained a degree in other fields, it occurs that they are lower citizens, because they will not be given this start, and, as I said, equality before the law and non-discrimination are included even in the Fundamental Law. Therefore, we propose once again that we give all Hungarian graduates a reasonable time limit for obtaining the language exam, in case we can move forward, but do not discriminate against a group separately. There should be a different way to help teachers stay on the field. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that the previous quasi-50% wage increase, which would have a very important retention force for teachers, which has been shredded for several years, has not been given the end properly, and does not count into their basic wage, has not made the teacher's career attractive at all, because we see the numbers. Since 2014, teachers' wages are still only HUF 101 500, while the lowest guaranteed wage is HUF 149 thousand, and this is HUF 195 thousand in the case of secondary education. Do you think the current teachers' wages will compete with, say, a SPAR cashier's salary or, say, an aldes'? This is obviously what we are proposing in the budgetary law, and we are proposing that teachers' screening bases should be tied to the minimum wage at all times. This would be the first truly radical step that would reduce career leaving and make the teaching field attractive to many. I'm running out of time, so the last one: the employees and user communities of the school, parents' organisations and student governments are losing their right, so far they've given me at least a fabulous opportunity to express their opinion on the identity and professional motivations of a new director, head of the institution. It is true that over the years these opinions have been less and less taken into account, and more and more scandals have accompanied the violent appointment of party-like school directors nationwide, but at least there was publicity, so at least there was the possibility that there really was no party soldier who didn't know it, no professional quality, no support for the school community, no support for parents, no support for students, no support for the teaching community. Well, now you're gonna take that, too! You do not want to solve this problem by choosing school leaders and school leaders by consensus on the basis of professional competence, which could guarantee even in this silly system that you have done, the quality of education and a better school atmosphere. No, you're cutting off even this small license from the stakeholders. Please note that the school is not yours, and the Hungarian public school system is not for the NER system. They may have built a state party, you may think you can do anything, but take note that Hungarian taxpayers are maintaining the school in order to give their children a better future. You have no right to take away the future from an entire generation, you have no right to ruin the lives of hundreds of thousands of children. Politics cannot be so despicable as not to pay attention to the consequences of the education system that you have created. We're not gonna support it. We're gonna have to cut it out the way it is. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[13.00]]
u2019-06-21-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-71	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As Congressman Pósán can prove, I have been involved in the debate on educational legislation many times, I have also sat in the place of Secretary of State, and I know that sometimes this chair can be very uncomfortable, so all my sympathy is yours, but I must say, however, that I have never seen it before. So legislation where, for example, there is a provision where there are two types of legislation in the law for one point, because the legislator has failed to reconcile this in its own draft legislation. Paragraph 2a, if I remember correctly what you'd like, I've never seen anything like it. This bill is characterized by two things: first of all, it is actually about what the classic joke is about to say that the state is always right, but if it is not, then the first paragraph or the first point comes into force. This proposal is about the government knowing everything better; the government is smarter than anyone; the government can regulate everything better; it is smarter than schools; it is smarter than parents; it is smarter than teachers. It's the state, the government, who can make decisions about everyone's life here. And the second feature of what I have just mentioned here is that, meanwhile, it is a piece of legislation vomited with a pitchfork, which has no coherence; it doesn't add up to the references; it doesn't even match exactly what the regulatory objectives are. It is not clear, therefore, what they are based on and what the technical effects of any of the measures in the bill are, they have no idea on the basis of the justification. Obviously, this proposal has been prepared by our pro-government fellow politicians, the heads of the ministry, sometimes running into cases where they thought something about the world, or thought something about how to run the education system, and this turned out to be illegal, it's against the law, it violates the rights of students, it violates the functioning of education or it violates the basic logic. Your answer, however, is not to think about the question, not to look at how these problems could be solved, but to see that it is worse for reality. If there's a conflict between law and reality, we'll put it in the law even more, in case it works. I'll give you some examples. The first question is the regulation of entering kindergarten. I have already mentioned this: otherwise, this was not a legislative issue. I look forward to the hope that our Fidesz fellow Members in the Legislative Committee will be enlightened and we will find out what the Government's intention is anyway, because both of the regulatory methods are wrong. How does this system work today, what is the logic of this system? I must tell you that I am a believer in the extension of compulsory kindergarten. I think it's the right thing to do. This is an opportunity that is good in terms of equal opportunities and education. However, in a perfectly logical way, after dealing with children in education, we are putting many, many different situations, not small wooden cubes on the assembly line, so that I think of them in different colors, they are now painted in national colours or orange, and as a result, the legislation must also be perfectly logical to ensure that, on the basis of individual consideration, the family's life situation and the child's needs, it is possible to choose another solution. You could say that if you had carried out any kind of survey, and you could prove that, let's just say, you didn't always use that option professionally, let's say, to push out the poorer children. But you have no proof of that. I don't know about this kind of research. You didn't add such justification to the law. Of course, the fact that an impact assessment is not annexed to laws is no surprise now, but that there is no technical or other preparation of this law, it is quite obvious, and this debate was not revealed in the professional debate either, since there was no professional debate. So since you didn't ask anyone, you can't know that there are problems with this provision. What's the solution now? It doesn't matter. The way we're going to do this is that you can only get acquittal until you're four years old, not five years old, so I'm sure more people will go to kindergarten. The solution is not to create, for example, a type of host kindergarten environment where parents would be happy to bring their children even if the custody of the child was solved at home. It is not the solution to create more flexible forms of traditional, let me say, customary, 8 to 4 or 8 to 5 kindergartens instead of 7 to 5 forms; we look at how to organise kindergarten life in a way that gives the family more flexibility and choice. No, because you can only think in this prussian logic of the wood cube maker, that what's good is mandatory, and then we've solved everything. Of course, what's good is you decide, not the family, not the profession, not the kindergarten, the government will know that much better. Is it the other way around, on the contrary, the end of kindergarten when the kid goes to school? This has been tightened twice in the previous round. By the way, there was a perfectly normal system of this, where professional arguments, the teacher and the parent decided to do so, in a not well-controlled but fair, normal system. It has already been introduced that the parent doesn't talk too much about it, and the profession, the kindergarten, doesn't talk too much, but we have now come to the conclusion that the high government will decide because he is so smart, he knows. He really knows how to treat these kids. It's true that civil servants will flee from there, but there will be someone who will decide for them. There is, I would add, a legal problem, because there is obviously no way to appeal against such a decision. Otherwise, the whole bill is characterised by taking out remedies or weakening them everywhere. So the possibility that if a parent thinks that a child should have a negative decision should have an appropriate remedy against it is taken out everywhere, but I mentioned that the state is always right or the government, why should it even take time here with a remedy, or, as Mr Pósán said in another case, what unnecessary bureaucracy this means. Really, really, what unnecessary bureaucracy! In fact, it would be enough to restore the board's education department and the party committee with them, so they could decide everything. We see a similar approach in the case of private students. The home-school system has problems. I agree with that. In this, I think that Congressman Pósán rightly refers to the fact that the private learning system is not only used for what it is for to give students, who are otherwise in a special situation, such an exemption, but are also used to do so sometimes by research to push poor or troubled children out of school. But what's the answer to that? I need stronger guarantees with homeschool status. There should be protection against forcing a parent to become a private student by subtle force. What's your solution? We'll put an end to it, that's for sure. Let the child be there, and then there'll be some sort of special course. We don't know what it is. I've only heard about it in college, but I'm sure we'll introduce it in junior high, and from here on, there'll be control over it. Of course, we know that the person you think you need to have will have an individual course that you think you should have, but there is no legal guarantee behind it. Anyone with a sufficiently good output will get a discount for their child, if you think so, but the average person is not entitled to it, once again there is no legal guarantee. What about children with special needs? Here, Mr State Secretary, he was happy to report that the Constitutional Court approved, on the one hand, the way you regulated it and, on the other hand, made it even better. The thing is, none of this is true. The Constitutional Court has decided that, as previously regulated in this so-called Taigetos Act, the acquittal of students with special educational needs and special pedagogical needs, and the advantages they should receive, the Constitutional Court said that it is not well regulated, this is included in the Constitutional Court's judgment. It clearly states, in point 82, that this is not appropriate, that the necessary legislation has not been fully established by the legislator, that this is why constitutional fundamental rights are being brought here, my dear Secretary of State. [[13.10]] You are not such as to submit an amendment to your own fully protected law if you are not obliged to submit it even if you are obliged to do so, so I appreciate that you are at least trying to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Unfortunately, however, this did not work, because the essence of the Constitutional Court decision is that the differentiated situation of these students requires differentiated regulation and differentiated solutions, and this is not ensured by the current legislation. I will not bring the matter of classification here in detail, this is a very, very long-standing debate. I must continue to tell you that you underestimate the fantasy of both parents, schools and teachers if you think that otherwise the school and the parent can communicate only in numbers from 1 to 5. This is an obvious misunderstanding. My kid goes to a school where all he gets is a text review, and I'm totally happy with it, and I can figure it out, and I don't really want to know if the kid's a four or a four or a five or a three-quarter. But I accept that some people have a need for this, many parents expect this, there is no problem with that; I can also say that in the debates that we have been having for ten or twelve years, probably those who thought that the ban on classification was excessive, there is no problem with that, it is an established social code system. What's the point of pushing? 'Cause if the kid has to leave, that's the rule you can make. I know it's always the argument that when he goes to another school; well, if he goes to another school, obviously in the event that he gets a grade in the school's pedagogical program, he needs to be recorded. I would add that in this case, the current legislation will ease it. Only if you touch it, why can't you do a normal regulation, why can't you trust the teachers, the school communities, to decide how they want to solve the evaluation? In the case of textbooks, there are wonderful things, and I'm not going to come up with that for a long time. It's the same thing I told you before. What's up? You've been violating textbook law for years. They do not allow alternative textbooks to remain on the market, they have designed the rules for textbook support to apply only to textbooks developed by the uncle of state, except for the ecclesiasticals, of course, because church schools are always exceptions, churches may know everything even better than the government, but in addition, nothing else is possible but these equatorial books. The most beautiful, really, I would say I don't want to refer to historical eras, let's just say XX. It is typical of the less cheerful ages of the century to be an equatorial book, so that we can color the little wooden cube appropriately orange; it is only a problem if the child can learn from a textbook in which, let's say, there is no image of Viktor Orbán. We understand that. So what do they do now? Now they will abolish simply the law on textbooks, and some of its paragraphs will be brought in here, completely unnecessary, because they will not change anything from this point of view, so will your central thingy produce textbooks, continue to be as poor in professional capacity as they have been, and will continue to try to force them on schools, of course, whichever one of them has a little sense, has the opportunity to circumvent these laws. But in the educational order, we know that this condition, as I mentioned, has evolved in the 1950s and 1960s and 1970s, so and so, I understand. I look forward to the arrival of the pioneers dressed in orange ties and small drummers. The point is, however, that it is completely unnecessary to amend the textbook law. The concept is wrong. The concept is wrong that the state can produce only good textbooks, and everyone else is otherwise unfit. A series of well-functioning workshops are being destroyed, which added a lot to the Hungarian education system; it is not even possible to say that they were all connected in any way, let's say, to more liberal or modern educational ideas, there are a lot of them that issued textbooks with a completely conservative view, and that is well, because it is possible to decide what a school community would like. I would like to talk very briefly about the case of the head of the institution. However, it was a truly wonderful justification, as Mr Pósán said here, that what a terrible bureaucracy it is to ask the faculty and the workers separately, and that is why the opinion must be stopped. How can I put this delicately? This is, to a certain extent, a degree of absurdity that is surprising even in this House. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In short, I can say that we cannot support this bill either in detail or in its entirety. Take it back. Everyone's better off, especially children and schools. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-21-72	Thank you very much, fellow Member. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the news has come to me that it is cold in the room. I've got it under control, they're blowing in 22 degrees of air. I hope no one has a problem. [[Intercoms: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2019-06-21-73	Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I would like to explain why we do not support this bill in detail. I would like to quote a few sentences from the position of the National Association of Limited Movements Associations, which can be accused of dissenting opposition. MEOSZ does not consider that the planned changes are indeed in the interest of the pupils concerned and that private learning status is a necessity for disabled pupils and not one of the alternatives. MEOS calls for the parliamentary debate on the amendment to be postponed. I'm moving on. MEOSZ grievances that there was no social consultation in this law, so they ask that the members of the National Disability Council discuss the law and then re-submit it, so the way the law is presented does not allow people who are serious about social participation to support this law. What does MEOSZ mean when it says that in children with disabilities, home-school status is a necessity and not an optional alternative? I would like to do this in addition to propaganda for two concrete people, who really exist in Hungary, who really do exist in Hungary, to tell their story about their child. The story of a 13-year-old autistic young lady in one of the Vas counties. He says that after receiving the autism diagnosis for the child, this is probably a more complex procedure than we would like to do, he was directed to an inclusive school. There's usually one in the county seat, in most counties. She's in a 32-person class. It does not need to be explained in detail what a child diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder would mean in such a large class. She is a child with very good intellectual abilities, but she was in the host school with children with less intellectual abilities. This meant that he could not develop specifically, so he was offered home-school status to this child, so he goes to school once a week, and they also solve improvements, very hard, very expensive. Now I'm not going to explain that the parents didn't get any professional support or what an incredible administrative snowball it was until it could be done. The fact is that such a child might be a good thing, but in order for him to be in the school, not once a week, but several times a week, I do not know where they could provide this in the countryside, outside Budapest, where they could provide it, hardly guarantee development, and I do not know where to think with the current infrastructure in Hungary in its reality, so that they can ensure that there is a room in the school where he can go quietly, say, half an hour, that they cannot provide that either. So they're not in your reality. So it's in vain to write it down in a law if they can't keep what the law basically requires in most places. He's a medical educator. There's not enough. Even though the traveler's pedagogical system was introduced, in most Hungarian settlements that do not have county rights, the parents concerned cannot access the medical pedagogical development; they simply cannot. The other thing I'd like to say is a capital example, here the child goes to the AMI. He said that there was a shortage of specialists that parents in nursing were asked to take the child away at 13:00 a.m., because they could provide two mornings, but one development educator in the afternoon. When, in reality, these parents find it so difficult to deal with their children's education, homeschooling status is a constant compulsion that they can solve in some way to educate their children. [[13.20]] What's with the individual curriculum? A professional debate could be held about it and private learning status could be retained and such a status could be created separately. But what this is, in particular, is not known, because it will be regulated in a regulation, the organisations concerned were not told what the regulation was, and how should I say, the AOSZ, which has had a close enough relationship with the EMMI, is not to know what will happen in this regulation. So you don't know what it is. But the fact that there are so many SNI students in private learning systems shows the shortcomings of the education system in itself and how little money is given in the budget, but they won't be able to change it here by law. They could use a source to change that. As long as the social pay table is like this, until 15 percent is the medical pedagogical supplement, you can make any law, you can call it an individual tuition, you can call it anything, but the problem will be that in rural Hungary you cannot diagnose your child, you cannot improve your child, or you can't, say, take it under a 32-person number. If you want to deal with something that helps these children, I suggest that we regulate, for example, if someone writes that autism can teach students with a spectrum disorder, say, in a school, because it's in the articles of association, how you can write it, we regulate it as a rule of law. That would be a solution to this situation and then give you the money to do it. But that doesn't solve the situation of those who forced their children into homeschool status because they simply can't do anything else. Mr Pósán said, and Mr Secretary of State said that private learning status is not good, because these children must also be socialised. Yes, it is indeed the professional consensus that a significant part of them should be socialized, because this will help everyone to prepare for life after school. But with 32 people, a child with an autism spectrum disorder cannot socialize. That's not the right socialization for him. He can't socialize with such class numbers, such a teacher's shortage. You could socialize a child diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder in a population of up to 12 if you have the medical pedagogical assistant who does this and has nothing else to do with it. This may be part of the law, but in Hungarian reality it is not, so it would be better to deal with it. Even for the SNI part of the law, I would say that changing the output requirements in itself, or placing a flexibility in the output requirements, would not be a bad thing. But in order to do that, once again, the supply system would have to be strengthened. So no matter what laws are passed until more money is given, it is irrelevant what is written into the law, because everyone will look for personal welfare outside the system in which Hungarian people who pay taxes cannot otherwise participate. I would like to say one more thing, because I broadly agree with my fellow Member, Arató, but I think there is one thing that has been left out painfully. Congressman Pósan mentioned how terrible it is that non-educators working in schools have a say, say, in the appointment of a director. [[Dr. László Pósán: I didn't say that!]] But he did mention non-peducators working at school. At present, the guaranteed minimum wage does not exceed their salary, that is the case. So, if we've talked about them and had an opinion on their involvement in the school's future or in the school's management, then it could be said that these people have not received any wage increases in the last nine years. They're the ones who missed out on the career model, and they're the ones who didn't get a raise other than the guaranteed minimum wage. If they already touch this pay, the wages of these thousands of non-educators working very honestly in the education system should also be improved. The fact that they've eased their qualifications again because of the lack of teachers, it shows that teachers' wages are very low. That's what this shows, because otherwise it wouldn't have to be done. It may also be a worthy debate that, let's say, in the case of science subjects in the British system, the basic degree should also involve a pedagogical degree, such as in my case in Scotland, this is an interesting debate, this can be carried out, but the fact is that this will not solve the number of chemistry teachers applying to a master's degree or a geography teacher's master's degree in a year. This is one of the lowest-paid professions in Hungary today. So as long as the salaries are so low, it's actually possible to reduce the input requirements continuously, and what you could really do is make the labour market a little more flexible, that you don't necessarily have to go to a special master's class to teach, but that still doesn't solve the problem, that you won't go to a teacher with such a starting teacher's salary to teach your children, not mine. The fact that the textbook itself and this is a philosophical question is free is fine. The fact that there's a basic course that needs to be followed, that's fine, that's always been the case. But for example, in the field of history books or, let's say, in the field of Hungarian literature textbooks, why not give the choice? It's not a conservative idea of the world. To think that you here, in two-thirds majority, know better than the mother or father in a family, or what you want to teach your child, and that the state has a greater say in the ideological education of the child than that of the child's parents, it is not a conservative idea. There are many adjectives that can be used to see what that thought is, but it is certainly not conservative. Because if the family is a component of Hungarian society, as you say about every two weeks, it is the parents in the family who are primarily responsible for the child's life. Not you! You were not elected to raise all Hungarian children from László Pósán to the Secretary of State, and you have parents. They're here! The thing is, that's why I don't understand why the election is constantly being reduced. Moreover, the choice of textbooks is not necessarily a question of social inequality, such as a question of free schooling, which can be looked at in this respect, or a thousand other issues relating to education. The textbook is about wanting your child to think the same thing about the world as he does most of the time, but if you want to do so, feel free to go to a conservative school. If they already give so much money to church schools and get this much extra support to raise children differently from an ideological point of view, then let them do so in non-church schools. It's still very much linked to the election of the director. The fact that he can lead a faculty, most likely those on the faculty can. Because we're not gonna tell you from here to Szombathely to Nyíregyháza who's the best. Unless what my fellow Member Arató says is that the best person to know, say, the president of the Fidesz constituency best, or went out with him for a beer, or I don't know what these people are doing. But the fact is that there are basically very few European examples of this being the case. Where he is is bad, by the way. For example, this is the case in Austria, where there is a very high percentage of party membership in school directors, but this is not an example to follow. So what I could say is that because someone is further west and you were a youth class of the SDS, you do not always have to follow all Western examples; although this is also a minority among Western examples. So, overall, I would like to say that this law is not acceptable because of the way in which it was submitted, because at the beginning I read the resolution of MEOSZ that it was not in full agreement with them. I don't think it's right, and philosophically neither a Christian Democrat nor a conservative, but it's about you being the best-sherwisser, who knows everything better than anyone, in every family, deciding what textbooks to learn, what school to go to, and what to think about the world. I don't think it's based on civil values. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-21-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Congressman Bence Tordai. There you go. You have the floor. [[In the notary seat, Dr. Winner Vinnai is replaced by László Földi.]]
u2019-06-21-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President. You are open to the fact that this amending package actually contains only minor technical amendments and that you do not expect to draw any particular emotion from the stakeholders. [[13.30]] Then let us just list the organisations that have written letters to you, to us, to all Members of Parliament. I'd like to take a quote or two. Such was, for example, the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers; they said in their letter that several points are unacceptable, and other proposals are not developed at such a level as to cause more harm in education than they would be used in their current form, mainly because of the lack of coordination with stakeholders. He wrote a letter from the student council of eight schools. I very much appreciate that young people have taken the trouble to protest, especially against the amendment that would exclude students from the possibility of commenting during the process of appointing school directors. The following student governments protest: the student self-government of the ELTE Apáczai Csere János Practitioner High School and College, the student self-government of the Liszt Ferenc Academy of Music Béla Bartók Secondary School of Music and Instrumental Arts, the student self-government of the Eötvös József High School in Budapest, the student self-government of the ELTE Miklós Radnóti Practitioner Primary School and Practitioner High School, the student self-government of the II. The student self-government of Ferenc Rákóczi High School, the student self-government of the SZTE Practitioner High School, the student self-government of the ELTE Trefort Ágoston Training School and the student self-government of the Veres Pálné High School. Among other things, the Hungarian Waldorf Association protested. And if you go to Kossuth Square in an hour, I'll tell you who you're going to meet from the CSOs. Hang on or take the pills, 32 non-governmental organizations stand up against your public education law-modifying package. These are: Agora Education Round Table, Academic Workers' Forum, Foundation and Private Schools Association, Amnesty International Hungary, Civil Public Education Platform, CSEVE Group, Dunakanyar Education Workshop Foundation, Phoenix Movement, Network for Freedom of Teaching, Haver Foundation, Uninvited Network, True Pearl Foundation, Community Building Movement, Hungarian Mothers, Hungarian Educational Society, Hungarian Teachers' Association, Different state in obstetrics! Movement, Educational Leaders Union, Democratic Union of Teachers, Teachers Union, ReSuli Foundation, STEP - Szeged Teacher Cooperation Platform, Szikra Talent Care Association, Parental Sound Community, Parental Alliance for the Future of Our Children, Teachers Movement, National Association of Teachers, TASZ, Talented Children and Their Parents Children and Their Parents Accompaniment, Natural Life and Child Education Foundation, History Teachers' Association and the Association of Responding Parents. So these are those who, apart from opposition parties, have expressed their opposition or express their opposition in the very near future. And it is relatively rare that, depending on the worldview, such a consensus exists between representatives of Jobbik, LMP, DK, MSZP, Dialogue and Independents. So maybe, maybe, maybe there's something about these excuses. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: What do you disagree about?]] One more time. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: What do you disagree about? The president's ringing the bell.]] I see. So if everyone on the freeway comes across, then maybe you guys are going the wrong way. I, having little chance of persuading you about our right and the real interests of Hungarian society, have developed a hobby in recent years to try to understand at least why you are doing what you are doing. A very simple principle of directing always seemed to work: if Fidesz touches something and alters something, it usually takes place in order to increase their economic or political power, except for minor things. Now, no matter how I look at it, there are things in this amending package that don't fit in this framework. I understand one thing, and I know they're not gonna let that go. For example, by blackmailing school directors that they can actually be fired for anything at any time, there's the whip and there's a honeycomb on the other side, that if they behave well, they will be able to premise these school directors here in the law or anywhere else, according to undefined criteria. This is a relatively clear line, so you want to extend your power to public education institutions in such direct, direct ways. At least I understand that, but there are measures that are really very difficult to place. Now, let me open a personal part here. I'm a parent, I'm a four-year-old dad, I just came from graduation. Interestingly, those who are somewhat familiar with education tend to have their children enrolled in schools that are outside your system of public education. I had my children written at a school like this, and their certificate, which I now have in my first and third grade daughters, looked like their teacher drew one for them and wrote a poem to him, and this poem will be told every week the following year, and it will guide and guide them somewhat to find their own way. We, of course, receive a long text evaluation, receive one from the teacher, and receive it from all the teachers. And compared to that, you write here the 18th. In the justification for Section 5 of the Act on the obligation to give merit marks, it becomes clear then that the feedback on the child's performance will be made clear. On the one hand, a first-grade kid shouldn't do it, but a third-grader shouldn't do it, develop, and enjoy it, which is becoming more difficult in public education, forced-out schools. So that they should improve, and the feedback on this is valuable, which is shown in personal conversations and text reviews; the feedback is clear to me that I get your notebook, we look at it together, and I see that you draw, and not that you get a B in drawing. What does it mean to get a B in drawing or an A in attitude? Seriously, really, is that gonna help anything? So far, the situation in alternative schools was that if someone wanted to change schools, they got a merit mark, if they were going to be recruited, they got a year-end grade mark in the upper grades, but this violent will, at any cost, force everyone into a framework that we here in the well-conditioned offices of Budapest consider appropriate, that is a complete mistake. And by the way, I'd like to point out that with the visible drivers that usually explain your policy, Fidesz policy, they're in complete conflict with increasing money and power. So when they take on such unnecessary conflicts, when they really piss off parents, school communities, teachers and professionals working in other schools, they really are complete local communities, because one of the most important community-organizing forces is the school in most settlements and parts of the city, so if they draw on people's anger in unnecessary things, that's not good for you either. Think a little bit about at least the amendments that we have practically all listed here, why they are problematic and which will be listed in front of the press by the 32 civil society organisations mentioned and the representatives of opposition parties, at least those that do not help you to cement your power, let them go. What if, for once, I didn't say they were generous, but the Bornish nonsense that made them enemies of themselves would at least be taken out of this amending package? I think that you too have an interest in this, and it has really been seen that this bill is completely unprepared, that no one will be upset if, after the detailed debate, after the committee debate, amendments are adopted and at least some very problematic points are taken out of this bill. In fact, believe that not only we oppositionists, not only are representatives of all sides involved in education, but also civil society organisations, but also their own voters, will be grateful to you. Please consider it. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-21-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have the first independent representatives to make a statement. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-06-21-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have to start here by saying that this bill is a scandal. I find it absolutely amazing the communication published by the Ministry of Human Resources a week earlier, and what the Secretary of State here has basically read here in the Hungarian Parliament, and with which he has started this whole debate, they are basically basing on what nuclear bombs have been loaded into this salad law. And the timing is totally perverted: these kids we're talking about are going on vacation, but so are their teachers. Parents too were totally tired of waiting for summer to begin and there to be tiresome things to do as parents. But in any case, the country was about to take a vacation. Seriously, Mr. Secretary, did you consider this the most appropriate moment to throw all this into the children's necks? ! And where is Zsolt Semyen? This bill says he's the petitioner. The rapporteur was Dr. Miklós Kásler. Mr. Secretary Bodis is sitting here. Well, how's that? ! Is it that big of a deal that the ministers don't even come to work anymore? [[13.40]] Come and reason with me. Let's argue about this. But the fact that you read a ministry statement here is not a debate for me, especially on a subject like this. And it's Friday, Friday, 1:41 p.m. This bill was due on Tuesday, and you reduced it to the last item of the week and fucked this important bill. Why? Are you available at this time, or are these three Fidesz guys sitting here free now, or what's the excuse? Tuesday afternoon, there's much more political attention to what's going on in this country. You did it on purpose Friday afternoon, that when people prepare for the weekend, for a summer weekend, don't pay attention to what's going on here. But we have made sure that they pay attention, because here in the box are representatives of the organizations, many of them who are attacking this bill. I'll attack him myself in all 15 minutes, and then probably for a lifetime, if you don't take that back. I'd like to tell you there's no such thing. So there's no such thing as you guys not talking to anyone and saying that it's a bagatell story, or small or small. Here are the trade unions, the PDS, the PS, they didn't talk to anyone. Do not say that being sent before submission and then read in half an hour by an organization, it exhausts the category of any kind of reconciliation because it does not exhaust it. It was said that there was a proposal from the PSP and that it had not been taken into account, and I read it in the newspaper. Oh, why did I read it in the paper? Because Zsolt Semjén submitted this bill, this means that he did not enter the committee phase. I tell the voters that we are actually discussing this bill without a committee debate before it, this is our first meeting here in the sixth grade, I don't know how many of us are, I mean, there are more of us here on the opposition side, but you're barely in the room. Is this how we're gonna discuss this? And there are the others: Parental Voice, Hungarian Educational Society, Association of Foundation and Private Schools, parents and teachers of private students, this is the ReSuli Foundation, MEOSZ, a mass of students starting with the Hungarian Waldorf Association. Nine organizations wrote us letters [[He's showing letters:]] I've collected a lot for you, Mr. Secretary, in case you haven't read these. I'll give it to you after I finish my speech. I just want you to know what a big lie it is that it hasn't caused a lot of anger here. A lot of people in Kossuth Square are gathering now because they have opinions about the bill, and it's not positive at all, and it's a bunch of civil society organisations. We're outraged! Then let's talk a little bit more about the fact that such different proposals are being put together, which basically means that if we go into the details, we can't demonstrate in such a debate with sufficient grounds what is happening here again in relation to the education law, so I'm going to start with this, so that I don't run out of time. This is about, Mr. Secretary of State, please tell the ministers that the world is going in the same direction, and you are going tenentically in the other direction. Well, that's the way it is with education. They talk more and more about professionals, not opposition activists, but professionals, that individual skills and skills should be taken into account, that students are different, that they need to be centralized rather than uniformed, but that children should be helped to get as much help as possible in order to become happy adults. The education system has a key role to play in this, as you know that in many cases teachers spend more time with their children on weekdays than their own parents, it doesn't matter what kind of education these children receive. Compared to this, this is a new direction, a very serious turn in the direction where practically all rights are deprived of students and parents when it comes to freedom of choice, I will not talk about poor teachers, but this is a completely opposite direction to where the world goes and where it would be logical to go. The other is this total mistrust. You don't trust anyone, the child, the teacher or the parent, you trust no one, you trust the Ministry of Human Resources, because you're sitting there, and there's practically all the amendments you want to focus your own power on, parents, directors, students being suppressed. This bill could be called the child's last Fidesz-KDNP. You put the opposite in public on the streets of the country, but it's practically an assassination attempt on children. That's what we're talking about here and now, Friday afternoon, it's 40 degrees outside, I don't know what it is, but the point is, to time a holiday law like this, it also shows that they want to sit down in the summer with the emotions that the law whipped up, and then in the fall everyone pretends nothing happened. But something's happening right here, right now. Listen to this country, because something's happening here and now. What about the principals? Let's take a look at these little things you're talking about. In short and concisely, if someone has a negative opinion about the competent director, it will not be visible now, this bill package knows this. Technically, the rights of opinion of the faculty, the parental community and the student council are being denied. Is this also, fellow Members, unnecessary administration according to Fidesz and KDNP? How's that? ! You're not gonna see a counter-opinion. And then there's the principal. If you behave as the party recommends, you will receive money. What objective criteria? You spoke of some objective criteria that will be regulated by decree. What are these exactly? 'Cause I think loyalty, for example, is, uh, a pep talk, you know, Secretary of State. And if he doesn't do what he's supposed to do, he's gonna get fired, and that's the easy way out. So what are we talking about here? They discipline school principals, let's say we call things the way they are. Free textbooks. There are no free textbooks. There are free-to-use loanbooks, they have to be returned. Let's be a little more precise. In return, half the country hates these textbooks, and there is even a research, 70 percent hates the system, and 80 percent rejects poor quality. But you know what? Yes, I'm an opposition representative, but here's the French teacher's recent position. I quote: I have already quoted a quarter-century, over-the-top, textbook that is barely suitable for raising students' interest and maintaining their motivation, and they do not want to use it, Mr. Secretary of State. Further quote: the system is considered self-mutilation, the main obstacle to high-quality professional work. They demand reregulation and use two more useful series of textbooks so that students can learn French better. Is this some kind of anti-national act, French knowledge? Okay, let's keep looking at English. I quote the teacher: for the next academic year, we cannot order the most used English textbook for high school students Solutions because they took it off Kello. They say we order New English File, but it's for adults. Today, I spent a long ten minutes in one of my classes trying to show a native language video to one of my groups, and I made a worksheet for it, but the computer froze, as always, and I could continue here. The teachers therefore stand up for lack of appropriate textbooks and want good textbooks, and I would like to note two things here. You are the ones who want to make it mandatory to go to higher education with a language exam. Ladies and Gentlemen, Wouldn't it be worth giving students textbooks that can be used to make this language exam a success? Wouldn't that be a basic need? And here he is, by the way, in this bill, that he can work in a graduate position without a degree because he doesn't have a language exam. This tells me one thing, that you know exactly what the position of language education in the current school system is, and that by the end of the university, many cannot pass that language exam, let alone at the beginning. Why, then, do they now require a compulsory language exam, and why not help French teachers, English teachers, and all other teachers to teach from useful textbooks? Secretary of State, we did not have a chance to talk on the committee, because Zsolt Semjén, who is not here, submitted this bill, answer, please, to the French teachers, answer the English teachers and answer everyone, because I am not representing myself, but these people. Let's move on. Yeah, salad law. A small leap, Taigetos Act, the so-called correction of the Taigetos Act. The complete opposition turned to the Constitutional Court, and because we did not like the proposal very much, and we did not think it right to classify children with learning difficulties, for example, from everything, and we did not think it right that teachers with no qualifications, motivated by a shortage of professionals, could also deal with children with minor disabilities. This Taigetos Act started with the dropout and had a lot of negative effects on the children. I would like to stress that the Constitutional Court has been sitting on this answer for a long time, but then it came out with the resolution that you have written in this salad law until 30 June that you will provide development pedagogical care, subject catching up and skills development for the children concerned. In particular, the Constitutional Court stated that it was irresponsible to pass on children with learning difficulties, which is why you were forced to take action. I like to see things in one piece, even if it's a salad law. In the same law, so you have appointed a professional and non-professional to deal with these children together, and in the same law there is this particular purpose, a new kind of overtime, which I already know from the administration, oh, I've heard all sorts of stories about it. It's basically that you're going to be focusing on the overworked pedagogical society. Yeah, that's why there's wages, but when are they gonna do that, and where are you gonna get a professional to eliminate the problem caused by the Taigetos Act? [[13.50]] Well, it's probably going to be that non-skilled teachers will be given the task of dealing with these children in addition to their already installed working hours. And by the way, we're gonna have to talk a little bit about the lack of a teacher. You guys are doing everything you can to make sure you don't have to raise your wages. Here is the deployment of uneducated teachers, increasing the number of lecturers, in one place a public servant, in the other place a contract of assignment, in the other place this task, perhaps even the introduction of private teachers into the system, practically all of this is done by you in order to try to find a way to make this particular wage increase, which is very necessary to unravel. You're not gonna make it. And that is certainly not the solution that the Constitutional Court has in mind, but it is certainly not the solution that I think of, for example. I quote a mother, mother of three, son of severe dyslexic and dysgraphic. You introduced this child to grade him from math. These are you, here, the Fidesz and the KDNP! Mother writes: "The self-confidence suffers enormous damage, and it can be seen even now at ten years of age. What I built the other day, the next day, they're gonna level it with the ground for a test. Mr. Secretary. What do you think you're doing? ! Why do you make children suffer? Is the child your first? No! It's here, it's written by the mother. Well, if you couldn't count, but you'd be good at everything else, and you'd be constantly tortured to write a math test, how would you feel? And then there's the abolition of homeschool status, yes. So, I want you to clarify exactly what this is about. You said one key thing in which you put the public education system above all other systems. Technically, you will be violating the rights of parents, which is clearly seen in this proposal. But I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. On the one hand, it's the child who's going to get hurt again if you do this, and I'm really asking you, is there anything else that matters to you? We are talking here about a lot of children in life; I don't know, starting from an athlete through art, traffic, diplomats, so there are a lot of children who are currently studying at home. Tell me, Secretary of State, what will happen in that particular regulation that you will bring out, exactly what will this authority do? We don't understand. It is a very disturbing factor in this bill that they will take you, and they will do a lot of things by decree, which will not be affected by anyone, and which we do not know anything about right now. What's an objective criterion? Who are these people? Who's gonna be sitting in the authorities? What's this gonna look like? What should parents prepare for, and especially what should the children prepare for? And why did you have to do this so urgently, on the threshold of summer, with the regulations coming later? What's going on in the Ministry, Mr. Secretary of State? If the goal is to prevent children in disadvantaged areas from getting out of school without actually volunteering, but parents are being introduced by some teachers to become homeschoolers, then turn the world upside down. Here's the budget, I want to see the money, the resources, the different options for people who will go there and teach them to help these kids to stay in school. I would like to quote Nóra L. Ritók, he said so, and he is absolutely right that we need professionals, we need to increase professional training. Developer educators, school psychologists, social workers are needed, because, and I add, Mr. Secretary of State, it is not enough to put the children back in the class, to ensure that they can stay there and have results, so that teachers can move on with these children. I would like to see where this is in this bill, what you will do for it. So I can tell you that this is a scandal in this state, and we will make sure that this scandal can survive and find a solution to the protection of children, because we really care about children, obviously and unfortunately, against you.
u2019-06-21-78	Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Polish ethnic advocate Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue, and then continue to translate them in Hungarian. Here you are, Madam Speaker, the floor is yours.
u2019-06-21-79	Szanowny Panie Marszałku, szanowni posłowie, szanowni rzecznicy, witam wszystkich bardzo serdecznie. Panie Marszałku, dziękuję za udzielenie mi głosu. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Speaker Woman! Welcome, everyone. Mr President, thank you for the floor. The Committee of Nationalities is CCXXXII of 2013 on the amendment of certain laws relating to public education and the provision of national public education textbooks. T/6457. As regards the legislative proposal No. 13, it is concerned with what it contains. In this context, I thank the House Committee for declaring the bill a national agenda and for the fact that the rapporteur has already proposed that it be negotiated as such. The committee of nationalities put the bill on the agenda at its meeting on 13 June 2019, held a debate on the proposal and formulated the opinion of the Commission. With 12 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against, he unanimously decided to hold a detailed debate on the bill in accordance with Rule 32 of the House Rules. § 2 of the bill as a whole. I would like to address six issues in my speech, in part in the form of comments on the text of the proposed amendment, in part regardless of this, in order to resolve the problems of public education that have already existed for Hungarian nationalities as soon as possible. 1. Any amendment of the right to vote or to agree. The bill is set at 23 and 24. § 3 of the Public Education Act. 83 and 84. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice It is essentially a matter of replacing the right of agreement of the national authorities concerned with the substantive maintenance decisions relating to the institution involved in the education of nationality, such as the appointment of a director, with the right of opinion. This is an incomprehensible and extremely worrying proposal from the point of view of nationalities, the vote of which would in fact create the opportunity to intervene in the cultural autonomy of individual nationalities. I do not think that would have been the legislator's intention. Are you sure the author insists on this amendment? We are asking that the passes on the right to vote and to vote on nationalities remain unchanged. 2. Reduce the wasteful nature of mandatory infrastructure. The bill is 9. Article 9 of the Public Education Act. The aim is to amend paragraph 9 of this Article. The change would reduce the disproportionate financial burden on the maintainer and the unnecessary spending of budget money in the case of persistently low numbers of ethnic public education institutions. We agree with this, we support the intention, because it is not realistic to have to create 52 sq m classrooms instead of the 12-20 sq m required for a minority school with 8-10 students per class per year. It also seems wasteful that a minority school with up to eight classes, which provides public education services to a maximum of 80 to 100 students, under the current rules, has more than 30 different rooms with classrooms, group rooms, specialized classrooms, individual development rooms, logopedics employers, general equipment stores, specialized classrooms, general storage facilities and others, with a total surface area of more than 1000 square meters. In addition, the maintenance of these properties, heating, cleaning, maintenance and maintenance also place significant financial burdens on the maintenance nationality community. [[14.00]] T/6457. The quoted detail of the legislative proposal No.3 seeks to remedy this problem, but we do not believe that the solution offered by it is sufficiently economical, because it still does not take due account of the specific situation of ethnic public education that is different from that of the average. The national minority law allows the creation of really small groups of at least 8 people, classes. This is much lower than the minimum number in the basic public education case in the latter kindergartens for 13 people, in primary schools for 14 people, in high school for 26 people. By the way, this is a good example of positive discrimination that is essential for the survival of nationalities. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] We recommend that the bill take into account the substantially different group and class size minimums in the case of ethnic public education institutions: 8 persons and averages: 10-12 persons, and adjust the standards accordingly. 3. It is a matter of introducing a preparatory year for nationalities. In order to understand the situation, it is necessary to say that, in the case of large numbers of nationalities, ethnic pre-school care is not carried out on a complementary basis on the seven days of the week, where children also use language occupations on the basis of a separate programme. The situation is quite different for small-scale nationalities, especially those that run supplementary ethnic language schools and do not have the opportunity to set up a minority kindergarten. In these cases, there are great differences between children who start the first class of the minority supplemental school, in the knowledge of the language of nationality. The creation of a preparatory year for complementary ethnic schools could be a solution to this problem. The sole aim of the occupations to be held here would be to ensure equal opportunities, integration and language catching up, and only children who would start their studies at the supplementary ethnic school in the next academic year would participate. This would not be entirely unprecedented, because similar preparatory classes already exist in the public education system where subjects are taught in a foreign language, such as English. For us nationalities, it is therefore very important to include in the Public Education Act the possibility of starting the preparatory year before the first year of primary secondary schools. 4. The situation of ethnic faith education. The bill is 12. § 35/B of the Public Education Act § 3 which deals with the conditions to be fulfilled by persons involved in the teaching of faith and ethics. In this connection, we propose two amendments or amendments. On the one hand, it would be appropriate for nationalism to be taught in Article 35. § 35/A. § 35/B. It would be regulated in a separate section, which would show that national faith education takes place in a minority language. Furthermore, the possibility of this should be incorporated into the text of the bill, so that church persons, priests and nuns belonging to the national minority in the ethnic public education institutions can also have faith and ethics education, who are not Hungarian citizens and/or who do not have the necessary Hungarian education. 5. Status of the nationality textbook supply. The bill put forward for discussion integrates the provisions of the so far separate textbook provision law into the Public Education Act, which will therefore also regulate the provision of textbooks to ethnic schools. In this context, we would propose two amendments. On the one hand, we propose that the concept of a nationality textbook should be included in the Public Education Act. This is important because, for example, the textbook of the subject of ethnicity folk studies is not a textbook of the National Basics. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the case of nationalities where national minority education is complementary, there are very few appropriate textbooks available that should be changed urgently. The first supplementary nationality school was established in 2004. The textbooks used previously and often still in supplementary ethnic education generally come from the home country of the particular nationality. Five years ago, there was an opportunity to create their own ethnic textbooks in TÁMOP competition. At that time, the 12 years and 4 themes of the relatively newly established complementary ethnic schools: ethnic language, literature, history and geography, we could write a total of 8 textbooks, which is obviously [[His mic's falling off.]] I'm sorry, it's not a good thing, but as a temporary solution, it was better than nothing. Unfortunately, in the five years since the publication of the first textbooks, the situation has not changed, nor has it been possible to create new textbooks. In view of this, we consider it necessary to provide some guarantee that [[For portable microphones:]] I would like to thank you in practice for using the textbook development application, which is listed in the law on the provision of textbooks for national public education, which is proposed by the current bill to be incorporated into the Public Education Act. 6. Difficulties in interpreting the determination of budgetary support. The Public Education Act 88. §2 of the Act provides for the financing of the public education system and specific support for children covered. Institutions may apply for higher, roughly double specific budgetary support under the title of children receiving minority public education. However, the clear interpretation of the legislation sometimes causes problems. Thus, the legislation could have been interpreted differently by one nationality public education institution and differently by the State Treasury. As a result, no specific level of support was granted for a group of children in the mixed kindergarten in question, either at a basic level or at a national level. In the light of the specific example, it would be necessary to examine whether the wording of the legislation could contribute to the conclusion of the questionable interpretation of the law. If so, please clarify the wording. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for listening. Dziekuje za uwagel. [[14.10]]
u2019-06-21-80	Thank you very much. I also welcome my fellow Members. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2019-06-21-81	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to add so much to what has just been said, without extending it to a very long period, just because the timeframe does not allow me to draw attention to the fact that this bill clearly shows the failure of the government's pedagogical policy. What's this about? On the one hand, the proposal says, of course, that the teachers who could not pass the language exam should actually come. The Congresswoman has already drawn attention to the extent to which this contradicts what they are otherwise doing in language education; we are now saying that the consequence will be that there will be even fewer teachers in teacher training because of this tightening of higher education. On the other hand, on the other hand, the bill also says that we should increase the number of hours of lecturers. In other words, they are clearly unable to ensure the self-preservation of the system, nor are they able to ensure that there are as many teachers who enter and perform these tasks as part of a normal employment relationship. By increasing the number of hours on the clock, they actually increase self-exploiting or exploitation; in many cases it is the case that teachers are working in several places as lecturers, and obviously you can earn a slightly better salary than you do in the normal wage system, but in the long term it is an unsustainable model. Oh, and, of course, there is no shortage of teachers, as Secretary of State Rétvári says every time here in Parliament, but they're practically just not picking up people from the streets who are able to go in. [[Peter Ungár applauds.]]
u2019-06-21-82	Thank you, Congressman. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind checked in for two minutes. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-83	I would like to appeal to the Secretary of State, if possible, not only to respond to what has been said at the end, but also to allow a live debate in Parliament. Thank you.
u2019-06-21-84	Thank you, Congresswoman. We now return to the order of the ordinary speakers. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai.
u2019-06-21-85	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Regarding the number of private learners: according to the statistics for 2014, the number of private learners is around 7-8 thousand, and since then it is certain that this has expanded, and we can now talk about about about 9 thousand private learners, according to statistics, there are 1,200 children with special educational needs. It is an equally important part of education, and this group, as many types of disability, needs so many needs and professional assistance, so the palette is very wide. There are children who would be fit for integration or for integrated or inclusive education, but there are those who are not allowed to do so by the school charter. Or the easiest way to do this is by quoting, and I'd rather have these children with disabilities in their home-school status. There are situations where the child is not fit to participate in integrated or inclusive education, and they have a much better home-school relationship. Such is a part of autistic children or children with various degrees of mental impairment. There are cases where the school would be inclusive, but there are no personal or material conditions available, and therefore continue to be a private student. Several people have mentioned individual examples, so allow me to bring up one or two. I myself raise four children with hearing impairments with my wife, and when we were looking for a school for our biggest daughter, we were obviously looking for a school where the founding document contained the idea of receiving, raising, educating, teaching children with hearing disabilities. We went through several schools, some that were not pleasant, some that would have picked up the school-age child, but the kindergarten and school weren't side by side, just because they had difficulty communicating, and some where the ability to communicate wasn't at that level. When we found a school that, according to its charter, was obliged to receive a child with a hearing impairment, they accepted all my children without question. Autistic boy in that kindergarten class was a very serious case, and a few years later it turned out that this child was taking such a powerful drug that even affected his personality, completely recovered from the withdrawal of the drugs, and was still ripping through the school. So what I'm trying to say is that not all is legislation; a lot depends on the director, the teaching board, their attitude and the expert committee's opinion. They mentioned the organizations. I would like to say that, of course, this amending package raises a number of questions about interest protection organisations for children and persons with disabilities, and I thank the State Secretary for Social Affairs, Attila Philip, for having called the National Disability Council on time. Unfortunately, the representative of MEOSZ did not attend or were unable to attend, but all the other organisations were there, were present, the State Secretary for Education was present and the questions raised were discussed. We are talking about changing the concept of private learner, and no one has seen such a big problem in this, because the system continues to function in the same way, perhaps even more expressing the student's status, belonging to the school than the use of the concept of private learner. So we quickly clarified that organisations representing children with special educational needs do not see the problem in the name after all. The question of expert services working with pedagogical services, their cooperation, was a very important issue. It has also been clarified that this system will not change, so the procedure remains the same, and the new authority should take into account the expert committee's opinion. It is also very important that a person who has previously been granted the right to a special education requirement will not be asked for this in the new procedure, only in the new cases, and in the case of a new application, they may request an expert examination. Therefore, the competence of the expert committee is maintained, the range of right holders is maintained against the authority, so the expertise of the expert committees should continue to be taken into account. Finally, it is very important to say, and I would also like to stress that one of the few strong requests and proposals made by the organisations is when the procedural rules are drawn up to involve them in organisations of interest and in this work, especially in the case of children with special educational needs. The other is indeed a very important issue or problem with professional training. Indeed, more and more professionals are needed, and advocacy organisations have asked us to do everything possible to train as many highly qualified professionals as possible for education. To sum up, this regulation, this amending package, does not have much impact on children with special educational needs, remains the competence of the expert committee, remains the competence, the rules of procedure so far. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2019-06-21-86	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. [[14.20]]
u2019-06-21-87	Thank you for the floor. Before I get to what I've written, I'd like to share with you that I've been a little surprised to hear the debate; although, I hope, there hasn't been a substantive debate so far, I hope there will be. First, Minister of State said that he started the whole thing in his expo without being so special and probably not going to trigger much interest. Probably not working well by colleagues who put together a press review, because otherwise, only a press review alone would have made it possible to see that this amendment of the law, even if it did not call hundreds of thousands of people on the street, would have resulted in a slight uproar within the profession. On the other hand, I was also amazed at the fact that Mr Rector, I am sorry, Mr Secretary of State, said that he had given you the truth, obviously to his predecessors, because you were not the State Secretary at the time of the Constitutional Court. I would be a bit surprised at that because it is a simplistic or simplified interpretation, and then I put it mildly, the decision of the Constitutional Court. Because there is no doubt that the Constitutional Court has said that it is the Taigetos Act in itself, who is sitting in the courtroom, I suppose everyone knows that an exemption or immunity is denied by the legislator, not unconstitutional. However, the Constitutional Court also added that the procedure for this withdrawal and the failure to ensure that they could provide a solution to the specific situation of children is not okay. That is why the deadline of 30 June was set, which has been mentioned here by several people, that this amendment is obviously here because the Constitutional Court said that they would be willing to settle this until 30 June. Let's just say the Constitutional Court didn't say that to all the rest, but that's another question. So, that's because the Constitutional Court has given you the truth, it's not entirely true. In a sense, that's what the Constitutional Court said, and in a sense it's designed tasks, because it said they did it wrong, and the law is not good. This is the exact interpretation of the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thirdly, I was amazed at what László Pósán said. I have some knowledge of the Public Education Act, and I know this amendment. László Pósán said that this is only such an administrative simplification in the election of the director, how who and how can comment. For example, the Public Education Act basically makes the 70th out of it. § 2 (2) (j) that the board of directors shall give an opinion on the election of directors. I'll sign that if this was the only one out, László Pósán would be right, only the 68th. § (1) also applies. There's a half sentence out there. This half sentence is a choice of director to appoint the director by asking the organisations, communities, persons and the maintenance opinion of this Act. So it's out of the law that the organisations, communities, people, that are covered by the law are giving a maintenance opinion. It's paing! So he's out of the law, and there's no one left to comment on. Neither the school board, nor the school board, nor the parents' community, nor the other laws currently in force, I cannot find anything that taxatically lists him to give an opinion in the election of the director. So in this sense, this is not an administrative amendment. Now, let's get back to the amendment of the law, because it is indeed a very complex package of proposals, which amends many, many, many laws. There are also some positives in this, including from some of the government's sides, from the opposition side, but I'll tell you a few of them, one or two of them, which hasn't been said yet, and I think it's a positive one. For example, the inclusion of the use of natural resources from 2021 will be measured by means of means. As a geographer, I am very pleased about this, but in general, as we often talk about the need to improve natural science training, it is a very important feedback in public education, how exactly the knowledge of natural science is, and how the situation of natural science in general is. It has already been mentioned here that the salaries of directors, heads of institutions and additional wages can be used to carry out certain additional tasks. It's okay in itself, because we know very well that the wages of teachers are quite low. I wouldn't go into this right now, because it would take a long way to keep this debate going, to look at the specific figures on how the pay of teachers is low compared to the average salary in the national economy. But with that in mind, they could have included additional tasks linked to the replacement, or, in fact, with this momentum, the salary base could have been tied back to the minimum wage, and then the situation would have been much better. So here I have a sense of absence, not in itself, that there are a few points where payments are involved. In a sense, it can be seen as positive, as they react to the lack of teachers, the lack of teachers. It is not for the first time that we always get it, especially from Bence Rétvári, that, of course, there is no shortage of teachers in Hungary, that otherwise the law is constantly being groomed so that the existing teacher shortage can be dealt with in some way. In the past, there has been a law amendment that has passed through the House that, in the case of certain subjects, there is no need to have a teacher's degree in teaching, or a medical educator's degree has been removed from many places as an obligation; let us say, we did not agree with that, but this is another question. For example, a solution has now been included that is actually acceptable and can be considered as a solution in the short term. This solution, which has already been mentioned here, my fellow Members, is that, in the case of a teacher who has already done everything at the university, only his language exam is not available, so that his diploma can be awarded, he can start teaching. Obviously, he'll have to take the language exam. This could be seen as a positive. Although this obviously doesn't solve the problem in the long run, the problem is that there are a lot more people leaving the field than there are in the system. Especially because the profession is getting old. We know very well that for the next 10-15 years there will be so many teachers, so the teacher who is now in the system will retire, which I am sure Hungarian higher education will not be able to replace. So these numbers don't really match, even if every senior teacher goes to teach automatically, and we know that that's not the case, because a very significant part of the teacher's class doesn't start working as a teacher. We'll be back here again for payments. Why don't you go over there? Ad 1: Because with a starting teacher's salary, you can earn twice as much and less work in McDonald's sban. The only reason I can say this is because I taught and worked in a fast food restaurant, and believe me, education is a more stressful task. On the other hand, it is relatively difficult to tell a 20 - year - old to go into such a centralised, centralised system based on instructions and enjoy teaching. By the way, the problem is that this current package of laws adds more to the fact that we are now practically going back to the situation in 1978, when they want to tell everything from the center. There was a long discussion of textbook provision, and the rest, so it was possible, at least so far, to sort of solve it, that if the teacher thought so, and the parents agreed with it, then they used a textbook matching his pedagogical vision. They bought it, they used it. In the future, it is very likely that, largely thanks to this amendment, this option will go away and they will be forced to use the central textbook. Especially in a way that, in some sense, we might even say that they threaten the school principal a little, who allows the teacher to do this because it usually only works where the director tells you to do it as you like, because they put in such a pass that, with the exception of kindergarten, in an educational institution maintained by a public body or a higher education institution, there will be training, education or information activities that, through serious violations of public education legislation, can result in a violation of the rights of the child, learner and thus continue, the Director being fired. [[14.30]] I'd be very interested to know what educational or educational activities are. So this applies to how they say in our country's Movement? The gay propaganda or I don't know what. Is that what this is supposed to be, or is it about Mr. Soros, or is it about migrants? [[Gergely Harvestó: Freedom, equality, brotherhood!]] So, what is the educational or information activity that will make it possible to fire a director at any time? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes, that's how it is.]] So, I'm really interested in how this is going to happen, because I don't think it's okay in this form. That's why college students often don't go to educators, because they tell them exactly what to teach, what to say in which class, what to project from which side, plus, even if they happen to have ambition and institutional leadership, they face such a law, which says, "Yeah, if his appointing officer gets up on the left, he can practically be fired immediately. Of course he'd rather go to work in the private sector, even though he'd have a commitment. Returning to the lack of teachers, it can also be accepted in itself, and as such a substitute solution, I might do the same thing, and it is quite likely that the weekly number of clockworkers will be raised from 10 to 14 hours, which is not an ideal solution in the long run. Of course, we know that, but it must be good for such a transitional period, we just want to slowly see what the final solution is. How are they going to deal with a shortage of teachers, and in the future, it will be even greater if the numbers in higher education are the same? And then a lot of people here have been talking about homeschool status. In parentheses: I can give you specific numbers, because we asked for the status of private students by requesting data in the public interest a month ago, because of course we heard that there is a problem and something is going on. We asked him, we talked to some people. Last year, he was eight thousand, three hundred, all private students. I don't remember the full, exact number, but there were eight thousand, three hundred, all children in public education. And as it was said here, it's a really very complex group. Some people are actually trying to get them out of school with the help of some teachers, because it would, in a way, only interfere with education; this is a relatively common argument in public education these days that certain children are being kicked out, too. There's that group that Gergely Tapolczai mentioned. There are those kids who fall for some kind of trick. There are some institutions that do tricks with home-school status. Let's just say this is something that the office usually listens to, and then either you punish them or you shut them down, which has been the case. And, of course, there is a part of these children, probably the largest of these groups, who are private students because the parent believes that he can do better than Hungarian public education. But it doesn't matter which group we're looking at, we're talking about 8300 kids. This is a minimum part of the children in public education. It really isn't a percentage, it's a fraction to quote the movie "Going Up to the Minister," in which Antal Páger is driven without entering the cooperative, and they say that it doesn't matter, it's 100% of the cooperative anyway, because it's not a percentage, it's just a fraction. In fact, as a result of this, a home-school relationship that has been developed, developed and legally limited, may not have to be thrown out. Here and there you can control it a little bit better, here and there you can act a little harder against the tricks, but therefore throwing it all away is certainly not worth it, especially because it is obviously not a determining part of society, but a part of you who knows that he can give the child better than the Hungarian public education. All I can ask is for you to think about some things about this amendment of the law, especially regarding the opinion of the director's election and the maintenance of private learning status. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-21-88	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár.
u2019-06-21-89	Thank you very much. I would respond to Congressman Tapolczai. One about the expert committee you mentioned. So the expert committee and mentioned the autism-specific thing in most places can't stand up, there's no qualified expert, and basically the system of expert committees doesn't function properly at all. So as if... saying this as a solution to this question and this law in the specific part of SNI students, I don't think it's a real solution. In addition, there is also a very capital-centred matter on the expert committee, so in the countryside, a significant part of these are actually unavailable. By the way, I appreciate the congressman's effort to try to neutralize it, that it doesn't make it any worse. So when Fidesz's argument to justify a law has been brought to it that it will not be so much worse, then we know that it will probably be much worse, because this communication is the maximum of this sinus curve. All I'd be happy to offer to the EMMI is that I have the phone number of Ágnes Kovács, president of MEOSZ, I'll give it to you anytime. I'm assuming, and in the case of the... MEOSZ speeches in the care fee, I felt that you guys had his phone number more often and talked to the President. But the President also writes that the parliamentary debate on the amendment of the law should be postponed, and that the members of the National Disability Council should be involved in the drafting of the detailed rules of the individual working order, and that this has not happened before. So someone's delirious here. MEOSZ claims that there has not been sufficient consultation with the professional organisations, you claim that there was, that only MEOSZ could not really have sent someone to that date, or that it is possible that they were merely seeking to consult with those organisations who knew that they would not be critical. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-21-90	Thank you, Congressman. We return to the normal time frame comments, and allow me to give the word to Gergely Tapolczai, because right now he has logged in for two minutes. You have the floor, Congressman Gergely Tapolczai.
u2019-06-21-91	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Ungár. There's no way they would've invited only organizations who weren't big critics or critics. All the organizations have been invited. This trial took place yesterday. I was present myself, so I can only confirm the allegations and confirm who was involved and who was not involved. There's no way the invitation was made on a selective basis. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-21-92	Thank you, Congressman. Now it's time for the regular comment. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anett.
u2019-06-21-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I dare say that the legislative amendment proposal before us is, in every sense, an outrage. I would like to highlight three points because there has been a lot of talk here on a strictly professional basis and on a principled basis, opposition fellow Members. Abolishing home-school status, changing the way in which school principals are elected, and creating the privilege of established churches on the textbook market are simply unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would like to ask you what your plan is to do with all this that you are doing in the education system. 'Cause if it's that XXI. Raise new generations unable to prepare for the challenges of the century, so they must be on the right path. If you want to create an education system in which our country's competitiveness will be ensured in the future and in which children learn not only the ability to cram, but also the ability to think, critical thinking and the ability to become responsible citizens, then perhaps a parliamentary term is not enough to correct your education system. I think this is a drama in itself, but given the details of the legislative amendment proposal before us, what you are creating within the educational system is basically dictatorships of the last century. [[14.40]] The fact that in the new way of choosing school directors the right of opinion of school citizens is already being rejected means to me, Mr Secretary of State, that you do not give any more appearances. We have already seen that many schools have been driven to the head by positionaries who have been opposed by complete school citizenship, and you have gone on this journey simply uncaringly. We already knew that, but that they dare to legislate that neither parents, teachers, nor students are allowed to interfere, nor can they comment on the person of the future school principal, I think that this does not fit into the education system of an EU Member State. It must be understood that the school belongs to the school citizens, to those who want to study there, to those who want to teach there, to those who have their children written there, and to those who would like to lead these institutions as managers, otherwise I note that in consultation with the local government leaders. In the violently centralised education system, this is completely unnecessary at the moment, but we have been saying the importance of decentralisation for a very long time. However, this is not the subject of this legislative proposal, but I think it is important to talk about it. They're calling for an end to the status of homeschooler. I understand that you do not see your own mistakes, and I understand that the very large number of applications for private learning status in the past period have started because many people wanted to save their children from your education system, but, unlike the social and economic elite, they have not been able to create the financial situation in which they can otherwise have children enrolled in foundational and private schools. So homeschool status is basically a protest of the middle class against the way you set up this school system. In the case of another type of private learner, who, on the other hand, starts at the bottom of society, unfortunately, in many cases, which have already been discussed, opposition colleagues are explicitly under institutional pressure to remove. I think it is very right for the government to take action against this, but it is not a good tool to abolish the status of homeschooler. If they see the system as an opportunity for abuse, they should be screened, a legislative modification proposal should be made to help these disadvantaged children, not one in which the current assistance mechanisms will be removed from them. In most of the finals, we have to thank these children for becoming private learners by the fact that pedagogical services have far too few staff, and therefore, in the rural area, there are very few schools where children from disadvantaged families are given some kind of help that they can already get along with their peers, or with some help they can get qualifications and further education, even if they stay within the school system. Dear Secretary of State, You have not sought to repair the damage that you have caused in the last two government cycles, and you are now explicitly deepening them. What you have done with the textbook market, my honourable pro-government colleagues, and I am really sorry that Miklós Kásler, who is theoretically the author of this legislative amendment proposal, has not come to represent the government in this debate, and we do not see Zsolt Semjén, who has submitted this legislative proposal; I do not know to what we owe this. In any case, it is very important and I am truly sorry that it is the Secretary of State who is sitting through this debate, you, who, by the way, has recently arrived in this government and has not been involved in the shameful transformation work of the previous period. But it has to be said that nationalisation of the textbook market, the right to take away from more textbook writing groups, even in private editions, to develop textbooks and publish textbooks at a time when the entire education system seems to object to such a small selection on the textbook market at the moment, and now a budget of 6.5 billion is being allocated to the established churches in order to publish textbooks, I think it is a disgrace. So they are re-establishing privileged groups that can do anything that no rules otherwise apply, they do not need to have textbook writing or textbook development experience, but those who have decades of experience have long since lost their right to operate on this market. I think, fellow Members and honourable Secretary of State, that if you really want to do something so that we can finally live in a European Hungary, where future generations can respond well to the 21st century. To the challenges of the century, we need to liberalise the textbook market, to pay attention to where the local community that owns the school, what it wants, would like to lead its school, not to plant someone on them, who will break their will, and will run the school the way you like it, or the current district supervision. This is not a good school system. We know that if the principle of subsidiarity does not apply in the education system, we will certainly argue with the present studentship that it can actually improve. And we have not yet talked about how their curricula are developing and how the roles of skills development subjects are developing, as this is not the subject of this legislative amendment proposal. I understand or understand that your goal is to ensure that, apart from the children of Fidesz's friends and business partners, no one has access to quality education, and we know that several government members have effectively saved their children from the current state education system. You should at least make sure that the middle class, who doesn't have enough money for this, can choose homeschool status, because in this case, the educational system doesn't cause our children as much damage as we do in a continuing manner, including professionals, teachers, parents. Let me quote the head of the Foundation and Private Schools Association, who says that school is good even if it doesn't make it worse. Dear Secretary of State, In today's Hungarian school, there are six-year-olds with shiny eyes, who have recently gone to kindergarten, and by December they no longer like school in a very large proportion, I think it is the biggest certificate that we can issue from the current education system. How can we ask these children to keep the value of lifelong learning to themselves when they make them hate school and study in six months? Please also consider this when submitting legislative amendments such as the current one. Thank you for listening.
u2019-06-21-94	Thank you, Congresswoman. A two-minute comment is possible. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár.
u2019-06-21-95	Thank you very much. I do not want to put this very long, but it is because of Mr Tapol-czai's words that yesterday was the meeting. Now, if you had still been critical, how much in one day could you have put that in the law in any way? I think we have an answer to what my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, suggested why the debate on the law was postponed at the time. In order to allow for a 24-hour long social consultation with some of the organisations representing people with disabilities. I think maybe a law of this magnitude deserved more than 24 hours. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-21-96	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the announced speeches. There is now room for further speeches. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2019-06-21-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The school's on break, and the kids are gonna be on vacation, and they're not gonna pull out a textbook until September 1st. Parents are finally over the nine-month fight they have to fight with the kids to keep the kid from getting out of school. As on Friday afternoon, I hope that you all go to vacation places and not even accidentally watch Parliament broadcast, but because of this you do not know what is going on between Parliament's walls about their future lives. [[14.50]] I must point out that I am convinced that this bill does not fit in any way with the souls of the Fidesz Members and members of the Government in the Chamber. I am convinced that none of you are in favour of this bill because I know them so well that their responsibility for the future generation is much, much more and much better than this proposal shows. I tell you frankly, I am extremely sorry that the Secretary of State must represent this legislative amendment package, given that your professional advancement is quite well-known to the society of the country, at least to the intellectuals, and that neither your work nor your advancement is of the same quality. And it is probably also a coincidence that neither Zsolt Semjén nor Minister Kásler are here what many of my opposition fellow Members have missed because they could not defend this bill. When I read the general justification, which, if I may, I read; so when someone reads this, they start to crack out in hurrahoptimism, what a good suggestion it will be, because it says here that the basic guarantee of our country's competitiveness is public education for young people who are constantly able to meet changing social, economic and technical conditions, which is a prerequisite for high-quality pedagogical work. This can be ensured by increasing the material and social prestige of the teacher's profession, making the teacher's career attractive, and promoting the continuous professional development of teachers. When I read this, I thought of two things. One, he's sure to go back to 20 hours. No? This was my first thought, because it takes 20 hours for the professional development of teachers to be undisturbed and the professional skills of teachers teaching children to be adequate. I'll tell you why: because 20 hours of teaching takes at least 20 hours of preparation. That's how 40 hours work. Then I thought that the idea of competitiveness would include, for example, raising me from the age of 16 to the optimal 20 years, raising the age limit for compulsory schooling, because for a competitive society, a competitive future generation, it would require at least that no 7.2 percent of children fall from the school bench, which has taken place every year since this outrageous law came into force. So I thought, uh, there's something good going on here. Then I also thought that if, in the general explanation, there were writing about the professional development and development of teachers, then there would be a new comfort and progressive rules that would serve this. I have read through the law, and the small problem is that the general explanation does not comply with any sentence of the law, because this law certainly does not speak of teachers; however, it speaks of many disadvantaged children and future children with all kinds of harsh, terrorist-type new rules, so it is about the terror of the future generation, but there is no progressive provision for teachers in this law. I do not understand, by the way, what those who write these adorable paragraphs for these proposals think. That no one will read the law after that? Or is this for the press? They read the general explanation, and they say that a law has entered Parliament because it serves what purpose? There is only one small problem: the text of the law does not serve this purpose. But let's get into the details. Unacceptable, which is 5. It's in section 5. I'm a lawyer. There is no such general statement that my fellow Member, Szabolcs Szabó, has read. Who will determine which chapter or theme of the spirit of the Fundamental Law is the subject of what is being offended, say, by a director? Who's going to decide if what someone there is experiencing, say, a district leader, really doesn't meet his personal taste or doesn't meet the general social requirement? There's something I want to tell you. I went to high school in Kaposvár between 1980 and 84. It was a socialist system, a dictatorship. I will tell you that my history teacher started all history classes with a few of my left-wing fellow Members not going to like it by coming into the class, jumping up to the top of the table, and that meant that we had chanted all the unrelented poems and songs at the beginning of the history lesson, and sang them. That's what all history classes started with. It was necessary, because 90 percent of people in that society didn't even know that Hungarian people live across the border and didn't even know that Trianon was there. What I'm trying to say is that every history lesson my history teacher did to the constitutional system at that time was against him. Every history lesson. Now, when we voted for the year of national cohesion by 2020, what kind of history teacher could be, for example, contrary to the spirit of the current Fundamental Law, and then even a district leader could initiate the removal of the director? Isn't history relative? But I'll tell you something else. In 90-91 Hungary's current Prime Minister said that he dared to say that any law under the Socialist regime would be illegal. That's what our prime minister said today. Then what did you say in the Fundamental Law that came into force in 2012? That after March 19, 44, everything was illegal, that was dictatorship, which was then passed there, was not constitutional in any way, so basically the opposite. If I'm just starting out from his change of personality, then tell me how any head or teacher of any institution of the Fundamental Law will be able to meet today's spirit if the values change this way! Is that a rule that knows what it's for? It's for the ultimate scare. Teachers, especially history and Hungarian teachers, will be paralyzed because they teach subjects with a gift or a mentality in which they can hit the current system with even one sentence, and otherwise Hungarian teachers are already quite self-censored, they are practically tired because of the overloaded hours, they do not have time to prepare, they do not have time to think. You know what's gonna happen? A terrible self-control, a terrible holding back from raising children into thinking children, because that's what we expect them to do. We raise our children to be thinking children at home, but they spend so much time at school that the school can simply destroy the parenting of a family of good spirits. What's next? It will be, please, that party people, party discipline, pro-state adjustment, and no one wants that 30 years after the change of regime. I'm a lawyer. I spent 30 years in the courtroom. A man who asks whether three or four years old to go to a child's kindergarten will lead him into the court system will simply kill the future generation. My colleague Gergely Arató is right in that, if you do not allow it, you will get an appeal. But no one really believes that such a question, that a child should go to kindergarten when he is three years old or four years old, and that there may not be a decision for the benefit of the parent or the child, then we will bring him to court. Well, don't tell me that in this huge institutional system, you can't bring three independent experts into committee, and they're gonna decide to let that child go to kindergarten, not three, but four years old. Well, wait a minute. It's the fate of a child! His parents haven't even divorced yet, there was no serious legal problem in the family, but let's just say, I'd like to send him in at four, because the development of the child, his relationship with the parent, doesn't allow him to divorce the parent, and then it's decided by a judge, who, by the way, doesn't know what the priorities of raising the child are. I'm glad that we're trying to get the kids into a community as soon as possible, but who has ever seen three children with completely different personalities born into at least three independent families or even the same family, he knows that one can be separated at the age of one and a half, because he has such a talent that he can adapt in seconds, for example, my child was like this, and the other child can't divorce the parent even at the age of five, and even at the age of five, the kindergarten teachers comfort the child for half an hour because he's gone. Just think about how in the development of children, in their relative development, there are such huge differences that they are wonderful! Do you know when kids start developing in the same rhythm? Do you know when that starts? I'll tell you. At 16 years of age. The age of 16 is where you can say relatively that you are trying, not the children themselves, but nature; it begins with the relatively same mental, emotional, emotional intelligence, world vision, alignment and so forth. Before the age of 16, the children's rhyme of development is so different from any aspect, that I would do this, that I would spread the fate of the child, the fate of the kindergartener into the court world! I just can't accept it. I beg anyone who has the right to direct this to another system. Indeed, in the child welfare system, there are three people in a committee, who can identify where they come from, who can decide on this matter, and who will serve everyone's satisfaction. [[15.00]] Here is what one of my fellow Members said: you want to take away even the education of children from parents, teachers. Well, yeah. Let me ask you one thing. There's this chip, and there's all kinds of money that comes in when there's a certain number of kids, right? Every day in this House, it is said from the pro-government benches that children should be born, sometimes in a very arrogant and tasteless style. So they expect to give birth, give birth, even give money for it. What's gonna happen? Well, you guys can't raise those kids anyhow. Well, you can have a baby, but after that. I'll get them into such a disciplined military system that you have no room for manoeuvre! Well, what do you think you're doing? Should we give birth, should we give birth? But you don't think the fate of the child will be decided by you! No. We're gonna get you into these systems. The other is that they confuse equal opportunities with uniforms. Yes, the Fundamental Law provides equal opportunities for all people in a democratic country to have equal opportunities for all. That's equal opportunities. Uniformization is not equal opportunities! I want uniforms, I want equals, I want equals, I want equals, I want equals, I want equality schools. Now, there's only one small problem with that: the nature created by God is completely opposed. 80 percent of people can't be put into the system. Those who succeed in spite of their own nature will be deviant people, whom we do not need very, very much, because they usually end up in prisons, which is very expensive for us. The next thing I want to talk about is who can choose the leader. If it were ever up to me, it would be my principle that the professional community chooses its leader. The professional requirement, what to comply with, I also think must be defined, but who to be can decide who to be the leader of. What do you think a faculty full of colleges, colleges, can't decide who would be the best leader for him? Well, then, I apologize, why are we letting them teach? Is he capable of teaching 400-500 children a year, but not qualified to select his own leader on a board basis? I didn't even understand why, for example, a doctor is sitting in front of me as Secretary of State, why a department couldn't decide who the head of the department would be. Why wouldn't he? You can operate, save lives? But can't a professional community decide who their professional leader is? In the entire state and municipal system, I demand that this spirituality prevail! Well, the non-lingual teacher and the January 1st, 2020! Well, that's...! There's no such thing as a Pharisee on Earth. So the teacher doesn't get a degree because he can't pass the language exam, but he can go in and teach! So the six-year-old child, who is still totally immature for education, can go in teaching, but not even from 1 January 2020 to university, so even the teacher's first step can't be a young person of the next generation if he doesn't have a language exam! Well, that's great. So maybe next month the bill will be if there's too few teachers in the country that the high school student can teach after graduation who didn't get into college? Because you don't have a language exam, that's why you can't get into college. Well, if they can't have a language exam, they can't be teachers. Why don't you guys think about this for a second? I'm sitting across from a professor who's created value in his life. Tell this government you can't make such Pharisee rules. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-06-21-98	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr László Pósán applied for a comment. You have the floor.
u2019-06-21-99	Thank you very much. I asked for the floor because a number of things have been said, and I think it would be appropriate to respond, and two minutes is not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that, in silence with those who spoke before me, it is true that the intrusive proximity of the facts interferes with the large-scale conception. Here there were large-scale concepts and suggestions, without a relatively inaccurate or even completely lacking knowledge of the facts. Allow me to give you some specific examples. One of these issues is how old you are and how kids should go to kindergarten and school. There are a lot of people here who are simply criminalizing this idea. You should take out the lyrics and read them. It is clearly stated in the text that at the parent's request, if a delay is requested, a deferral may be requested. At the request of a parent, with the consent of a kindergarten manager and a protective woman, the child's legitimate interests may be extended, a derogation may be granted. So I don't understand why you have to criminalize it in that sense. There are a number of other examples that can be set, but we really need to draw up the text and insist on talking about facts, not all kinds of stuff from the air. There have been a number of questions that I can't place again. One of them is this particular home-school relationship. You should look at the lyrics right here. Instead of having a home-school relationship, he talks about the authorisation of individual working arrangements and, in particular, mentions the exemption from school attendance, as has been the case so far. The fact is quite simply that we would like to introduce a type of regulation here, which I mentioned at the beginning, so as to eliminate the possibility of giving it along an incredibly different procedural and reasoning logic, depending on schools, but to have some kind of consistency. Speaking of which, I can't ignore what Anett Bősz said, that, with the help of the home-school status that we've had so far, you somehow said so to the middle class as a protest to your children from the school system. Yeah, if that's how you interpret it, of course, that's your right, I just want to say that in the school year 18-19, statistics show that 8046 out of 1 million 140,000 students were home-schooled, that's 0.7 percent. Obviously, I'm not saying that's not enough, but to say that middle class en bloc is doing such a big extraction, I think that's an interesting interpretation of numbers. But of course, everyone's heart has the right to interpret the different numbers as he wishes, but it does not necessarily have to be said as an unquestioned truth. Andrea Varga-Damm said that there is no one progressive measure for educators. I don't know what you mean by progressive, but let's not keep quiet about the fact that, for example, this law changes the law of public education 62. § 6 of the Act, which includes a reduction in the number of hours if you look at it. The teachers' assistants also get a teacher's ID, which hasn't been before, and a few of these things could still be raked together, but you just have to read the law. It came up as a problem, as a matter of classification, text evaluation. Obviously, this is a matter of serious pedagogical, let us say, views, beliefs and viewpoints, as I think Mr Arató rightly said, this is a long-standing issue not only in the policy area but also at the level of the various professional organisations and experts. There's only one thing I'd like to raise about that. There is a kind of protocol in schools that carry out a textual evaluation of how and how the evaluation for children in the event of a school change should be transposed into the classification category, so that the school change can take place in this sense. How problematic or unproblematic this is right now, I do not wish to agree to this, because there are plenty of examples here as well, both pro and versus. But if there is a procedure and protocol for this right now, I'm just asking why this is a problem, why would it be problematic to apply it not once in the event of a school change, but even in an alternative way, in addition to text evaluation, there is one. Why would that be from the devil? Why should we assume that it's the parents, or I don't know who everyone will feel terribly bad because they can get the same text review they've been given? I don't see a world-shaking problem in this, which I don't even know how to hold a sword against each other. [[15.10]] About the textbook. A lot of people here are trying to tell you that everyone in the textbook market is out of control, and there's practically an equal textbook, and there's nothing else. Ladies and gentlemen, Undoubtedly, there is a free textbook for all public education now, projected for every year. It is also undoubtedly true that this has a specific textbook part for each subject. But to say that it couldn't be another textbook, that's not true, because there are other textbooks in Hungary. Whoever can write a textbook right now, it's also true that they should, of course, be accredited. And it's up to schools in their pedagogical program what textbooks they want to use, what textbooks they want to teach. You have to ask the parents, and if the parent says he's happy to pay for the textbook I don't know which textbook, then obviously the school can introduce it. There is a framework that needs to be kept in mind, which we call the National Basic Lesson Plan and the related master's plans. So this is obviously not true in this regard. I have to say that everyone who comes out of this over and over again is deliberately slipping, or if I'm even worse-conceived, then I say that they appear specifically as the agent of previous private textbook publishers in this regard. The topic of interns was that they could teach without a language exam. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this applies only to internship and exclusively. The law in force says that a teacher candidate is only a candidate who, as an intern, can't hold his place and can't pass the teaching qualification by the end of the internship period, so he can't get into grade I, so he can't continue his work there. So that's what it's all about, not someone else. And the intern's watch number isn't the same as the ped. Hours of teachers starting with I. So they're asking me not to smack these categories together because we're talking about different things, not that now the language and the diploma and all these other interlinkages are how and how they're going. If you are an intern, if you have a degree, you can speak a language, but you can't do it, you won't be a teacher, so you can get a teacher's qualification, just like you did the other way around. So we should keep that in mind. The question of the director's election has come up several times. The current legislation states that you should ask the faculty and ask the employee community of the school in question en bloc. The staff community is as much part of the faculty as we ask them separately. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: And the students?]] A separate consultation of the faculty and a separate consultation of the staff community, this is a double procedure in the current situation. It's about why we have to do this twice. It's enough to do it once. It's the same circle, plus pedagogical assistants, and so on. So I don't really understand what the problem is. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'll explain.]] I would also like to indicate in relation to the private learning issue... [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Congressman, I've listened to you. Please listen to me. [[Bence of Turda: Parents, students...]] But we're not having a conversation right now. So, speaking of homeschool status, Congresswoman Kunhalmi also said that many others are that this is a restriction on the free choice of schools. I don't understand. Why would it limit the choice of free school, since it is precisely about allowing the individual working order that is currently being changed by the law, that the child is essentially fulfilling his obligation to attend school here, besides going to school. I don't really understand how this relates to the issue of free schooling, because that doesn't make much sense. I understand, of course, that my fellow Members always like to bring up political attacks on the government and the ruling parties, but in the case of a specialized law, it would be fitting to look at the texts with more precision, to see exactly what it refers to, and to speak with each other accordingly, rather than to use such bombistic expressions that the draft law is full of nuclear bombs, as Bernadett Szél puts it, and so on. It may, of course, be a question of vehemence as to who uses the language, but it does not lead to dialogue and not forwarding things, that is for sure. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-21-100	Thank you, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató first.
u2019-06-21-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congressman Pósan immediately took over the role of Secretary of State and said a closing word. But this is a great opportunity for us, because at least we can answer it. For example, we can tell Congressman Pósán that you like to be wrong about the accreditation of textbooks, because your ministry, although there is legal opportunity for this, and even in the new law, does not in practice allow the accreditation of these books. And of course, it's a very fair competition in a market where they say that there's a public textbook for free, or you can pay to use it better, and otherwise, I don't want you to use it officially. This is the practice, by the way, because parents pay rather than teach their children from these textbooks. Ordering public textbooks is constantly decreasing because they use unofficial, unauthorized textbooks at their own expense rather than using the textbooks you give free but unfortunately useless. But that's not the point, it's obviously absurd. On the other issue: Mr Pósán forgot to mention that the voting rights of the faculty are not the only ones being lost. If I'm not mistaken, you didn't work in public education, you know higher education better, in public education the operation of a faculty and the functioning of employee values are different, other aspects arise, it works differently, there are other people there. How much more depends on the composition of the school, for example, this is different in a vocational school, where there are very often relatively many people who provide the professional background. But more importantly, what happened to everyone else? You have heard the voice of a spokeswoman, who said how nationalities are affected by this change. What about the parental representative? What about the student representatives? You gotta be kidding me, Congressman. As a matter of fact, if you're looking for a free textbook choice, it's part of the textbook lobby: then I'm part of the bread and milk lobby, because I want all the kids to eat. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-21-102	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó in two minutes.
u2019-06-21-103	Thank you very much. Then let's get back to the legislation in force. This says, I will say it again, five times, that in the context of the election of director, the director will be appointed by requesting the opinion of the organisations, communities, persons and the maintenance of the law. That's what's coming out with this amendment. The law is not a faculty, it is a faculty. The term "Employment Board" does not appear, you can search for it. There's a school board, a school board, parents' community of parents, none of them have a taxatism that they have the right to comment. So if we're talking about who knows the law better, then we can stop, but believe me, from what we've done so far, it looks like I know it better. So let's exactly quote it then, and specifically, paragraph, paragraph, let's discuss where it is you're talking about. And the other thing is, to say that a teacher has ordered a textbook like he would have wanted in recent years, how should I put it delicately? It's not true, and now I was really delicious, polite and elegant. Then what letters did the Ministry send out? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right!]] A list of customized textbooks, then, what was that? Or how is it that these state textbooks are so explosively spread, but they're bad? Everyone knows that. Teachers admit that. Then why did it spread if it wasn't coerced into educators? And why should this be feared, avoiding the minimal possibility of publicity, be directed to educators to use any other textbooks? That's because they're told to use it. So make up another argument, I'm willing to accept a lot of things, but the fact that everyone teaches from what they want is not factually true. Thank you very much. [[15.20]]
u2019-06-21-104	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi in two minutes.
u2019-06-21-105	Thank you very much. I can only repeat myself, or my colleagues, who have said that they find cynicism outrageous that, on grounds of excessive administration, parents and children are deprived of their right to say so. I'm sorry, fellow Member, but if there's a school principal who seems to be incompetent, he's had multiple atrocities with children, parents, but let's say he's a good party soldier, you'll appoint him? I'm sorry, this is just outrageous. The other thing you were able to tell me was that homeschool status is not being abolished. It's just that they're creating an office and they're being taken away from the parent, the head of the institution and the school... looking at them as complete idiots to decide how and in what way the state's obligation to do. Yes, this office will have the opportunity to see that the practice that has developed in recent years because of the school that you have demented, that study groups have been created by middle-class parents, not just by the rich, but by the way, this has now gone down to 8-9 thousand, and by some it is already worth 10,000 of those children... It's a process. You want to take this back, or why did you do it anyway? Thank you.
u2019-06-21-106	Thank you, Congresswoman. I would like to say that two of you have indicated that you would like to speak for two minutes from the independent, but since there is no one to speak for a normal comment, I would not be able to speak for it now, so please press one of you to make a normal comment and so we can continue the discussion. It has happened, so I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2019-06-21-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, I'm happy to read any bill if I have to, once, twice, three times, by the end I'm not happy in general, but the thing is, you're gonna regulate a lot of things by regulation, that's what's in this law. And what will be in that decree? If you'd be so kind as to help us, perhaps the Secretary of State, tell us what is expected in these regulations, we could prepare a little for the future. 'Cause once again, here's the thing, at the beginning of the vacation, they totally perverted a package like this on students, teachers, parents, and then they said it was a bagatell, and then the regulations would come. Don't school me to read the law. We've read it better than I can say right now, there's three fidesz here, better than you, but there's gonna be a lot of regulation. What do you say to that, my honourable fellow Member? And the other thing is, don't school me about what you don't know, because I'm particularly greasy about that. So not only is there a faculty, there are parents and there are students, and we have clearly explained to you that it will not be seen if you disagree with the appointment of the school principal, because you will not be asked your opinion in such a beautiful Hungarian way. So be nice, don't repeat that everything here is fine and bureaucracy reduction, no, we're not buying that, the law says otherwise. Or put in an amendment, you still have a chance. I will be very happy to say yes to the amendment that gives this right back to teachers, students and parents. Third, I really asked the Secretary of State to intervene in the debate. So it is not a dispute that you will be able to give the communication that the EMMI has issued at the beginning, and then we will have to talk to Congressman Pósan about what he thinks is in the law. I would like to hear the EMMI's position on a number of issues. I don't understand. I didn't give you these different statements that we've received from a lot of organizations in the last week or a week and a half. How can you cross so many interest groups? What do you mean? ! Yeah, I don't get that either. MEOS has issued a very clear statement on what they think. Our fellow Member from Tapolcza says that there was some sort of meeting at the Ministry yesterday. Is that why the debate was postponed from Tuesday to Friday, Mr Secretary of State, so that you might get to know professional opinions? Who was invited to this? Be nice, tell me the invitation round. It is not right that they are virtually correct, these organisations tell you what they think of this situation, and then you make it seem that some of these organisations did not appear in a debate or in a debate. I've seen you invite your own civilians, discuss things with them, and then refer to them as the opinion of an omnipotent civil society, while the others who were really there at the platter and fought for the children, or for any other noble cause, said that their opinion was not even asked. What kind of discussions were there in the Ministry specifically about this? I expect answers, Mr. Secretary of State, and if possible, so that we can respond to it afterwards. Thank you.
u2019-06-21-108	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anett in two minutes.
u2019-06-21-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the thoughts that have been raised. We didn't tell you enough, I think parents, students, teachers and institutional leaders would like to interfere with the management of their own school. It's a perfectly normal need. The school belongs to the school citizens, to the local community, to those who study there, to those who teach there, and to those who want to manage this institution well. You have virtually made this impossible over the last few years. On the subject of textbooklobbis, I would like to say that it is not a textbook lobby at all if we raise our voice for quality in the textbook market and raise our voice in order to give teachers a choice, if possible, to have a choice for parents, because in a well-functioning school it is possible to discuss where to go further, school, where to go further, study. Without freedom, the school can't work. We have heard from you many times, my fellow members of the Government, that teachers, when they lock the doors of the classrooms, do whatever they want, but the problem is that freedom doesn't work with some bellows, if I lock the windows on myself, I will blow in freedom, and I will close the last little window so that freedom doesn't escape. They must be able to ensure the freedom of teaching at a systemic level, the freedom to choose textbooks, the freedom to intervene in the election of the head of the institution, the freedom to dynamically consult with the parents of the students studying there, and indeed with the students studying there. This is what modern school would be about, and by the way, our peers here in Europe, who have advanced over time, have created such a school. It's a tragedy you didn't. Thank you.
u2019-06-21-110	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs in two minutes.
u2019-06-21-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, CHAPTER XXI The most important production factor of the century is human knowledge capable of producing high added value. Apparently, in the pro-government benches, they understood very little of this. You would like me to say that the nation's day laborers would be crippled into government servants, the school principals would be turned into orange commissaries, and the citizens would be subject to obedience. In the world of public education here, in Hungary, I would spread the philosophy and attitude of the up-and-down step, which kills all creativity, it kills all components of this system that could move it forward. Mr Secretary, you have received a lot of questions here during the debate. Even in this form, I ask you to answer these concerns and answer these questions. Once again, we can't sign a blank check without seeing exactly the outcome of this. On the Jobbik's side, we clearly say no to the governors, say no to this whole thing that's come before us. We do have an interest in quality education, in increasing efficiency, efficiency and fairness, which is little that can be observed now, these days, these years, even in the nine years that had a history, but which you have brought together. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-21-112	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr József Bódis, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-21-113	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to start by thanking you very much for the activity in the debate, thank you very much for the small statement of support or comment, and also for the criticisms. [[15.30]] The first question to be answered was why this programme was sent to Friday afternoon. The only reason I'm here is because of me. I was hindered, I got to Budapest late last night, and when Parliament's programme was shown, I asked that if there was one way, then there should be a debate, a general debate when I could be present. So I don't know if that answer is satisfactory or not, but you don't have to look for another reason. There's no tactic behind it, I'm the only reason, and I'm grateful, even though it's not a pleasant situation, how can I put it? there are very emotional criticisms, which are obviously primarily related to the presentation and then the operation of the system. Since a number of general questions have been raised, allow me to start with some general ones. Whatever anyone says, the system of Hungarian public education works. This system of public education, since it was set up in this district system, has not been claimed by a regulated system to be flawless and not repairable and even improved. In this system there are excellent directors, educators and excellent students, who are very well qualified and not found easy in various international competitions. I also know that when we talk about an education system, it defines the framework, and with its regulations, certain directions, but basically the key is the dedicated teacher working with vocation, and they are a very good number for God. I also have to tell you this, of course, you know that I haven't been in this system long, but since then, I have been trying to experience it as much as possible, and I have also gathered a lot of positive experiences, while the negative examples, the outstanding examples are always attracting attention. They often refer to PISA and other surveys, and I think this is extremely important and justified, and also because we are not judged by ourselves, but we are judged by our performance out there, but if we notice the negative, let us also see the positive. How can I say that? a second analysis of that data from frequently based surveys can also provide a pretty good picture. For example, in educational innovation, we were able to get above the OECD average. Let's be proud of him. No, I wasn't, I'm part of the system, I am now a little bit, but basically, the students, the teachers who have been working on it for years, working on it, producing these results. In Hungarian schools and these surveys, the number of IT tools was much lower than in German schools, but the fact that our students can produce and produce significantly better results in mathematics, homework or text understanding is encouraging. Obviously, you can't idealize anything, either, but if there are positive trends, they're worth noticing. I also need to address specific issues. Director's appointments. In this proposal, nothing else is put to mind than the fact that the government does not want to regulate directorial appointments at a legal level, but leaves this to the maintainers, new protocols kidol... [[Gergely Harvesto: He himself is the maintainer!]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I didn't understand what the congressman was saying. [[Gergely Harvesto: The state is the maintainer, so it's not a big...!]] Okay, but there are ecclesiastical institutions, there are private institutions, these institutions have a procedure in relation to the election of director, a protocol must be developed by the state institutions, by the way. There is no intention of not having an opportunity to comment on this, because this has been said on behalf of many people, and this is a very important thing. The government does not want to regulate this by law. Apprenticeship. I think that this is a key issue for a number of reasons. On the one hand, thanks to the efforts of previous years, we can now say that there are 4-5 thousand newly completed teachers in the country each year. Of course, it is not good that not all of them are in education, but I think that this was the case decades ago, for some reason the pedagogical track is attractive to other economic spheres, and the education that teachers possess can also be used in other sectors. Let me give you a specific example. When, as a rector, we were able to lure an IT company to Pécs, most of the employees of that company came out of teaching and philosophy circles, because of their language skills, but this is just an example, obviously not the best example, but this is just what I was thinking. Control of kindergarten entry. At a time when we are talking about our kindergarten system, we should definitely add that today in Hungary there is a kindergarten system that is certain in Europe, say, its top 3 and that is good. How do you fix it? Of course, because we are here to improve everything, such as kindergarten. But when we looked at the fact that, in the three- and four-year-olds, a ten-percent kindergartener disappears, is not in the system, and they did not even ask for an exemption, then the idea came to regulate the number of children in kindergarten and age groups as complete as possible. Of course, no one wants to undermine the rights of parents in this matter, and I am also sure that you will be sensitive to it and we will also want it to work in accordance with the ideas. It's a school-age thing. There is a growing tendency, not to go to school for six-year-olds, but to go to school for all kinds of other reasons at the request of parents, but to add it to the request of professionals. Obviously, it's a good thing in every case where it's justified, but it's not good to be tricked with it, I think. By the way, the office will not be a newly organised office, it will be the Education Office that can consider this matter, obviously on the basis of expert opinions. [[15.40]] Homeschool status. In this case, a maximum change of definition or reinterpretation occurs. No one wants to take away from students the opportunities that this status, private learning status, is today. But obviously, you can read, read, read the press; there is an estimate that says that 50 percent of the students in private learning status are not there. I cannot estimate that this is true or not, however, we want to create a clear situation with this individual working order or with its regulation. We do not want to take away the law from anyone, if they are entitled to private education today for age, family or health reasons, or even for top athletes and other professional reasons, they can have the same work schedule tomorrow. Textbook: an evergreen subject, I see, in Parliament and elsewhere. When I got into the system, I wanted to understand what this process was, why a lot of things happened. There's obviously been a lot of arguments, both pro and versus. Obviously, from the pro side, let me say that we should be glad that from the 2020 school year, textbooks are available free of charge to students in the public education system. Each school can do that by defining other books in its pedagogical program, it will not be free, it is obvious. So you can't be free, because the circle that's in the textbook can be free. Some numbers: the number of official textbooks is close to 3,000, two thousand seven hundred eighty-all exactly. With regard to publishers: 49 percent private publisher, 51 percent public publisher, almost even, so not as tragic as some comments said. Classification: yes, at the moment, if a school or institution wants to carry out text evaluation, it is necessary to ask the Minister for permission, and if he gives it, then, of course, the institution can use it. With this current legislative proposal, you do not have to ask for permission, every institution may exercise the right of text evaluation, who wants to, and obviously there are quite a lot of institutions. However, it is clear that the law also wants to regulate that there should be classification in addition to text evaluation. I'm not a psychologist, but I've lived my whole life among people, just like all of you, of course, but on a relationship that isn't always how to say it? It's a normal conversational relationship. It was extremely important at every moment to be able to create an atmosphere of trust. I do not think that it would be difficult for institutions or teachers who are otherwise used to text evaluation to give a grade. You don't have to mystify either of them, but it's okay to parametric things, because life and us are parametric; I know that I'm not very well now, but it's still true. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true.]] Parents' rights: it would be a big problem if anyone violated their parents' rights. All measures and ideas can be criticized, but complex measures cannot be narrowed down to one aspect. I think it's a good thing that we want more children to be born in this country. It would be a bad thing if we didn't deal with them after birth, because in a few years, they'd be in the system of public education. We must operate the system of public education in such a way that it is safe, transparent and effective. At a time when there is a tremendous amount of data flow and information coming to us today, it is often extremely difficult to find out. We also know that the professional professions that exist today, some of them disappear, and then there are those that we don't even know yet. That's supposed to be prep for school, training. It's not that easy to prepare for the unknown. But still, what better chance is there, more chance for students, college students, students? I think that by creating and operating a situation, a system that helps them to develop their abilities, it helps them to develop their abilities. Perhaps it is no secret here that we are working on an educational strategy that addresses the usual professional aspects with a creative development program, from the youngest to adults. I think that this is what will help us to meet the challenges that children can meet, which we do not know yet. Language exam: yes, well, that's one way of saying that without a language exam, interns can teach. This is not the essence of the matter, but the essence of it is to gain practical experience, to learn or experience the beauty and difficulties of education in practice. And as far as the language exam is concerned, it is not a fresh piece of legislation. It was born in 14 and will be valid for next year's admissions. It is very difficult to make the right decision in a situation where we decide things far away. In 14 years, the 2020 date seemed remote enough for everyone in the Parliament to think that it would be a good decision. The problem is, we didn't reach the level of language skills that was set at the time. Obviously, this needs to be responded, but at the moment, this has not changed. We would be very happy if those actions and programs were used by those involved to help them with their language exams. Well, obviously, we also need to think about the future situation in the right way, as to what can be done to help this case. In any case, in this presentation, the story is about an internship, which is good for schools and good for those involved. We are confident that it will give us a new impetus for more people to take language exams. It was a question of what level of negotiations took place. I must tell you that the proposal was negotiated by Deputy State Secretary Zoltán Maruzsa, precisely because I was prevented, so I could not be present. [[15.50]] This is a special situation, but in most places the discussion ended with consensus, they understood what the intention was and there is no underlying intention, and I hope that in the remaining time everything will be clarified, perhaps even by means of amendments, which resolves all important issues in a reassuring manner. By the way, I know that there has been a consultation with the Council of Nationalities, and it has also concluded with consensus on all important issues. I hope that, even if I hadn't responded to all of everyone's sentences, I could answer all the important questions which, if not acceptable, could at least be interpreted. I may have even thought of a specific one in my notes, but it occurred to me that I think, for example, that there was a criticism of the English language books. I don't remember the exact number, but there's a language book over 200. It may not be enough, it may not be the most progressive textbooks, so I don't even want to qualify it, but it's a significant number, so there's a choice. In the case of German between 70 and 80; yes, in the case of the French language book, we really need to take action. And I am also pleased to report that our appropriate experts are working to change this, so in the case of the French language book, the possibility of what is currently on the textbook list is indeed very limited. Many times in my life, I thought that the real sharp situation was saving someone's life and making very good decisions there. This situation is not necessarily about saving lives, but it is about taking a tremendous responsibility for any question that decides the fate of the main public education actors, such as teachers, school principals and students. What I can promise you is that in any case that is important and determines the lives of the main characters, I will always be responsible for the questions and for you. With these thoughts, I would like to thank you once again for everyone's activity, thank you for the criticisms that, I think, serve our upbuilding, and thank you for the supporting contributions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-21-114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of today's agenda. In the end, no one came forward to speak after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament will take place on 24 June 2019. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed.
