u2019-12-09-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 17th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The pre-meeting speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, DK.
u2019-12-09-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Members, To begin with, let me read to you, MPs of the Government, something:. By the results of the eight years since you took office, the history book of the courts of our country continued with another chapter proclaiming a golden age, in which you played a significant part. Since 2012, the court organization has progressed by a mile, and the sound of success, effectiveness and development has been echoed by the churches of the Hungarian judicial system... What do you think I read to you from: the Hungarian translation of a North Korean government thank-you letter, the text of a Zs category communism parody, or an official document in which court leaders thank the Hando Tünde leaving the head of the National Court of Justice? Yes, those of you who have guessed C from the ranks of the governing parties can take over the Red Flag Medal of Honor on the way out of the Chamber. [[Szilárd István Németh: He is from a family of workers!]] Those who have guessed otherwise will be excluded from Fidesz because of their critical thinking. [[István Németh Szilárd: He was proud to be from the working guard family!]] I'm a little sorry that the word "comrade" has been omitted from the text devouting the Hando Fairy, as with the party Fidesz, the people, is also a text on our way, because no one would have thought that this letter was serious. But it's serious. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Well, that's where we got to. For 30 years, the Communist Fidesz has been giving each other nauseating praises in the style of the Central Committee of MSZMP, while systematically robbing the country and the Hungarians in it. Because it is not in your lying and rude thank-you letter, but we know that Tünde Hando is the betrayer of the judicial independence of Hungary after the change of regime. In a European country, Tünde Hando should not be praised, and certainly not a Constitutional Court, but something quite different. He is not a warrior, not a revolutionary, not a mile-long step towards the golden age, but a traitor. They can share praises, compliment each other's stolen things, lie to themselves, lie to each other. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Morning, noon, evening!]] and, of course, for us, of their imagined successes, but the truth will be, my fellow Members, that you are the looters and destroyers of this country. Of course, we know very well that the boot licking accompanying the farewell of the Hando Tünde in the Orbán system is required not only by court leaders, but by everyone. You've built the system for servitude. They expect the teacher, the doctor, the theater director, the priest, the school principal, and everyone because anyone who doesn't lick up and step down can't be trusted by the state party. Does a nurse agree to the post of a Fidesz congressman? They're firing him. Are you criticizing a fidesz school principal by a teacher? They're firing him. Does a journalist write the truth in the newspaper of Lőrinc Ripper? They're firing him. After that, of course, we are not surprised that Fidesz campaign events can be held in kindergarten and school, that children can be assigned to Fidesz handouts, and that the President of the National Election Committee apologizes personally to Viktor Orbán once Fidesz is accidentally fined. But I don't want to be unfair to you. Some have voluntarily chosen the hard bread of licking and treading, for money, for position, for medals, and some have enough to pet the farmer. Ladies and gentlemen, It's safe to say that this is not a golden age in any way. Of course, you can't give me anything but their essence. You really believe that you will always be able to solve everything in this country with flattery, licking feet, paying debts, and service. Let me tell you something: when this system fails because it will, there will be no plea bargain, no amnesty, and there will be no innuendo. Bad news, then you won't need your language, just your buttocks, because you won't lick, you'll sit down, and not because left-wing Hando Elves will be responsible for the courts, no, on the contrary, because independent justice will act according to the letter and spirit of the law against you one by one. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant holiday. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-09-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2019-12-09-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Congresswoman always succeeds in creating cheerful moments for those present when, for example, she mentions the Red Flag Medal of Honor within the walls of this House. It is also very nice when you talk about various types of personal cult building, which you can see in DK's ranks, of course, in the case of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Mrs Gyurcsány from day to day. [[Gergely Harvesto: Where?]] Who you believe to be the unquestioned origo on the left. [[Gergely Harvestó: According to you!]] After that, it is very interesting that an independent branch of power qualifies for events within a court of law. First, I'd like to make it clear that I'm referring to the address, so let's not just talk about anything else, like you did, what it means to betray someone. Leaving a case, an idea suddenly means treason, betraying something. Within an organization, so in court, there's no betrayal. In no way can internal conflicts be called internal conflicts. We cannot call Hando Fae a traitor to judicial independence, because judges cannot call themselves traitors to judicial independence, since they cannot endanger their own independence. Judicial independence means that this may not be fully clarified so that judges can decide on matters without any influence, without bias. In practice, it is ensured that very strict eligibility criteria must be met by those who want to be judges, for example, they cannot take up political positions. This is why the functioning of the courts is politically unequal, since they are not in a debate, they cannot be represented in political fora on these issues. At the same time, a judicial profession is a kind of career model. The Judges may be removed from office only for the reasons and procedures laid down by law and their term of office shall be until the end of the retirement age. Judges have immunity. In this area, perhaps you have not noticed, Congresswoman, there has been no change in recent years. Of course, these nostalgic Red Flag medals are a different issue, but perhaps you should take responsibility for them. The violation of judicial independence would be the attempt to influence the court's judgment or to intervene in the proceedings, with the aim of determining the outcome. I don't know of any specific case, actual intervention, or experiment, which, on the basis of facts, would ever have appeared in the press without being followed by a procedure that would have ended up with a federal conviction. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What funny things you say in the morning, Secretary of State.]] [[10.10]] If the congresswoman is aware of a specific case we have said this several times, please contact [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Where? Peter Polt?]] according to external instructions, file a complaint, name those perpetrators, judges, and in that case you can be sure that judicial independence in Hungary will be protected by constitutional bodies. I have already talked about the separation of power, the law is subject only to the judges and cannot be ordered in their judicial activities; it is not a political concept, but a statutory requirement, its attack with political arguments is without any basis. It is particularly irresponsible for a Member of Parliament to question the independence of the judges and the court without any concrete political intentions. This is only capable of undermining public confidence in the courts, but this is no stranger to your activities in any other area, of course. What was the basis on which his professional activities could be classified? If we look at the 50 percent reduction in the burden on a judge compared to the period prior to the establishment of the OBH, and the citizens of the courts who are seeking the law will not have to wait years to complete the proceedings, because court cases over two years have also decreased by 50 percent, I think that is a standard enough to make a professional judgment. Eighty-six percent of the lawsuits end in a vast majority within one year of the first judgment. According to all European Scoreboards, the indicators on case-law efficiency have improved in Hungary and Hungary takes its place in the first trimester. At the same time, there have been major changes in this area, including changes in civil order, administrative order and criminal proceedings, which have been carried out by the courts in recent years. In my opinion, Tünde Hando's professional activities are primarily classified by the fact that he was a former President of the Court. Since 2000, he has been the first vice president of the National Labour Judges Association, member of the Hungarian Labour Law Association since 2008, and president of the European Labour Judges Association in 2008. Based on all this, attacking Tünde Hando's identity on a professional basis, I think he's questioning your competence. [[Gergely Arató and Zsolt Gréczy intervene.]] Rather, they should fear that either Csaba Czeglédy or Miklós Hagyó, Miklós Tátrai or Zsolt Császy will openly attack the operation of the courts. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-4	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Before the agenda, Mr Lajos Korózs, from the MSZP Group, asked for a speech entitled "On Current Affairs."
u2019-12-09-5	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the middle of last week, the fourth pension parlament took place here in the building in the upper-house room, and the statements made there made findings that reflected a number of sociological surveys. The European Union has recently published an analysis that shows that Hungarian pensioners in the EU are the most dissatisfied with their lives, all the more so because they are more dissatisfied than the EU average, as I said, unfortunately they are more unhappy than the EU average, and the number of satisfied people in Hungary is the lowest in the European Union. If we look at the situation on the pension front, we need to establish some sociological facts in Hungary. One is that inequalities in the elderly society have increased, which is clear as a result of government measures. It should also be noted that poverty in the camp of pensioners has doubled since 2010, which is also a sociological fact. In addition, it should be noted that the number of people with a million pension has increased to an unprecedented extent. The pension parlament concluded that the technique of the inflation-following pension increase was a trap and that the increase in wages did not go hand in hand with the increase in pensions. This clearly puts the society of pensioners at a disadvantage. Dear fellow Members, On two occasions this year, I submitted a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the initiative of the Socialist Party. I will not mention all of your points to you, but I believe that the ones that I will be registering clearly support the fact that, in the face of the foregoing findings, we could reduce inequalities, where low pensions could be caught up, where there could be a barrier to millions of pensions, were all included in this parliamentary resolution proposal. Each time the Fidesz majority voted against, voted out in substance; they did not allow it to come before the plenary session of Parliament. Our first initiative was to restore the so-called Swiss indexation. I think I am not going to tell you a secret: it is safe to apply the technique where net wage growth is taken into account by 50 percent and the planned rate of inflation by 50 percent in the setting of pensions for next year. The Fidesz majority voted against, because in this proposal it is stated that pensions should be increased by 5.6 percent next year in 2020, and with this vote, they practically said that pensioners should be satisfied with the 2.8 percent increase in pensions. Our second proposal was to increase the pension minimum to HUF 80,000. With this non-voting vote, the Fidesz people said that they should be satisfied with the 28 500 forints that lasted 11 years, and even those who receive some kind of social benefit, because the technique has given it that it will be assigned to the minimum retirement pension, it will be frozen from maternity benefit to family allowance, and it will remain 28 500 forints. The third such proposal was that, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which on 31 March set a limit on the establishment of legislation on invalids, according to which hundreds of thousands of people were unfairly deprived of their care or reduced their care and proposed compensation, the Fidesz majority, because it voted against this motion, said that the disabled pensioners were not entitled to any compensation in this situation. This was confirmed by the government side in response to several interpellations, and it was proposed that the current pension premium system should be reviewed, because since 2014, some HUF 42 thousand has been taken out of pensioners' pockets, not to mention that they did not index this rate, so that almost one third of the ten years of this pension premium has been inhibited by the legislation of 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, In my introduction, I said I was referring to two sociological studies, and I only mentioned one. At the end of my speech, allow me to quote the other one for a few sentences. Eurostat examined the quality of life of people aged over 65 and found that poverty rates have increased in Hungary, the relationship between older people and young people has deteriorated, the size of pensions is so high that it is the worst pensioner in Europe and the social network has been torn apart. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2019-12-09-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Korózs. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2019-12-09-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The only thing you have not added to your speech, honourable Member, is that the pensioners thanked the Socialist Party for taking a month's pension from them, the fifteen-time increase in wages, and it was a wise decision that the socialists did not support the introduction of the Women's 40. To this fine tirada you have said here and to which you praised yourself, honourable Member, that is all we should have done. However, you forgot to tell me that there was no other government, there has not been a ruling group in Hungary since the regime change, which would have reduced pensions in Hungary, only you and only you. And there weren't too many other governments, just the Horn government and your governments, so left-wing governments, which, if an international-owned company said that they now consider their profits to be low, would like a little more profits, they wouldn't allow them to have full price increases, and they allowed people to pay the overall fees of over HUF 1000 billion that they then exported abroad and sent back to their parent companies. Honourable Congressman, You respected the elderly as much as you could quote from Gábor Vona and others, your allies, how you respect the elderly, but you could think so much of the older Hungarian people in their government actions, that when you had to take them away from someone, you never took them from the multinationals, but from Hungarian pensioners, Hungarian families and Hungarian civil servants. They have always been the ones from whom you first removed, and for whom restrictions have been imposed, and the tax increases, now that they are in local governments in several parts of the country, have continued in the same way as they did in 2010 or 2006, honourable Member, the socialists do not change. [[10.20]] He forgot to say that if the method of raising your pension proposed now had been introduced, as you asked for years ago, it would have taken 5 thousand forints a month out of the pocket of Hungarian pensioners. For years, Hungarian pensioners would have been shortened by up to 60,000 forints a year by the method of calculation you spoke about, honourable Member. On the other hand, the pension increase system that we have introduced has increased the amount of pensions by 34.2 percent since 2010, and this represents an increase of more than 10 percent in its purchasing value. You have a reduction, a pension increase and an increase in purchasing value. The next year's budget also includes HUF 20.4 billion for the pension premium in addition to the pension cover. You have taken away from pensioners, and we have been able to give an extra HUF 273 billion between November 2016 and November 2019 with a pension premium, Elisabeth's voucher, pension supplement, one-off benefits or a return certificate, plus the pensioners, and we will work to increase this amount year by year. While Fidesz-KDNP is on the government, this is expected to increase year after year, and in your time there has been a decline and decline, the life prospects of pensioners have deteriorated in Hungary. If you want to hear international examples, honourable Member, because you said: in Hungary, an average pensioner receives 59 percent of the average Hungarian income as a pension, you obviously know that word, a substitution rate, while in the 27 countries of the EU this average is 58 percent. So they get 58 percent of their salary as a pension, and a Hungarian pensioner receives 59 percent as a pension. So this ratio is better in Hungary, it means less income loss in Hungary to be retired from employees than in most countries of the EU. You said, honourable Member, that poverty has increased among pensioners in Hungary. That statement is untrue. What he referred to as a number pair shows that salaries in Hungary have increased very much. That's true. However, this does not mean that the situation of pensioners would have deteriorated, as the value of their pension increased, and fortunately, the pensioners of the future will pay a higher pension contribution with a higher salary, and they will have a higher pension later. This is the number you referred to. As regards Eurostat's investigations into the risk of poverty or social exclusion: at the end of your governance, 21,3%, now 14.9, who are exposed to this risk. The proportion of pensioners affected by deprivation also decreased from 16.2 percent to 5.6 percent on the basis of Eurostat. Don't tell me it's not true, Mr President, that pensioners today live more safely than they did in 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-8	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. On behalf of Ms Szabó Timea, Head of Group on Current Affairs, on the basis of the Dialogue, she also applied for a speech before the agenda.
u2019-12-09-9	Ladies and gentlemen, About an hour ago, you presented a bill that plans to kill the freedom and independence of the whole culture in one blow. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] Although the bill has been softened, according to the uncontested proposal, you believe that in the future policy will determine who can be the theatre director and who can receive state aid. If there is no agreement between the Mayor and the Minister, the support and operation of the theatres may be paralyzed for months or a year. This despicable proposal was submitted with a false reference to what happened at the József Theatre. Máté Kocsis speaks directly of a harassing theater, and Gergely Gulyás, in his falsely stunned voice, writes to Mayor Gergely Christmas that I am not aware of the fact that the necessary consequences have not been deducted until today. Well, on the one hand, you know that, and on the other hand, there is a small problem with this justification. For example, since then it has been revealed that in one of your favourite home theatres, the New Theatre led by György Dörner, they have been trying to cover up a harassment scandal in which the suspect, the perpetrator, is Mihályi Győző. Somehow I didn't hear Máté Kocsis talking about a stalking theater. I hope that Miklós Soltész, or I don't know who will be responding, will now demand the departure of György Dörner from the head of the New Theatre. But I didn't even hear about churches that harassed Máté Kocsis when it came to the fact that the priests had sexually harassed many children, and they didn't even stop public support from these churches. It also shows, ladies and gentlemen, that this draft has nothing to do with the soldier, that Viktor Orbán now wants to nationalise theatres after nationalisation of schools and health care. It is quite simply that Viktor Orbán dreamed of a total dictatorship, an integral part of which is the execution of culture and free thinking. Nothing proves this more than the words of Viktor Orbán in the summer of 2018 in Tusványos:. The third two third two-thirds mandate to build a new era, which is mainly given by the cultural currents. We now have this task ahead of us, which means that we should embed the political system in a cultural era. We need a new intellectual and cultural approach after the third two thirds, and we are facing major changes from September. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is clear, therefore, that nationalization of theatres is about Viktor Orbán's desire to finally cement himself into power with the third two thirds, and, instead of learning from his defeat on 13 October, he takes revenge on everyone who resists his visionary rampage of total dictatorship. Most of the time, you're here for revenge where people are still thinking, where they don't fall for lying propaganda, schools, the Academy of Sciences or even the Széchényi Library. It would be good to know that if they put their dumb friends in the theatres in Budapest and the countryside, they will go to the theatre, because, for example, the National Theatre has already been destroyed. The National, operating under Attila Vidnyánszky, Viktor Orbán's bosom friend, closed the year last year with a loss of HUF 15 million, while receiving 2 billion forints of state support and HUF 400 million of tao support, while the spectator room hung empty. Okay, I know that Viktor Orbán does not go to the theatre, and you have no particular need for culture, but there are still a few hundred thousand people in Hungary every year who do not want to listen to the unpublished poems of Lőrinc Mészáros or Szilárd Németh's music-based pacal recipes in the theatres, but they want a real culture. This requires the theatres to operate independently of themselves, us and all political actors. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] State aid to schools, health care and culture is not politicians, especially the government's pocket money. This is people's money, and you have nothing to do with what they're playing in the theater. Let me conclude with a quote:. It is easy for state theaters, because these are the most effective, if not sufficiently guided by our party, and a great ideological help for the theatre to truly become the mirror of the new world, to provide the highest quality culture to the broadest masses. Do you know when and where this quote was published? In the May 19, 1949 issue of the Free People. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Just like this bill that's filed today! It also shows that you are the same unintelligent communists who were then the leaders of the country. Shame on you!
u2019-12-09-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Szabó Timea. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-12-09-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, I would be able to respond to his speech in a civilised manner with the following: Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You protested with your mouth glued in 2017 with the politicians of the MSZP and Dialogue when you wanted to combat sexual harassment. And now he hasn't said a word about condemning anything that happened at the József Theatre. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Gergely Harvesto: That's not true! That's a specific lie!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and At the time, he said that violence against women had to be done, and now, when asked about the Gothar case, he said that he had to hurry and run away from journalists. [[Timea Szabó: Miklós Kásler's ministerial hearing I was in a hurry!]] Then glued to the mouth, you can take immediate action... You're telling me you're in a hurry to audition for the minister? He wasn't there! [[Szabó Timea: But I was there!]] Congresswoman, according to the records, you didn't ask and you weren't there. You were only in a hurry to attend a retirement meeting with Gergely Christmas. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I was there from the first minute of the hearing to the last minute. [[Szabó Timea: I was there, but I didn't say anything.]] Lajos Korózs has conspired with György Lukács, we remember the scenes.
u2019-12-09-12	Secretary of State, we're finishing this dialogue with the Dialogue. [[10.30]]
u2019-12-09-13	I'm sorry. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai said in 2018 that as an accomplice, she encourages perpetrators who do not provide adequate protection for abused Hungarian women [[It's an interrogation from the dialogue.]] and it could be classified. You have jointly signed a petition on the Marton László case, honourable Member Mrs Bangóné, Zita Gurmai, Ágnes Kunhalmi, Timea Szabó, Bernadett Szél, Ágnes Vadai and I would like to add a list of [[Gergely Harvestó: And how does that relate?]] That one of the worst forms of abuse of power, sexual harassment, is without consequence, for if someone abuses its power, it is the worst, and nothing will change in the country if we do not act against it. We must act, you say, and there will be terrible consequences if we do not act when we should have acted. [[Szabó Timea: Lisbon Convention!]] If you sign a petition in another completely similar case, you light candles. [[Szabó Timea: Talk about theatres!]] Mouths are taped up, Mrs. Congresswoman. And what happened here? We're running out of courage here, Congresswoman. They've been quiet for 11 months. The director of the theatre refers to a statement of confidentiality of the works council. [[Szabó Timea: György Dörner!]] They're signing a confidentiality agreement with the theater staff. In the statement, the unsub is not named. They don't name the unsub after him. Balliberal actors get out of all the questions, they say the theater's already made a statement, they don't have to deal with it. No petitions, no taped mouths, no monocles coming into Parliament, honourable Member. They say they have nothing to do with it. They're still playing his pieces, giving him a royalty income. Lot. Erzsébet Németh says that since there is no complaint, the case is closed. Maybe he was sitting in the gallery painting a black eye. Agnes Vadai, who was here earlier, and who wanted to fight the female-beaters with a black eye, won't say a word. Congresswoman Tünde Szabó [[Szabó Timea: Timea!]] You didn't say anything. No petition, no black eye, no glued mouth, no candle, no boycott [[Zsolt Gréczy: What about the New Theatre?]] And you don't require the mayor to investigate the József Theatre immediately. And what happened at the University of Theatre and Film, honourable congresswoman, is that you would listen to an unsub tell us what happened... And you'll be reassigned at the scene, at the time, to make sure the press doesn't catch up with someone who's accused of something so unacceptable? ! [[Sándor Hadházy: Oops! Zsolt Gréczy: Are you talking about the cordon in Parliament?]] Will the person who has been questioned, as a matter of fact, determine the place and time of the hearing according to the defendant's needs, Madam honourable Member? Where in the world is it that he's the one who can dictate, who can give terms, and you cover it up, cover it up for him, hide it? ! As regards the bill that you have said, honourable Member, it is not true from the first to the last word. He said there was no negotiation. Those who issued a statement of support for the bill, the Hungarian Teatre Society, the Association of the Directors of the Rural Theatres [[Szabó Timea: And who are in them?]] the Hungarian National Theatre Association, the Mosaic Art Association, the Association of Outdoor Theatres, the Association of Hungarian Art Festivals [[Zsolt Gréczy: All Fidesz...!]] Your Honour, ma'am. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Then look out for Madách Square at six o'clock!]] There's nothing autonomous about it. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Come to Madách Square at six o'clock.]] The government continued to say that it will not only maintain the level of support in the field of culture and theatres, performing arts, but also increase subsidies for both independent and stone theatres. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] There's no falling resources, there's an extra resource. [[Szabó Timea: 5 minutes 23 seconds! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] There are so many differences, that what the state maintains there is the state making decisions, which the municipality maintains, where the municipality makes decisions, and where they jointly pay the expenses, they make decisions together. [[The president's ringing again.]] Only, honourable Member, if there is no cultural dictatorship in the capital under Gergely Christmas...
u2019-12-09-14	Thank you very much.
u2019-12-09-15	...then why didn't Bán Teodora support me... [[The president will turn off the speaker's microphone and turn it back on.]] ...tell me. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Nacsa Lőrinc: The reality has come to light again! Zsolt Gréczy: Madách Square, 6 o'clock!]]
u2019-12-09-16	Thank you very much. With all due respect... [[It's constant noise. It's ringing.]] With all due respect, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, next time... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes. Zoltán Balczó: For this reason you will be banned later! Dr. János Fónagy: Yelling is not the truth!]] Speaking before the agenda, Congressman Brenner Koloman, from Jobbik said: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address.
u2019-12-09-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, You're a lousy life, you're a lunatic life! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Tamás Menczer: Jesus!]] As a young adult, this film impressed me very much, and in 2019 all Hungarian citizens who walk with their eyes open in Hungary see similar signs. It is quite terrifying that Fidesz, building a one-party overpower, wants to silence the various layers of Hungarian citizens, and then Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was able to say in front of the European Union not so long ago that he would never try to suppress other opinions. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You're talking right now!]] Well, let's just see what's happened in the last few days and months. Fidesz wants Hungarian workers to be silenced, as they are humiliated by a slave law; the rights of workers are constantly reduced. If someone, such as Siófok, places a bad comment or like, they will be dismissed by the Fidesz comrades. So Hungarian workers are wanted to be silenced and multinational companies are served to the extreme from the point of view of all wage increases. You want to silence Hungarian science and those who cultivate it, both in the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and in the university world, because let us see what has happened in the research network of five thousand outstanding young Hungarian researchers who have been separated from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in recent months: there is no organizational and operational regulations, and every day, fellow Members, leave our country with excellently trained Hungarian researchers, because they do not feel safe, because they cannot search what they want, because they also put a muzzle on them. I'm not talking about the university world, because we see at Corvinus University, with a loose hand motion, they want to eliminate one of the most important levels of leadership in the academic sphere, the arms as well. You want to silence every critical voice in the media world. It is no coincidence that the only decent civil weekly, the Hungarian Voice, must be printed in Slovakia because of your shameful system, because no Hungarian press is willing to print it. We have come this far, fellow Members. Then, of course, you also want to silence the artists of Hungarian culture, as they intend to further centralize the National Cultural Fund, publishing and the world of theatres in their bill submitted 2 minutes before 9:00. Here, the most terrible thing is that ten years slowly, since Fidesz largely governs culture with two thirds, and they are now starting a culture camp because well-paid fidesz culturemen couldn't create a decent work in ten years. There is no great historical film, there is no such outstanding art creation from the pen or computer of fidesz artists stuffed from hundreds of millions of Hungarian taxpayers [[Nacsa Lawrence: Don't lie!]] which deserves to be noticed at international level. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] On the other hand, Jobbik stands as a national party and is in solidarity with the Hungarian workers, who are promised a wage catch-up and an extension of their rights. As the Jobbik National People's Party, we are in solidarity with the artists of Hungarian science, on the side of academic freedom and academic autonomy, because we really are a civil and conservative party. [[Nacsa Lawrence laughs.]] Jobbik, as a national party, is in solidarity with those media players who are forced out of the freedom of opinion by this one-party system, which a Hungarian citizen should fairly ensure in 2019 by a decent government. As Ákos Bod, the candidate for Prime Minister of Fidesz, said, they are not national, because a national government does not steal from its nation, my honourable fellow Members. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] As a national party, Jobbik stands for freedom of culture, above all ideological differences, we are in solidarity with the people you want to put a muzzle on. But at the latest, 2022, when you're where you belong, you'll be in a dump in history. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Lyric ending!]]
u2019-12-09-18	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. [[10.40]]
u2019-12-09-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The congressman has touched on several topics, so allow me to react. As far as workers are concerned, their situation is not more marked than the fact that more than 800 000 people are working and wages are increasing compared to 2010; this does not mean that they are growing as much as we would like, but the trend is positive and more and more investment is needed. I'm sorry you joined the people who were yelling at you about the overtime bill a year ago. The last year has proven that nothing you've said is true. Regarding the question of science: I am sorry that you joined those who announced the death of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences a few months ago, while proving that none of this is true. [[Constant noise in Jobbik's benches.]] As far as media is concerned, in Hungary the media is diverse, everyone finds media that are appropriate to their own temperament, world view and taste. I am sorry that you joined those who, I see, have a problem with the right-wing publicity in Hungary instead of the left-wing public. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's why you need to print a newspaper in Slovakia!]] If someone wants to track your tastes, then look at the archives of the Kuruc.info, maybe it's something for the good guys. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's your satellite party...]] If you have said that there is no significant historical film in Hungary, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Gera Marina was awarded the Emmy Prize a few days ago for her performance in the movie Eternal Winter, which corresponds to the Inter-National Oscar in the case of TV films. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Congratulations to him from here, too. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: TV series!]] I don't know if I told you this fact, but it basically contradicts what you just said. Turn the press, look at it, he wrote it. All the press reports. [[Noise, interruptions. Nacsa Lőrinc Dr. Brenner pointing to Koloman: You're lying!]] Now, the thing is, we've been sitting through a few sessions here in the autumn parliamentary season, but I have to say that I can't remember one better speech that would have been a little different from any of the Vadai-Tordai-Gyurcsány axis's speeches. [[It's constant noise. Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! That's right!]] You once said that there was only hell down below Ferenc Gyurcsány. I'd argue with that so much that it's lower than that. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: PISA test! PISA test!]] A place reserved for those who give up their national principles [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Fidesz! Fidesz! That's right! Applause in the opposition benches.]] and join the post-communists for three-hole half-craps and two mayors' seats. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. A statement from Jobbik's benches, Agent's Law! Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Congressman, that's exactly what you did. That's what they did. [[It's constant noise. Crying from the benches of Jobbik: He started out as a liberal, then became a communist!]] And it's just an incidental fact that, besides the collusion in what is to be said, the entire comparison with the left was performed in style and in the constant search for provocation. Real XXI. It's a hundredth-century small-caliber tempo! [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches.]] And it wasn't that long ago when they vehemently denied any cooperation. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Compared to this, they've assembled everywhere, in about half a hundred larger settlements. You supported Gergely Christmas. How does it feel? [[Demercation and intervention in opposition benches. A voice from Jobbik's ranks is better than wreathing there! Dr. Brenner Koloman, with his right thumb and index finger showing zero with the zero percent KDNP!]] You gave your names to return the people of the past before 2010, the Draskovics Tibors and the SZDSZ team. How does it feel? Your logo was even on István Vító's flyer. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Bravo!]] How does it feel? How does it feel? ! [[There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] In 2004, Jobbik still had crosses in the Advent period. [[It's constant noise. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Bolshevik! The president's ringing the bell.]] Would you have thought that in a few years you would join forces with those who believe that priests are the main enemies in Hungary? As Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife spoke about it in the European Parliament a few days ago? [[Zsolt Gréczy: On your knees, on your knees, on your knees, on your knees!]] Around 2006, it was announced that national policy was important. Would you have thought that they would join forces with those campaigning against foreign Hungarians against foreign Hungarian parties? [[Constant noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: You were a member of the youth department! You were a good one then!]] Next to Slovak parties and Romanian parties? ! Around 2006, they raised their voice in the matter of police officers and eye-shootings. [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman: You were a Jobbik, I remember. Would you believe that?]] Did you ever think you'd get involved with the people who even decorated the pilots of your operation? How do you feel, honourable right-wing Members? ! [[There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Excellent feeling! We're Democrats and you're Bolsheviks!]] When the Jobbik was formed, there was Gergely Pongrátz in the front row! Did you ever think you'd join up with the heirs of Antal Tiny? Would you have guessed that? ! [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Are we learning from MSZMP, my friend?! How does it feel, Comrade Bratislava?]] It's no coincidence that Gergely Pongráz's brother denied you! How does it feel? How does it feel? ! A few years passed, and now everyone understands what Gábor Vona meant when he talked about taking the soul of Jobbik. The result of the soul sale is also clear. You found yourselves in Ferenc Gyurcsány's backyard, and in a world view, in no man's land. [[An uproar in the benches of Jobbik and DK. Gergely Arató: In the back garden of Ferenc Gyurcsány there is the well of hell!]] Now, so in December, I could say that the bona fide became the aide to the autumn eyeballs. So don't hope for many political sugar bacon, but the viola has already arrived in May in the form of a 6 percent election result. [[Crying in the benches of Jobbik. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Zero! Zero! György Szilágyi and Dr. Brenner Koloman with their thumb and index finger showing zero: Zero! A statement from Jobbik: Communists became liberals! György Szilágyi: Zero percent!]] I can tell you one thing: if you continue like this, there will be even less! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-09-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction, Lóránt Keresztes, will present a pre-meeting speech with the title of culture and theatres. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-12-09-21	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Listening to these few minutes, a few speeches, I think, once again, everyone who follows this can say that the Parliament can't really talk about its dignity. Mr. Secretary. What have I heard from you in the last few minutes? Kuruc.info, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Jobbik's election results. Everything was here and that it was Ferenc Gyurcsány's Krampus and the 6 percent result. What did my fellow Member ask you? Excuse me, are you not ashamed, Mr. Secretary, to talk about such things in the Hungarian Parliament, when a shameful bill is tabled two minutes before the beginning of the session, or two minutes before 9:00, which basically upsets the cultural life of Hungary? ! [[Noise, interruptions. Dr. Bence Rétvári: What are you up to? Dr. Brenner Koloman: You're Bolsheviks!]] Exactly, I would like to refer back to this, what my fellow Member Brenner Koloman said, that you have actually denied all the value, Mr Secretary of State, that you once put on your flag. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It's you, old man!]] Neither conservative nor national nor Christian is the political force you represent. [[It's constant noise. Dr. Brenner Koloman: You're Bolsheviks! Real Bolsheviks!]] Technically, what we can say about you is that it's a Bolshevik political force! I'm trying to speak a little louder so you can at least hear me, Mr. Secretary. Specifically, Mrs. Secretary of State, my fellow members of the Government. who have honoured the Hungarian Parliament with their presence at this early hour of the morning. By the way, you probably represented Bolshevik mentality at the time of the change of regime, only at that time you were still trying to move forward with the price, trying to do some kind of pretense activity. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Back then it was Soros money!]] As if they were democrats, but from 2010 you have proved many times: you are only governed by the Bolshevik method of power. We could give a long list of the procedures by which you have demonstrated this. I can talk about MTA, universities, public media. You voted on the Media Council not too long ago, and once again you didn't let in any opposition candidates. But I could talk about the fact that not so long ago the disclosure of the agent files was voted off for the 20th time, but I don't want to take up time with that, but your mentality is quite amazing. But now they're in an area that shouldn't have anything to do with politics, right, in the field of culture. György Aczél should be proud of you. This has been done in a very extreme way, my fellow Members, in an extreme manner. A few days ago, according to press reports, by the way, based on a leaked government proposal, public life is covered by your latest despicable plan, and two minutes before 9:00 p.m. on the National Assembly's website, it's a certain bill of ten or a few pages. [[He's showing me a document.]] I would like to ask the secretary of state, my fellow Members, to raise your hand, who has read this bill. Please put your hands in the air. [[Two of the pro-government benches are coming in.]] I see two hands! Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. Congratulations. I see two hands! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's not long! We read it!]] You have no idea what you will want to discuss tomorrow in quotes, and then on Wednesday, on the basis of the presentation, you will also wish to vote on the basis of Minister Kásler's motion. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Our party and government!]] It's pretty amazing, and it tells us pretty much everything about your sense of democracy. I would like to say that you and all the Members have received a letter from the Independent Performance Arts Association. I think the most authentic thing is to quote the thoughts of this organization to you at least excerpt. My fellow Members, in case you have not read this letter, but I believe that all Members have received it:. The draft, if adopted, limits creative freedom in all areas of cultural life and, through this, narrows the current wide cultural consumption. It would severely restrict citizens' right to free choice and, in a cultural sense, make it one-sided for the purposes and opportunities of using paid forints. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The most important elements are highlighted in this letter. Instead of 130 experts from the 21 colleges of the National Cultural Fund, a narrow, so-called National Cultural Council, which dominates cultural life, would decide on more than 12,000 applications and cultural programmes a year. Members of the National Cultural Council would be appointed either by the Minister of EMMI or by the Government, and from the active actors of cultural life... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's not in the law! It's not in there!]] Mr. Secretary, I've listened to you, too. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Add that this is not in the law!]] This raises the risk of conflict of interest. And similarly, one of the most shameful steps in your draft is that it would force the theatres in the reserve of local governments to come to some kind of agreement, even with regard to the appointment of the head of the institution. [[10.50]] That's what's in your plan, isn't it? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He doesn't appear!]] Perhaps, Mr. Secretary, you've read it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You didn't read it either!]] but the other pro-government Members have not yet read this proposal. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Where is it? Tell me!]] I've read this proposal before. I would like to say that, unfortunately, in a speech before the agenda, I cannot debate the proposal tabled an hour ago, in five minutes, but I think it is also shameful, even the idea that tomorrow you want to debate this proposal without any discussion, without consulting the stakeholders, and on Wednesday to vote on it. On the one hand, I call on you to withdraw this outrageous [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] a bill tabled as a dictatorship, and on the other hand, I ask everyone [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame!]] [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] (Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame!) To be at the demonstration tonight at 6:00 p.m. I would be very proud, and I think many of us would be very proud if this demonstration were to be a slap on the wrist of the government that they would finally be willing to feel. (Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!) Thank you very much.
u2019-12-09-22	Thank you, Mr. Crusade Leader. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2019-12-09-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, If you speak here in Parliament, honourable Member, then at least start with the text of the bill, I would like to ask you to do so. If you speak here in Parliament, don't state anything about a bill filed that doesn't have a text in it. [[Bence of Turdai: There was no time!]] Eleven paragraphs can be read, I think. [[Márta Demeter: Secretary of State have you read it?]] a congressman, and then he sees it, and he knows what's in it. [[Gergely Harvesto: What's in it?]] and what is not in it, honourable Member, because most of what you have said is not even relevant in this bill. It is easy to say that you are completely separated from the text, honourable Member, and to say great things, but I am asking because a Member of Parliament, who will vote on this law, will now vote on his own speech or vote on the bill. Are you going to vote on what you say about him in the press, or are you going to vote on what is in the text of the proposal? Because there seems to be no close causal and factual relationship between the two. One of them has a liberal instigation that, here, autonomy ends in cultural life, from which, of course, what you have said is not true, and there is a bill that is not due. Honourable Congressman, In the beginning, you were talking about principles and the parties' perseverance to the principles. Well, why did the founding president Schiffer leave your party, Mr. Bernadett Wind, Congressman Hadházy? He's barely in your party. [[Márta Demeter: Would you like to join us, Secretary of State?]] Someone, at least I don't know, is a former president who would even be a member of your party. [[Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes: Secretary of State, is that in the text of the law?]] because it was so loyal to the principle that politics should be different, that Ferenc Gyurcsány's drugs are being pushed at the moment. [[Dr. László László Keresztes: Is that part of this? He's showing me a document. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] So much for your... you spent two or three minutes with this, I only spent half a minute, Your Honour. Well, let's get a few things straight, because I think it's necessary to distance ourselves from what this bill doesn't provide. This bill does not alter the nature of mandatory and voluntary tasks in any municipality. In the same way that a municipality has had the opportunity to maintain a theatre as a voluntary task, it will continue. There is no modification in this. The other thing you said about the National Cultural Fund, honourable Member, is that it may be included in the communication that you quoted, but there is no change in this bill that another body will have 15,000 applications and many billion forints of cultural support per year. There is no change in the NKA system either, honourable Member. You said they'd cancel it, plow it. It doesn't stop, it doesn't plow, it continues the same activity. Therefore, the legislation on municipalities does not change, the rule on the NCA does not change. It's also untrue what you said about losing resources. There's no decline in resources. The reason for the bill is literally, Mr honourable Member, when it comes to that point, please read that this amendment was made in order to increase both cultural subsidies and support for performing arts organisations, such as theatres. You said that independent theatres will no longer receive support from this point on. That's what you said a year ago, when the Tao system was replaced by the system of extra lecturer-art subsidies, you said that from now on, independent theatres will not get a penny. [[Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes: I did not say that, Mr. Secretary of State.]] It's been a year, and it turns out that the alarm wasn't real, too. It's been a year, and there's a law amendment that doesn't make it, but it's a good time to put the same record back on and say again what they said a year ago. He didn't come in, he's not coming in now, Mr. Congressman. The future will disprove you. There can be no fear of independent or other theaters. All previous support remains, honourable Member. What will be clarified alone and lead to transparent relations is that if the State maintains a theatre, it will assume responsibility for it and exercise controlling rights. If a municipality creates a theater, bears the responsibility, bears the costs of this, then exercise the management rights. These are perfectly clear situations. At the third, individual agreements must be made, when there is, say, a local government's theatre, but most of the support for the theatre does not come from the local government, but from the central budget, but the government, which has adopted the central budget, has no possibility of acting in the case of, say, an lawlessness. Which I've seen in the last few weeks. Not in a financial context, but before the agenda on the Gothár case, honourable Member. In this case, the government has no opportunity to act if it provides part or more funding for certain theatres. As regards diversity, honourable Member, István Tarlós, under his mayorship, recognising the artistic performance of these people, although not always in agreement with them in the world, but he also appointed Gábor Máté as head of the theatre, Eszenyi Enikő and Pál Mácsai. Now, honourable Member, when the mayor is not called István Tarlós, but Gergely Christmas, not even Bán Teodora is appointed. You don't need diversity, you need liberal hegemony. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. János Fónagy: That's right! Now yell!]]
u2019-12-09-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has also applied for a speech before the agenda: the anti-national campaign of 15 years ago or another stain on the left! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-09-25	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Legend has it that history is the master of life. But it seems that the Hungarian left has learned nothing from Trianon and the anti-Hungarian spirit of the communist dictatorship. He did not study, because 15 years ago the same spirit came back, because the then governing parties, led by Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, did everything they could to ensure that the preferential naturalization referendum on Hungarians in the affected areas would fail. Fall down on the media on the left then, which from morning to evening shouted that with solidarity with our brothers abroad, saying that it doesn't matter that they were separated from us, saying that it doesn't matter that they live in a poorer line than we do, but what matters is that their help and their reunification over borders with Hungary and Hungary in the motherland will cost us money. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: And how much at the end, because you steal everything!]] 5 December 2004 after Trianon became another dark night of the Hungarian nation. The Hungarian nation has gone into darkness because by rejecting the fate community with our fellow nations, they have not allowed us to shine the light of God's presence. Selfishness and the loneliness involved became mainstream. So instead of light, darkness became mainstream. Remember, the struggle between light and darkness is not only a physical reality but also a spiritual and spiritual reality. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We can see that!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Although the existence of darkness is finite, for it is destined for destruction, no matter how powerful it may seem, it may sometimes persist for years or even decades. Therefore, the question in 2004 was to learn to live silently, indifferently with darkness or to fight it. We chose the latter, we fought against it, and we did everything we could to change the darkness as soon as possible. This is how the spring of 2010 came to us in order to bring back justice and fairness in Hungary. In the spring of 2010, after the successful elections, the first thing we did was to reunite the Hungarian nation over borders and wash away the stain. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You have a vote!]] That the government of a nation has refused members of its own nation. We have washed away the stain, and we have brought back the Hungarians of the connected territories across borders to the cultural and economic environment that their ancestors have had for thousands of years since the founding of St. Stephen. [[11.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Any orchestra in the world, whether it is a philharmonic or just a simple quintet, the absolute given by the solo violin is tuned to the sound, and after that only the melody can ring clear. The voice of Fidesz-KDNP in 2010 was the unification of the nation, and the soli deo gloria, that is, the glory of God alone. I wish the opposition parties to recognize the clear A voice as soon as possible, especially in the light of Christmas. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Can you give it to us?]] I wish you a blessed Christmas on the border and beyond to our living fellow nations, celebrating the brilliance of life, celebrating that through the birth and resurrection of Jesus, we have received the capital life that defies sin, defies death, and defies damnation. Remember: Being followers of Jesus is not a series of rituals, nor a religious ritual, but a fulfillment of divine life. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-09-26	Thank you, Congressman Imre Vejkey. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2019-12-09-27	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government, a part of the Parliament and a very large majority of Hungarian people have also tried to contribute greatly to the fact that the wounds that were caused 15 years ago by left-wing politicians, especially Ferenc Gyurcsány, can be healed. Obviously, it's not an easy task, and they're still lacerations. It is perfectly natural that we will do everything we can to support our Hungarian brothers and sisters living in Transylvania, Transylvania, Partium, in Vojvodina, Croatia, Slovenia and in southern Transylvania, in order to support them in the survival of their Hungarians in the first place. Obviously, there are different tasks in every area, in each country, and unfortunately the tone is different with the leaders and politicians of some countries, obviously there are situations that have created particularly good relations over the past 8-9 years, and unfortunately, there are also situations, leading countries that are unpredictable and unfortunately unacceptable to the Hungarians living there. We stand up for them, we stand up for them, we stand for them, we stand for them, and we give them all the help we can in terms of education, community building, churches, and, of course, we provide economic help, precisely to find jobs and opportunities on the ground. What a pity that during your speech, Ágnes Vadai, DK politician, responds to how he responds: it's a shame how much they cost. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I didn't say that, I didn't say that!]] So again comes the mad selfishness that marked this referendum 15 years ago and the policy of the Gyurcsány government at the time MSZP, and now DK, but overall, the left. The other interesting thing, of course, was that selfishness was also rewarded by the fact that Ildikó Bangóné Borbély was the poster face of this campaign, who was represented in the MSZP. His campaign of hatred began then, unfortunately we now experience, every day his hatred of people and voters, which he and most of the left have carried on for 15 years. And, unfortunately, it has to be said: this referendum on December 5th, 15 years ago, was about several things, and the politics that surrounded it then was about several things. He instigated the Hungarians living here against the Hungarians living across the border, inciting hatred, which is really terrible between Hungarian and Hungarian, which is completely unacceptable just because the people who live for millions of years beyond the border could not do anything about the decision that put them in such a position a hundred years ago. And, by the way, they sent a message to nationalist politicians and nationalist leaders in neighbouring countries that they could do anything with Hungarians there. Whatever they can do, which has led to a lot of decisions that have resulted, unfortunately, in these 15 years, in whatever country we are talking about. I have to say that we thought that, despite all this, the left-wing parties would learn from this, and change their politics, they would have a different attitude to the national parts, to Hungarians across the border. It was a shocking thing for me, and for many, of course, for our brothers across the border, that the then president of Jobbik, Gábor Vona, was not present, that is to say, when granting dual citizenship, he was not in Parliament, he did not vote for it. It is also shocking that the godsson compared the majority of Transylvanian Hungarians to those North American Indians who could be bought with a handful of glass beads. This is a bit of an answer to what Mr. Group Leader said: the Jobbik National People's Party. It's not! I'm sorry, the National People's Party is helping brothers across the border. And it is also a very big problem that he supports at least part of the political party calling themselves young, in the last few weeks and months they have been at campaigns, either in Cluj-Napoca or in Felvidék, which have opposed the interests of Hungarians there. The members of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, the following, President Hunor Kelemen and István Pásztor, also asked for help for a reason, President József Menyhárt, but they would rather not come to them. Let us hope that this shameful period of 15 years will not be repeated. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-09-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda.
u2019-12-09-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, There is a growing migratory pressure again in Europe, including in Hungary. It is clear that there are currently three routes for more illegal immigrants in the European Union: Italy or Spain at sea and the Balkan route on land. The Libyan authorities are taking action against those coming from Libya, but the new Italian Government is currently authorising the landing of rescue ships and the activities of NGOs are also stimulating migration, which is used to fuel water to the detriment of African smugglers. Movements along the Western Mediterranean route have also become increasingly active, placing a heavy burden on Spain and Portugal. The situation has been slightly improved by the agreement between Morocco and Spain, resulting in a fall in the number of people arriving in the Mediterranean to Spain. The agreement states that, if it is any closer, illegal immigrants detained at sea will be escorted back to the Moroccan port, although the vast majority of them will still be taken to Spanish ports by Spanish border protection. The pressure on land, along the Balkan route, is increasing. At present, 3.4 million refugees are present in Turkey, which places significant burdens on the country and further increases the threat of terrorism. Turkey's expenditure has used tens of billions of euros in relation to refugees so far. By the way, the European Union has provided only 6 billion of these funds. The growing pressure on the Eastern route may also depend on Turkey's unilateral measures, which could create a major crisis. The number of people arriving in Greece increased by about 20 percent this year compared to last year. The Balkan route is still active, if Greece is included, it is currently adding to around 100,000 illegal immigrants who have been registered at all, and in this number there are not those who have not otherwise been registered. It is also talkative that 90 percent of these migrants are practically strong, under 30, military - age men, and not far from us in Bihács are reported about repeated mass fights and conflicts. Not long ago, there was a report in which refugees from the Bihács camp were interviewed. It is important to know here that this is a 40,000 settlement, where 5-6 thousand immigrants live, and according to local residents, crime has increased since they live with migration and the population does not feel safe. According to the local police commissioner speaking in the report, migrants are constantly arriving and otherwise receiving money. From where, it can't be checked, obviously, the migrants say from their own families, although they are rather skeptical about it. [[11.10]] It is worth noting that 36 major Islamist terrorist acts were committed in Europe between 2016 and 2019, with hundreds of dead and thousands injured. In this situation, the primary idea of all sober-minded people is that illegal migration should be prevented rather than encouraged. In comparison, at the end of the week, we read in the press that they are planning to introduce another mandatory quota in the EU, which, according to Politico, would trigger the current Dublin III quota. a system. Although the draft does not include the word "obligatory" but they talk about the idea of an automatic resettlement quota, which, even according to liberal Politico, cannot be interpreted differently than a new system based on the idea of compulsory resettlement quotas; they would create a new EU asylum agency to examine which Member States should consider asylum applications, as 75% of applications were submitted in five Member States in 2018. In the 2016 quota referendum, 98 percent of Hungarians said no to mandatory distribution, and accordingly we continue to reject its introduction. We also need to know that we are alone in this fight, because both Gyurcsány and Christmas and the entire anti-immigration opposition stand by the migrant quota. Three years ago, they even wanted to prevent the Hungarian people from expressing their views on this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-30	Thank you very much, Mr László Böröcz. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Szilárd Németh wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2019-12-09-31	[[No sound.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, [[Intercoms, among other things: We can't hear it! There's no sound! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-12-09-32	Szilárd Németh!
u2019-12-09-33	[[With a loudspeaker.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Thank you for bringing this subject up before the agenda here in Parliament. It is really the way you experience it, and everyone who has eyes for sight and ears for hearing that the tension on the Hungarian border is increasing, the migratory pressure on the Hungarian border fence is increasing. We also find that migrants come in well-organised forms. A situation similar to 2015 has emerged, although the Hungarian border is not besieged in so many numbers, but it is clear that smuggling gangs organize those who are set free for the Hungarian border fence, supply them with legal ammunition, enlighten them, give them all sorts of technical tools. The following technical tools were confiscated during production by the authorities: single-use smartphone cards, including smartphones, credit cards, thermal cameras, night vision devices, drones, soil testing tools and tools to cut through the fence. In addition, the services have well detected the use of Facebook, the use of the Internet, which is used in communication and organization by those arriving on the Hungarian border. In fact, the network is such that it can reach all the way to Western Europe, because from Western Europe to Hungary, organisers who have already received European citizenship are coming over and waiting for cross-border arrivals. And there are the so-called walking people, who, on the other side of the border, are also confirmed by the Hungarian authorities in Serbia, all the way to the Hungarian border. That is why, for example, in Serbia, it is the settlements near the Hungarian border, Horgos, Martonos and Magyarkanizsa that are most exposed to this emerging threat. I can also confirm with data what Mr President has said, because if you look only at the captures, then in 2018 there were 6506 in their entirety, who were captured. That's a 17-person daily average. This is 12 538 in 2019 until 31 November. This is a 37-person average, but for example, the Saturday-Sunday report, the day before yesterday, is about 108 and 91 border offenders being caught. So this is a parabolic rise, not a balanced rise in these captures. By the way, the arriving migrants are trying to do everything on the ground, underground, over water, over the fence, hiding under a fence, building tunnels, climbing on a train. The pictures we were used to at Calais, the British-French border, we can see today at the Hungarian border, right, the truckers are standing all the way across the Hungarian border, paying them off or threatening them, or simply breaking into the trucks, trying to get into the European Union through them. When we decided to maintain the crisis caused by mass immigration; when we decided to protect Hungary's southern borders by means of a fence; and when we decided to provide Hungarian soldiers with border guard tasks in addition to the Hungarian police, and we gave them the right to defend the border, we did so very well. By the way, this technical and legal border closure, in which Hungary has decided as its only one in Europe, works, and this guarantees the security of the Hungarian people today, Hungary's independence and the freedom of the Hungarian people. And I must stress the legal ban, because here, too, the Member, at the end of what he said, said that the bureaucrats did not put me down, the pro-immigrationists did not put me down, the people who wanted to fulfill the Soros plan did not give up, the compulsory quota, but we are also lucky in this way, because in 2018, the Hungarian Parliament, after a two-thirds mandate from the people, made a constitution that the mandatory quota cannot be applied in Hungary. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-34	Thank you, Szilárd Németh State Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2019-12-09-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; László Hajdu, DK; László Sebian-Petrovszki, DK; Erik Fülöp, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; György László Lu-kács, Jobbik; Péter Hoppál, Fidesz. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Péter Szijjártó Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs; Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; Timea Szabó, Dialogue; Péter Jakab, Jobbik; Márta Demeter, LMP; Ferenc Gyurcsány, DK; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Barna Pál Zsigmond, Fidesz. Attila Barcza, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz; Zsolt V. Németh, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2019-12-09-36	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the termination of the office of State Secretary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2019-12-09-37	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 205. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, Mr Zsolt Kis, State Secretary of the Agricultural Ministry, was relieved of his mandate with effect from 3 December 2019. Budapest, December 2, 2019 Sincerely: János Áder [[11.20]]
u2019-12-09-38	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. At last week's meeting of the House Committee, the Parliament decided on Tuesday, December 10, 2019 to depart from the provisions of the House Rules by saying that Imre Ritter is a representative of the minority at the end of the speeches before the agenda, the first minority 25th Anniversary of the Election of Local Governments in the House Rule 18. It may speak for a period of five minutes by the application of paragraph 5 of this Article. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/8408. can also be found on the website. [[Move.]] Dear Parliament, Please take your seat, who is still on the phone, and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to a derogation from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the derogation from the house rule by 168 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the derogation from the adopted house rules, Imre Ritter's speech before the agenda will take place on tomorrow's sitting following the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Before that, Honourable Parliament, I declare that Mrs Anett Bősz has informed the Speaker of Parliament today that she has joined the Democratic Coalition Group. [[Applause from the DK benches. Rumble on the pro-government side.]] In view of this, the time frame for the discussions of the Commission reports and summary amendments has changed for the DK and the Dialogue Group. The DK Group has 7 minutes, 5 minutes for the Group of Dialogue. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on an exceptional trial. The Government has initiated an extraordinary procedure for the National Assembly to discuss T/8441 on the National Cultural Council, on cultural strategic institutions and on the amendment of certain cultural laws. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The proposal for an exception is T/8441/1. You can find it on the website. [[Gergely Harvesto: Shame, shame!]] The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure has been taken; the consolidated debate shall take place as the last item on Tuesday's sitting and the final vote on the summary amendment proposal on Wednesday's sitting. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. a hundred Members, have to vote in favour of ordering an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you accept T/8441? Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 124 votes in favour, 46 against and without abstentions. [[Gergely Harvesto: Shame, shame!]] Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, it is now possible to submit amendments for 14 hours and 25 minutes. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group suggested that T/7842 on Tuesday 10 December 2019 amending certain legislation concerning the financial intermediary system and public finances and economic stability. T/8021 on the right to social security benefits and the coverage of these benefits for the discussion of the Commission reports and the summary amendment proposal. The Commission's reports and the item on the agenda following the discussion of the summarised amendment should be adopted. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the President of the National Election Office to report on the organisation and conduct of state tasks related to the election of Members of the European Parliament held on 26 May 2019, B/8393. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 122 votes in favour, 42 against and 5 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the President of the National Election Office to report on the organisation and execution of state tasks related to the election of local government representatives and mayors, as well as the election of representatives of national self-government on 13 October 2019, B/8394. a decision on a proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 123 votes in favour, 41 against and four abstentions. [[11.30]] Dear Parliament, Discussions are now taking place between the Commission's reports and the summarised amendments. It follows the debate on the eighth amendment of the Hungarian Fundamental Law, the Commission's reports on the abolition of autonomous administrative judicial proceedings and the summary amendment proposal. T/7991 submitted by Szabó Timea, Sándor Burány, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Tamás Mellár and Bence Tordai, Dialogue and Representatives. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. Before I give the floor to Tamás Herczeg, the rapporteur of the committee, I am ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. The president's ringing the bell.]] So the debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-09-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the eighth amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary, T/7991 on the abolition of autonomous administrative jurisdiction. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 31 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, Five parliamentary representatives of the Dialogue submitted proposals for the abolition of autonomous administrative judicial proceedings and, in this context, for the eighth amendment of the Fundamental Law, and the Government made its decision not to introduce an organisationally separate administrative judicial system. Therefore, the main objective of the draft before us, as stated during the general debate on the bill on 18 November, is to amend the provisions of the Fundamental Law in order to ensure the coherence of the national legal system in order to ensure that the provisions of the Fundamental Law are not imposed in order to ensure the coherence of the national legal system. The proposal on the House's table restores the norm of Article 25 of the Fundamental Law to the state prior to the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, thus constitutively constitutive, by means of the repeal of the separate administrative courts. Under the amendment and in order to maintain a single court system in the future, all provisions relating to the Administrative Supreme Court and its President and the independent administrative courts will be deleted from the text of the Fundamental Law. The proposal, as I mentioned at the beginning of the speech, was unanimously supported by the Legislative Committee at its meeting last week to ensure the coherence of the legal system. Therefore, in particular, in view of the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament need to vote in favour of the adoption of the summarised amendment, I believe that it is absolutely and clearly necessary for all of us to support it. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-12-09-40	Thank you very much. Thank you, Congressman. I'd like to ask you if one of the authors would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio.
u2019-12-09-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have already explained in detail in the general debate why, in our view, it was necessary to highlight the administrative courts from the Fundamental Law, how much this proposal went against the rule of law because of the practice of judicial appointment, how much it went against the system of brakes and balances. We have had a long debate about this here, so I will spare the Members. Obviously, if there's something to be said in the debate, I'll respond in a closed manner. In accordance with the Government's decision, this proposal seeks to amend the provisions of the Fundamental Law on courts with the same content as before the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. Therefore, the parts of the separate administrative court are deleted, but no previous basic provisions referring to the possibility of setting up special courts are recovered. The amendments contained in the summarised amendment, in consultation with the Government, were submitted by the Dialogue fraction. Compared to the original version, some technical changes were made. There has been no change in the purpose of the bill, so the Dialogue faction has adopted it, supports the amendments and asks the House and Members to vote in favour of this proposal. I hope that's how it's gonna go down. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-12-09-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. I apologise to the Member, but I did not inform him that he had 10 minutes to speak in the debate, to present a possible closing phrase. You've consumed 1 minute 40 seconds of this, so you'll have 8 minutes 20 seconds left on lockdown. Dear Parliament, I don't see a candidate on behalf of the government. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Representatives' speeches will follow in the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any sign-ups. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask the author if he would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[By car-Cake Olivio:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/8016. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-09-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/8016 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. Bill No. 1. [[11.40]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 7 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us will continue to achieve the objectives set out in the concept of the General Administrative Regulation Act, the main aim of which is to allow the shortest possible period of time between the opening of the administrative procedure and the taking of a substantive final judicial decision in it. The Akr. On the basis of the data available since its entry into force, it is appropriate to establish a single administrative procedural model as a result of a review of the system of redress relating to district and district official procedures. The effectiveness of the redress system can only be ensured if the forum system for administrative litigation is simple and transparent. In addition to simplicity and transparency, uniform case law, and consistent with the Basic Law, is also the number one requirement that the binding force of the Curia's decisions is to ensure. Accordingly, the courts are obliged to follow the Curia's interpretation of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, The amending proposal seeks to introduce a new means of redress, the institution of the so-called unit-of-law complaint, in the event that the parties no longer have further remedies available. These amendments also eliminate administrative and labour courts. On the basis of the proposal, the place of law of the district court may act as the department of the district court in the future, which is led by the head of the group of judicial staff. The vast majority of the amendments are merely terminological and technical in nature, with the aim of ensuring coherence between sectoral laws and the law on administrative litigation. In view of what has been said, I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-44	Thank you, Congressman László Salacz. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2019-12-09-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, As the rapporteur said, it is the substantive amendments that were introduced by the Commission's amendment. I would also like to point out one more thing: judicial and prosecutorial salary arrangements are also the subject of this amendment, which I hope will be supported by the House as a whole. Thank you.
u2019-12-09-46	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group.
u2019-12-09-47	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly to Mr Secretary of State at this stage of the debate. Of course, we support the increase in salaries, which has been an important step for a very long time, but I regret that I cannot say this directly to the Minister for Justice, the bill was even further removed from being eligible for us after the amendments tabled. During the general debate, we have made our reservations in detail, and I would like to underline it, and this is certainly a very serious criticism for the recently elected Minister of Justice, that even the possibility of consulting the law has not been published after the introduction of the law, and that there is a very short period of time between the announcement and the entry into force, which makes it impossible to prepare. With regard to the one-level administration system, we have also made criticisms that this will make it much more difficult for all those involved. The most important criticism here was not only from us, but also from our opposition fellow Members, the provision that a judicial appointment could be applied for within 30 days of the election to the Constitutional Court, which has changed, so even this 30-day requirement has been removed from the system. So I can only say very briefly that the amendments tabled by the LMP, which have not been supported by the majority, some of which have been maintained, but, overall, we will say no to this bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-09-48	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2019-12-09-49	Yeah. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to reassure the Member that we have complied with the provisions of the legislative law, that the discussions with the relevant professional organisations have taken place. As far as the law is concerned, administrative courts as special courts are not established, that is the content. We know that this would have been introduced on 1 January 2020. This was adopted earlier by the House, so it would have been very difficult to bring the amendments into force with a different date than this, because it would have caused some confusion if we had started with the administrative courts and then returned to this matter. So I would just like to stress that that system also met the criteria of the rule of law, international pressure, and because of various hysterical acts, the government refused to do so in the spirit of compromise. I think what we should be looking for is that if we were looking for a compromise and a consensus, then maybe you should be looking for it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, the National Film Institute Public Use Nonprofit Zrt. will follow the laws. the Commission's reports and discussion of the draft amending proposal submitted for its amendment in the context of its establishment. The government referral is T/8037. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-09-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 5 December 2019 the National Film Institute of Public Use Nonprofit Zrt. discussed the various laws. T/8037. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 2 against and 5 abstentions. The purpose of this bill, as stated in the general justification of the bill, is to unify the state-supported moving image sector in such a way that more successful, quality moving images are produced, which create cultural value and strengthen national identity. According to the proposal, the National Film Institute would be established on 1 January 2020 by the Hungarian National Film Fund Public Use Nonprofit Zrt. Based on its foundations. The new Institute will be the successor of the Television Film Mecenature and the Television Film College, which will carry out support-related tasks. The National Film Institute will be able to deliver the completed content to the widest possible audience on the basis of uniform dissemination principles. The aim of the new institutional system is also to provide predictable, continuous job opportunities for actors in the film industry. It is also important that the National Film Institute ensures uniform professional control both in terms of content and in terms of distribution. The new institution eliminates duplication, thus achieving a more efficient operation with the same budgetary resources. Nor is it an incidental aspect that the viewers can, through several platforms, mainly think about younger generations of new content to come up with. Ladies and gentlemen, The establishment of the National Film Institute provides a uniform system of support for works intended for cinema and television distribution, ensuring its transparency and interoperability between uses. As a result, even more successful quality Hungarian works can be created in the future, as well as the promotion of Hungarian film and its international competitiveness can be strengthened by the establishment of the Institute. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-52	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Herczeg. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Csaba Dömötör: Yes.]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2019-12-09-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The purpose of this draft law is to bring the Hungarian cinema industry to a level. This means, on the one hand, that more quality works will be created, and this will reach even more people, not only at home, but also abroad. The period before 2010 was characterised by confusion, of which only one side is debt. That is why the task was to put the support of the motion picture industry on a new footing. The results of the work carried out are already visible, including in the form of hundreds of prestigious international awards. [[11.50]] Since the last debate, we have more reason to be proud because Gera Marina has won the Emmy Award for her role in the movie "Eternal Winter." We also congratulate the artist and everyone who played an important role in the production of the film. The interesting combination of fate is that he received this highly prestigious award on the Memorial Day of the victims of Gulag, and this recognition also indicates that more high-quality historical works are being made in Hungary. We want that to be the case in the future. With the adoption of the draft law before us, the National Film Institute would be established on 31 December. This film institution would unify forms of support, eliminate duplication, and thus be able to operate more efficiently with the same budgetary effort. I would like to highlight three important circumstances in this regard. First of all, changes to the law are also justified by changed consumer habits, especially with regard to the youngest generations. The aim is to include future works on new types of digital platforms, as well as on new distribution channels. Secondly, the priority is to create more historical films. What we want is for films to be about us, about us, which is what gives the value and depth of European films. Let's not play these movies anywhere, but somewhere, preferably here, and about our history, and they want to say something about the place they're about. In addition to our historical actions, our artists' lives, works and rich literature can provide excellent inspirational materials for all of this. Thirdly, we have great hopes for cooperation in Central Europe. We have high hopes for co-production works, which may have been less emphasized so far. Our common historical and cultural heritage here in this region is a strong enough pedestal to speak more strongly to the 150 million people who live here. Let's get to know each other better, since political cooperation is stronger than ever in the last 30 years. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have expressed their views at various stages of the debate. The amendments incorporated in the proposal are essentially legal in nature, such as the establishment of the National Film Institute on 31 December this year. Dear House, To sum up, it is a bill that serves the interests of the Hungarian film industry, the needs of the audience, and it cannot further strengthen Hungarian culture. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-54	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Csaba Dömötör, for his speech. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask if anyone wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Csaba Dömötör: No, thank you.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on legislative amendments to simplify and electronise certain procedures and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/7690. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-09-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/7690 on the amendments necessary for simplifying and electronicising certain procedures. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 29 votes in favour, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is proposed that, in order to simplify and electronicise the procedures of administration relating to the application, issue, extension of validity of a driving licence, the person who obtained the first licence in Hungary, who completed a new category of examination or who extended the medical fitness can have a licence almost immediately after the necessary conditions have been met, and that the application and production will be made automatically and free of charge. The facial image and signature required for issuing a driving licence shall be automatically received from the personal data and address register or passport register, provided that a maximum of three years' facial image is available. If facial images cannot be taken, facial images can be uploaded using a mobile phone application or a web browser application, or facial images and signatures will be automatically recorded and signed at the nearest document office at the time of the exam. It is a forward-looking idea that the exchange of documents relating to the marriage name other than the name of birth or other worn should be carried out automatically. Thus, a permanent identity card as well as an official identity and address card may be issued on its own initiative to the citizen whose name has changed at the same time as the marriage. I would also like to mention another area: in the area of changes in the supply of documents to newborns and family allowances to the right of the subject, it is proposed that, in the case of those born in the Institute, the health service provider, after birth, immediately initiates by electronic means the data necessary for the issue of the documents, which will reach the competent authorities, from which the completed documents will be sent to the birth registry administrator, who will ensure that they are properly delivered. The fourth area, which I would like to mention, is that, in the case of public administration in relation to death, the aim is to rationalise the procedure, to reduce the administrative burden on deceased relatives, and to speed up and reduce the burden of electronicisation. This includes, inter alia, the transmission of the death certificate as an electronic document to the data subjects, the reduction of the notification obligations of relatives, the notification of utility service providers and the automatic transmission of the information on the fact of death in order to initiate the succession procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us contains remarkable and exemplary ideas to simplify electronic procedures for Hungarian citizens and to reduce the administrative burden on them. In view of this, I consider the proposal to be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-56	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Herczeg. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Tibor Scones: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[12.00]] I'll ask if anyone wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. [[On the sign of Tibor Scones:]] Yes, the rapporteur, Mr Tibor Pogácsás, points out that he wishes to express his thoughts within a ten-minute time frame.
u2019-12-09-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The purpose of the bill before this House is to electronicise and simplify individual procedures and create the necessary legal framework for the development and application of other IT developments. With regard to the simplification and electronicisation of certain procedures, the draft proposes: procedures for issuing driving licences, procedures for issuing documents for newborns, simplification of procedures relating to the issue of documents required after marriage, automation of postmortem administrative procedures, the legal environment necessary for the renewal of the personal ID application system under Navas, and the development of the Navasz mobile application. Mr President, Dear House, Proposals for amendment to the bill have not been submitted; in the course of a detailed debate, legal and codification clarifications should be introduced in the text of the bill. I would particularly like to point out that the Ministry of Interior also held seven-party consultations during the hearing of the bill, where the participants clearly supported the bill. This leads to the conclusion that the bill can be adopted in the broadest possible way by the Parliament, with the support of opposition parties. Overall, a law can be created that contributes to simplifying the administration of citizens, to public-friendly e-government, so I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-58	Thank you for closing, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the family protection action plan and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/8013. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-09-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/8013 amending certain laws relating to the Family Protection Action Plan. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 26 votes to one, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us contains amendments that concern, inter alia, child protection specialist care, elderly care, rehabilitation services and family policy. One of the main objectives of the amendment is to ensure compliance with EU law and harmonisation obligations and to ensure uniform application of the law and, finally, clarification of data protection rules. The bill serves the government's social objectives since 2010, i.e. improving the situation of families raising children, helping those who really need it, and protecting workers who receive grandparents' childcare fees. Thanks to the family protection action plan, the government has successfully helped to raise children, and it is still the government's job to provide all the help and support to families. This is possible because the Hungarian economy is performing well. Dear House, Our priority is to continuously improve the situation of Hungarian families, so we consider it important to amend certain laws related to the further family protection action plan and any changes that will help Hungarian families. In view of this, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-60	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Bóna. I'll ask the author how you'd like to react. [[Dr. Bencze Rétvári:]] Not now, you'll want to tell me the closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. The speeches by the Members now follow the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, betterman, and I give the chair of the meeting to Vice-President István Jakab. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2019-12-09-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would reassure everyone that I will far from complete the time frame available, especially because repeating repeats in the general debate would be completely unnecessary. At the same time, I would like to warn you that, although we will support this package, it would really make sense for the parent institution to use this benefit with a pension and to put the grandparents of a younger age or who are still saving their energy in a position to provide meaningful help. I also do not see a very important amendment that I would like to draw the attention of the government to: I do not see how the government has dealt with that problem in relation to close settlements, and I turn to Mr Secretary of State to say that a Gödi Grandparent can help very, very easily in the life of a Dunaharaszti family and child, but because they live in different administrative units, so the amount of benefits that apply to them is slightly reduced. It was in the general debate to settle this issue, and I see no trace of it later. I very much hope that the government will be able to smuggle all this into it in some other way. I understand the victory report that my Fidesz fellow Member, linked to the summary amendment, said that the economy is splitting, that the family protection system is splitting. I would like to help you with that, so if the scope of the economy really allows you to expand the opportunities that point to the real turning of demographic data. Unfortunately, Hungary has now bled out for all demographic indicators, in the last three years even the fertility rate has frozen and shows a minimal decrease. That is why we are capitulating you to make these programming points available to the widest possible circle, including grandparents' children for pensioners. In the same way, the possibility of buying a car for large families would be most desirable if it were available for a used car with adequate technical parameters. And I could mention the additional points: from the dedication of the total amount of benefits of the CSOK in the case of the used apartment, there would be a lot of opportunities in this system that, if the Hungarian economy really splits, would be available. That is why I do not understand why in the package before us they do not appear in their depth. Nevertheless, of course, we will support what lies before us. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-09-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if one of my fellow Members would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-09-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you, everyone, for your support. I believe that the introduction of the Grandparent child care fee is a well-conceived goal for all of us, and the Government has already announced this in the Prime Minister's annual speech. I think this is an opportunity for Hungarian families, perhaps not even in other countries of the European Union. We strive to make the regulation as flexible as possible, to adapt the Hungarian family support system to as many families as possible, to be more flexible in kindergarten care, to have a kindergarten care in as many places as possible, to return as soon as possible if a mother wishes to go back and stay with the child as long as possible if the child is happy to stay at home with the child by the age of three. But if the family is not a father or a mother, but one of the grandparents who is still young and has the strength to care for the grandson, then have the opportunity to do so, and the parents will also be able to go back to work earlier, but the child can still grow, build and grow in a family environment during the day. So all of our changes are tailored to the needs of families, starting from families, trying to help families in their newer and newer lives. It has not been a year since 2010, when the system of family support has not been extended every year compared to the previous year, nor will it be any different in 2020, since several measures, such as the birth of grandparents or mothers with four children, are all coming into force from next year. Even in this bill, the more flexible employability of mothers with small children is an important amendment. [[12.10]] We hope that this will also help families; and there is also a social aspect of the bill, which has been developed to regulate the basic rehabilitation service for visually impaired persons at the statutory level, and the Parliament can also accept it this week. A new form of care is created, the way in which older people who want to take care of themselves in their old age but are not yet eligible for nursing home care, which also promotes a new slice of old age security, reduces waiting lists in residential social institutions and retirement homes, while, in addition, it does not affect the situation of those already there or in their social situation or in their state of health, it does not otherwise undermine the situation of those who are legally entitled to do so, but it subsequently provides a form of care to others, in a transparent, clear, legal framework. And it is also important that, as of 1 July next year, children will be subject to the introduction of a new IT system supporting work processes in the field of child protection and correctional care, and children receiving child protection will also be accommodated in foster care housing. This proposal is therefore tailored to the needs of families and to those in a socially difficult situation, whether it is a child or an elderly person or a visually impaired person, providing new opportunities, precisely because the results of the economy in Hungary already allow this; this was not the case before 2010, then these opportunities have narrowed down, and now they are expanding. I ask my fellow Members to support this; the speeches seemed to have a good chance of doing so. And we will also ask you that, when next year, due to the threats to the muscleisation and recovery of the economy, which are already visible both from the US-China, Europe-USA or Europe, and this threat has already spread to more and more countries in Europe, about zero percent of German economic growth and other examples, we should create further opportunities for economic growth in Hungary, precisely so that such and similar family protection measures are adequately covered in Hungary, and that children and the family should always be the first for governments. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The discussion of the Commission's report on the further participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation follows. The government referral is H/8030. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, Now I ask Mr István Szilárd Németh, State Secretary, that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated National Defence and Police Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-09-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, However, it is a very important issue, and I thought that my fellow Members would also comment on this issue, because it is not unknown to us, and this is the third time that we are going to extend the role of the Kurdistan mission until 31 December 2021. Before the agenda, too, we talked about the threat of migration, which is on the southern border of our country. In practice, we are seeing signals from 2015, and in this situation it is very important to talk about the relationship between migration and terrorism, global terrorism, as the role of this mission in Kurdistan is also to participate in the international coalition to combat the spread of global terrorism. We are now at the NATO Summit last week saying that one of the biggest challenges and the greatest threat facing all thirty NATO Member States is illegal migration and terrorism linked to migration processes. NATO has repeatedly warned about the extent to which Europe's security depends on the situation in the Western Balkans, which is why we can see that while NATO has been able to integrate the Western Balkan countries either as a NATO Member State or as a cooperation with NATO countries in a peace partnership system, the European Union, led by Juncker, has not been able to do so at all, and even further and further the integration of these countries into the European Union. This is why Hungary has not only undertaken an extension of this mission in the framework of NATO and in the framework of international cooperation, but we have increased the number of our soldiers participating in the other two missions of NATO from 499 to 669. One point serves to strengthen the Western Balkans, as there will be an increase in the Hungarian quota in Kosovo next door, and the other in Afghanistan, in the more dangerous Western part of Afghanistan, from which terrorists will also organize their attacks on Europe. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the extension of this NATO mission in Kurdistan, with 165 soldiers, in order to strengthen Hungary's reputation and improve it, and in the interests of the security of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain asset management laws and on certain provisions relating to asset management and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/8033. The Commission's non-autonomous proposals are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2019-12-09-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of assets and the provisions concerning the management of certain assets, T/8033. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 2 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The basic objective of the bill before you is to adopt, on the basis of the experience of law enforcement, the necessary amending provisions for a uniform interpretation of the law and, in recent years, to transpose the legislation of the proposal on national assets and on changes in the management of assets. The bill lays down detailed rules for the railway land formation process and amends the 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport. Law, too. The proposal also amends a number of rules on trust status and the use of national assets, the main aim of which is to reduce administrative burdens. Among other things, the bill helps the Minister for State Monitoring of Gambling Management to fulfil his obligation of control and sets out, at legal level, accounting for the amount of registration applied in practice in the event of the transformation of public companies, the rules on property rights of central budgetary bodies to take over the obligation to provide tasks and the assets required by the company with succession. [[12.20]] Dear House, I have mentioned only a few elements of the bill before us, which I think are positive and forward-looking provisions, so I ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak to his representative now or at a later stage of the debate. [[Dr. János Fónagy: In the end, Mr. President, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. This is the next speech of the Members, there is a time-frame hearing, and a two-minute comment is not possible. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2019-12-09-69	Mr President, Dear House, I have already given up my efforts to make it clear to the government that from gambling management through the MÁV to various religious issues, it is not worth cutting everything into a salad, because the one-time opposition representative will find something in it that he cannot identify with, but I have let go of this endeavour, as we see the final version of this proposal. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State a single question, and this is when we can see the national inventory of assets promised in 2010. You know, this is such a pinch here in the Jobbikon, but it would be nice to face something concrete as to whether we can count on it in this cycle, once again, this 2010 promised, welcomed, agreed on something, without which the conduct of such debates is much more difficult for you, I think we agree on that. So a specific target date would be very helpful for us to make a decision. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-09-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2019-12-09-71	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you is intended to create a legal environment that meets the regulatory needs of national assets, including, in particular, state assets and national financial services, in the performance of public tasks and in the context of economic and social relations. During the parliamentary hearing of the bill, the following amendments were tabled by my fellow Members. Among the amendments to the proposed legislation concerning the organisation of gambling law, the rules concerning the closing of the business within the competence of the notary are to be deleted, but the notaries will continue to be entitled to close the shops operating the machines without authorisation on the basis of the relevant notice of the Gambling Inspectorate under the provisions in force. The provisions of the bill concerning the Rail Transport Act, in particular the amendment provisions on the use of foreign real estate, should be deleted from the list of land legislation, which serves as a priority protection of agricultural land provided by the Fundamental Law. The amendments proposed by the Commission concern certain provisions amending the legislation on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and the amendment of certain economic legislation. The aim of these clarifications is essentially to increase the protection of the institutions of cooperative credit institutions. In order to facilitate the implementation of institutional protection, it is appropriate that the Minister for National Financial Services or the person designated by him participate in the Assembly of the Integration Organisation, and that all decisions of the Assembly of the Integration Organisation, as laid down by law, be subject to the approval of those persons, which ensures State control in respect of the assets made available by the State to the Integration Organisation. The amendment also clarifies the rules on notification of the meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Integration Organisation. In Parliament's decision-making, the bill was supplemented by a provision for the municipal ownership of the property owned by the State in Érd. This transfer of ownership will help the beneficiary municipality to carry out its municipal and water utility tasks, as well as to ensure a satisfactory settlement of ownership with regard to local residents in accordance with existing ownership conditions. In addition to the substantive amendments, the rapporteur accepted a number of codification and grammatical clarifications aimed at establishing linguistic and legal coherence in the text. I would also like to thank the committees for their professional support, with which they have contributed to clarifying, clarifying and supplementing the text of the bill from a professional point of view. In response to the question that the Member has just asked, allow me to point out and offer the possibility of further consultation, because between the concept of wealth inventory and the concept of the national inventory, there has been a side-by-side narrative for many years. It has a normal basis for the inventory of the country, while oral promises and statements made at the time of the hearing have been made on the establishment of the inventory of assets, but there is no norm basis for it. In my view, it is the national inventory that keeps it up-to-date, as far as possible, according to the professional circumstances, because in that Member, I think he agrees that this is not a static system, it is a continuous system where the incorporation of the facts of the previous year into the current year after the year is obviously taking time, and this means months of delay. So the point is that the national inventory can also be viewed on the website, but I also think it is in the interest of the government to avoid the polarity resulting from the use of the two concepts, so I am ready to discuss this and, occasionally, offer a consultation opportunity. As far as the proposal is concerned, we believe that the regulatory objectives set out in the bill will, on the one hand, promote further rationalisation of the management of national assets and contribute to the development of national financial services. On this basis, I ask this House that T/8033. Please support bill No 1 and the amendment that summarises it. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-72	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your comprehensive, detailed answers. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to simplify the functioning of the metropolitan and county government offices and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/8017. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2019-12-09-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/8017 amending certain laws to simplify the functioning of the metropolitan and county government offices. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary has set out with the 2014-2020 programme plan the public administration and public service development strategy to ensure that the institution of the State of People's Trust with a modern and customer-friendly set of procedures is available to all in a professional and competitive way, with competitive service fees and short deadlines, with key players in the capital and county government offices, as they are the closest public authorities to the community of citizens and businesses. [[12.30]] The vast majority of the current official procedures of government agencies operate under a slow and cumbersome authorisation procedure. Thanks to the proposal, these procedures are gradually transformed into procedures subject to notification. The bill aims to give greater weight to the state's procedure than minor infringements in the performance of the infringement tasks, so that instead of the district offices, the police are designated as a general infringement authority. The first-level building authority system with shared competence will be terminated, and the general building authority's powers will be integrated into a government agency system with the notary of the local government of the district, the notary of the metropolitan municipality, and the main metropolitan notary. The exclusion of the possibility of an appeal procedure in the case of decisions of district, capital and district offices affects the entire administrative procedures of the metropolitan and county government offices, so customers can exercise their right of appeal directly to the court in the case of district offices. Finally, with the bill, the county seat district office category will be abolished, so the county seat tasks will be returned to the county government offices. Dear House, The proposal should be supported in order to reduce administrative burdens and to ensure efficient and faster administration. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State has indicated that he wishes to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. I ask you, one of my fellow Members wishes to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-09-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As Mr President pointed out, the legislative amendment proposal changes the powers and responsibilities of the government so far to a large extent and proposes better and more effective care. I'm gonna put it in points, summarizing what it's all about. The vast majority of the current official procedures of the metropolitan and county government offices operate within the framework of authorisation procedures under the general administrative regulations. At the same time, this rigid regulation was slow and cumbersome, and as a result it has to be changed, it has not served the interests of citizens and businesses, so the bill proposes to change it from the authorisation of a number of official procedures into a procedure subject to notification. This will help to ensure legal certainty while speeding up the handling of cases that affect customers. The second major change concerns the metropolitan and county government offices as a whole, in the case of decisions of district, metropolitan and district offices to exclude the possibility of appeal proceedings. As a result of the measure, customers can exercise their right of appeal directly to the court in the case of district offices, as in the case of the metropolitan and county government offices, where this decision has already been made. The third change, a major change, is that, according to the bill, a more uniform, clearer government agency will be set up in the context of the reform of the government agency system. As part of the reform of the Governmental Organisational System, the county seat district office category will be abolished. The tasks performed at the county seat are returned to the county government offices. The district, metropolitan and district offices will deal only with district-level cases, while county-level cases will be dealt with by the metropolitan and county government offices. Next change: the first-level building authority system with shared competence will be abolished, and the general building authority powers so far at the notary of the local government will be integrated into the government agency system. The aim of the transformation is to simplify the system of public bodies, reduce administrative burdens, eliminate overlaps of powers and conflicts. Next change: at the same time, violations will be handed over from district, capital, district offices to the police. In the case of minor violations by citizens, greater emphasis would be placed on the procedure of the State if the police were designated as a general infringement authority. By installing the authority of general infringement to the police, a part of the administrators acting in cases of non-compliance are transferred to the police, and their legal relationship becomes a law enforcement employee. The amendment proposal ensures that they retain their previous salary. The next change is the removal of measures of a harassment nature for citizens. The bill includes the abolition of a number of measures that citizens consider unnecessary, in many cases almost harassing. Thus, for example, the rehabilitation plan for the disabled person will be abolished, or, in order to help socially dependent citizens, the right to receive the subject's public health care from two to four years, the right to normative public health care from one year to two years. Next change: the National Court Office will be designated for the registration of caregivers, like the management of the records of ad hoc caregivers and ad hoc guardians. Next change: the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage allows it to determine, in the case of major investments, on the basis of the professional considerations of the statutory heritage protection body, which organization is involved in the performance of its archaeological tasks, instead of the order laid down in the previous law, of the bodies entitled to perform archaeological tasks under the law. If an administrative action is brought against the food chain safety or forestry management decision of the National Food Chain Safety Office, the Metropolitan Tribunal shall be solely responsible for the administrative action. Next change is that individual business cards will become invalid on 1 January 2020. Self-employed persons must submit the ID instead of the State tax authority to the district offices in order to involve them. Furthermore, if the self-employed person has not issued or sent the ID, the district office shall withdraw it. In addition, the tasks related to the notification or cancellation of self-employed activities are transferred from the district offices to the National Tax and Customs Office only as of 1 July 2020 contrary to the original plans. In order to simplify the functioning of the metropolitan and county government offices, the government intends to establish rules for amending certain laws to ensure that government duties and powers are performed more effectively than at present, to ensure that customers have easier and simpler procedures and to allow for a more uniform, clearer establishment of the government agency. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the amendment of the law. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2018 CXXV on Government Administration follows a series of steps. Act CXXV of 2018 and Act CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the law and the discussion of the draft amending proposal. [[12.40]] Government referral T/8019. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-09-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Act CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. T/8019 on the amendment of the Law Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 22 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us aims to make the law easier to apply, both in terms of staff management and in terms of government legislation. In this way, it allows the Prime Minister's Government Office and, in the case of ministries, a common office to be established on the basis of organisational and efficiency criteria. The main reason for this is that in the case of central government administrations, the performance of functional tasks, such as financial, legal and coordination activities, operate within a very similar framework of division of labour and organisation. The amending proposal removes the duplication of legislation on territorial and central government officials from 1 January 2020. This also extends the system of remuneration and recognition introduced by the Code to employees of government agencies, replacing the system of advancement based on the principle of senility. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us contains solutions that make the legislation defining the employment of government officials more effective, simpler and more uniform. In view of this, I call for the support of the proposal submitted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State has indicated that he wishes to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the meantime, since there is a time-frame meeting, two-minute comments are not possible. I'm asking if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-09-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Act on Government Administration entered into force on 1 January 2019, which introduced job-based staff management, which resulted in a paradigm shift in government human resources management. During the transitional period until mid-March 2019, the government, taking into account the Prime Minister's proposals, established the number and classification of the basic posts of government administrations. Experience in job procedures has justified the amendment of the staff management part of the law in order to respond better to practical challenges. In addition, other proposals have been included, many of them have debated issues, which I will address separately. The bill is therefore supplemented by the appointment of the Deputy State Secretary in the Ministry led by the Minister for Youth, who does not have the skills required by the Act on Government Administration, but who participates in training to obtain it, provided that the Deputy State Secretary is responsible for carrying out tasks related to youth. The next change. The motion excludes from the Annex to the Act on Government Administration the provision under which the basic public service register forms part of the register of data relating to membership of the representation. Next change. The rules governing government officials of the metropolitan, county government offices should apply to government officials of central government administrations after the entry into force of the bill. However, the rules on the recognition and termination of service at government offices remain in force, which is more favourable than the rule on employees of central government administrations. Since service recognition at government offices is already after twenty years of service, and after 25 years of employment in central agencies, while after 20 years of service, there is no increase in severance pay in central agencies, government offices still have two months' leave after 25 years. The next change. The scope of freedoms under the Law on Government Administration is complemented by another additional freedom. Any government official who is over 50 years of age and who is not entitled to supplementary leave for children and/or leave for managers may take three working days a year in addition to his or her basic leave and the supplementary leave corresponding to the classification of the post. The next change. It is possible to change the possibility that, under the Law on the Status of Patrols, the Chiefs of Staff of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior may also be appointed a person assigned to the Ministry under the Law on the Status of Patrols, or under the Law on the Service of Professional Staff of law enforcement bodies. It is also a change to the Ministry of Defence that a post not assigned to the department can be created for the purpose of contacting the Hungarian Defence Forces and coordinating priority management tasks. The following shall apply to the salary of the Secretary of State. The rules on the salary of the Secretary of State are differentiated by the amendment in such a way that the State Secretarys of State who simultaneously hold seats as Members of Parliament continue to be entitled to the current salary, while the other State Secretarys of State are entitled to the salary corresponding to the salary of the Administrative Secretary of State, the amount of which has been established by the Minister within the statutory salary band. The following change: the Ombudsman and the National Data Protection Institute, President of the Information Office, are currently entitled to ministerial salaries and 50 per cent allowances. This would be amended by the submitted bill to allow them to be entitled in future to the upper limit of the Administrative State Secretary's salary band. This amendment is amended by the fact that the President of the Ombudsman and of the Data Protection and Information Office will be entitled to two and a half times the fee of the Members of Parliament each month. The salary of the Secretary-General of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, according to the bill, will be equivalent to the upper limit of the Deputy State Secretary's salary band. According to the amendment, the President of the National Remembrance Committee will be entitled to a salary corresponding to the ceiling of the statutory administrative secretary's salary. The amendment introduces a technical scholarship programme for foreign affairs in support of training at the Hungarian Diplomacy Academy and in support of studies in the diplomatic training system, as well as for the development and acquisition of professional knowledge at sectoral level in foreign and foreign affairs. Dear Parliament, I would like to return to the first change, which is because it is very important to point out that the person who will be Deputy State Secretary for Youth and who will have the opportunity to work as Secretary of State as a young person, it is important to know that this change is only true in this area. I would just like to point out to the opposition media, the opposition representatives that in the meantime there is a 16-year-old girl named Greta Thunberg, who shouts all kinds of nonsense into the world, but still raises it to the highest levels and wants to influence the world without any qualifications. [[12.50]] Or there was a woman named Blanka, who was known for being obscene and wanted to be a councilman; thank God she failed. Or there was a politician in the European Union, so-called Martin Schulz, who was the President of the European Parliament, the leader of the socialists and a great friend of today's Hungarian left. Even though he didn't have a high school diploma, he led the Union in this way. However, I must add that it is not everything if someone has a degree. Ferenc Gyurcsány was here, Tibor Draskovics was here, despite the economics, they said so themselves: then I died, that for a year and a half we had to pretend to govern, instead we lied in the morning and in the night and in the evening. And they destroyed the country. Let me also mention the young people in Jobbik's internship program. I am sure it would have served a good purpose, but it was interesting that your representative, Congressman Stummer, said that we would eliminate the prostitution nature of Jobbik's internship program. I believe that you can come up with many, many good ideas as to why this young lady should not be Deputy State Secretary for Youth. But we'll see; Kata Novak, who, as State Secretary, was very good at running the family business, I'm sure she'll make the right decision here, too. Thank you very much for your attention, and I would like to ask the majority of Parliament to assist in adopting this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-09-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the bodies with special status and on the status of their employees and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/8020. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-09-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/8020 on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 5 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal presented aims to create a new law, the principle of which is to standardise the management of the number of bodies and the relationship between their employees. The proposal before us introduces the special status category as a common name for autonomous public administrations and self-regulatory bodies, creating a third type of public administration in addition to government administrations and municipal administrations. Staff management is based on the post, with the exception that the bodies with special status define their basic number taking into account the budgetary framework available to them, and the government has no powers in relation to posts. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us contains solutions that will continue to reform the legislation governing the labour law conditions of public service officials, which started in 2018, and contribute to the unity of the Hungarian legal system. In view of this, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-09-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Secretary of State has indicated that he wishes to speak at a later stage in the debate. For your information, the designated Judicial Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. Two-minute speeches are not possible in these areas. I'm asking if anyone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés, here you are, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2019-12-09-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, To the amendments adopted by the Legislative Committee, I would like to say the following. According to the bill submitted, the Parliamentary Guard and the relations of civil servants employed by them would have been covered by the new legal status law. However, according to the amendment, the Parliamentary Guard is excluded from the scope of the bill. The original position and the original legislation remain. It is noted that the head of the special status body and its deputy are entitled to the additional leave provided for in the Act establishing the special status body. The bill laid down 15 days' additional leave, but since the rules on the posts and salaries of top professional managers have also been left out of the draft, we do not provide for supplementary leave here. The Day of Freedom Redemption will be 30 April 2020 instead of 31 December 2019. The amendment complements the bill by allowing the person concerned to be entitled to the statutory part of the leave for 2020 between 1 January 2020 and 30 April 2020 while from 1 May 2020 to 31 December 2020 he will be entitled to a pro rata period of basic and supplementary leave under the law. In the light of constitutional concerns, the restriction that bodies with special status subject to the law should only be allowed to operate a trade union whose members would only be selected from among persons employed in the bodies covered by the law. It is deleted from Annex 3 to the bill that the register of the Public Service Fund is part of the register of data relating to membership of the representation. Dear Parliament, As a final point, I would like to reiterate that with the bill on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them, the government intends to take another step towards family-centred employment. The bill before us will continue to regulate and establish rules on the management of the number of bodies that are similar to each other, taking into account in particular the characteristics of the bodies affected by the regulation. The financial recognition of employees of similar bodies and the greater appreciation of employees who have children and found their families are one of the main objectives of the bill. It should be stressed that, in addition to the pursuit of uniform rules, it should also be mentioned that the functioning of these bodies with special status is governed by separate laws, and therefore the legislative proposal has only established the most important frameworks. In view of the above, I would ask the Parliament to support the bill on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-09-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws concerning the functioning of Parliament and the status of Members and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. Máté Kocsis, Fidesz; László Böröcz, Fidesz; István Bajkai, Fidesz; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Csaba Hende, Fidesz; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; Gábor Bányai, Fidesz; Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Fidesz; István Happy, Fidesz; Csaba Nagy, Fidesz; Kristóf Szatmáry, Fidesz; Ádád Ádám Héjjj, Fidesz; Gábor Riz, Fidesz; Ferenc Koncz, Fidesz; Judit Czunyé Bertalan, Fidesz; Lász Salacz, Fidesz, Fidesz, represented by representatives. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of Parliament, rapporteur of the committee. Madam Major, you have the floor. [[13.00]]
u2019-12-09-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws concerning the functioning of Parliament and the status of Members T/8044. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 9 votes against. Dear Parliament, The proposal on the House's table aims primarily to clarify the detailed rules on a professional basis and to strengthen a closed and coherent system of procedures. In the light of recent events and the findings made by the European Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court and the Venice Commission in this field, it has become necessary to amend the system of disciplinary law, whose priority is to ensure the effective and smooth functioning of Parliament as a rule of law and to preserve the authority and dignity of Parliament. The proposal seeks to regulate the extent and degree of the sanction that can be applied for each conduct in a differentiated manner, in line with the gravity of the infringement. Following the example of foreign parliaments, the proposal intends to introduce the legal consequences of exclusion and banning. The excluded representative shall leave the meeting room immediately after the decision communicated to him in the oral manner and, if he fails to do so, he may be banned. The legal consequences of the ban will replace the suspension of the rights of representatives under the current legislation, but, unlike that, will only result in the suspension of the exercise of certain rights of representation linked to the physical presence in Parliament and its buildings. I would also like to mention that the proposal also provides for the institution of voting by delegation, according to which, during the open vote during the period of prohibition, a fellow Member may act instead of and on behalf of the banned Member. In the case of secret votes, the possibility of exercising personal rights remains. The proposal on the House's table sets out detailed provisions for the regulation of the absence of its representatives, together with the parallel amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the House, aimed at ensuring, in addition to guaranteeing the presence of its representatives, the quorum which constitutes the primary condition for the exercise of the tasks and powers of Parliament and its committees. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support this proposal in order to safeguard the effective, undisturbed and democratic functioning of Parliament and the dignity of this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-12-09-86	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. No two-minute speeches are possible. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-09-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, We are talking about a piece of legislation that is of such importance, as well as two draft pieces of legislation that we need to comment on at this stage of the debate. At the same time, I'll be brief. Obviously, on this issue, the two proposals had a very long, sort of marathon debate within the walls of the Parliament, and I would add that this debate was very long and detailed as usual in the Legislative Committee. Obviously, it is not a coincidence that this proposal, which was tabled suddenly, was also tabled by the party of the government, but the opposition parties also tabled 13 amendments showing a relatively serious consensus. However, none of these have been incorporated into the final proposal, which lies ahead of us, and this has raised serious concerns, so not only in the LMP faction, but also in all of the opposition political groups. I would like to talk a little bit about these amendments that have been tabled, and what are the amendments that we have kept to the vote for later ones. It was also quite clear in the general debate, and I myself drew attention to this, and also in the debate on the Legislative Committee, that it was not appropriate to explain the reasons that some pro-government Members had put forward this proposal. Here they talked about the authority of the Parliament and the preservation of the Parliament's working order. At the same time, the particular case to which my fellow members of the Government have presented this proposal in response has not been used, even in relation to those events, the existing options already in place in the house rule. So the Speaker, who, by the way, was in charge of that particular meeting, did not take advantage of the opportunities, and was actually just waiting for what would happen. It's definitely symbolic. Similarly, proposals and elements that have nothing to do with this have been included in this package of proposals. For example, the series of articles will be removed from the plenary session and will go before the Legislative Committee, or even restrict the control rights of opposition representatives. It has nothing to do with how, how, in Parliament, order can be maintained during the session. Here, during the long-term debate, we have drawn attention to a number of specific problems. Csaba Hende, representing the rapporteur, took part in this long-term debate, and at that time I specifically pointed out to him what points are of concern, so, where appropriate, they are an opportunity based on the legislation before us, which would make it very, very difficult or even impossible for Parliament to function properly. Finally, Csaba Hende here at the end of the debate in the afternoon practically said that he could not explain these points, and he could not repeat it, and he could not explain it at the Legislative Committee meeting. Then we and I personally came to the conclusion that if the authors accepted that there were problematic, flawed elements in the proposal, they would have to be removed or proposed amendments. These are the issues that opposition groups have tabled amendments, and I would like to go through them relatively quickly. By the way, I would like to refer to the fact that my fellow government Members have also tabled a number of amendments. Perhaps the most important of these is that, in the event of a certain ban, the transfer of voting rights should be transferred to the group leader, so if a representative is banned from a particular faction, such a mandate may be given to the group leader to cast the vote. However, there was no answer in the Legislative Committee to what would happen if the faction leader was banned or the faction leader was banned. So it is also a relatively common occurrence, or even the possibility of these two proposals, that this event can often occur. Amendments were made to the pro-government proposal concerning the notary function. We also drew attention to this during the debate that the notary of Parliament is not a policeman, so there is no reason to introduce it, so we have also tabled an amendment to this. But there are cases regarding the loss of the notary function that, if, if I remember correctly, two bans would prevail in the case of the notary of the Parliament, he would lose his function. We also consider this a completely unacceptable decision. There is a order and a way for someone to become a notary of the Parliament. I have already mentioned here that the possibility of Members of Parliament having access to different institutions is also limited by this proposal, so we should have prior consultation. It has been said many times in the debate, and I do not repeat that this is taking away the possibility of substantive control. The rules of absenteeism were also referred to by Mrs. It is also symbolic that, in most cases, Fidesz MEPs are more inactive, do not speak to them, may stay away from meetings, and there have been a lot of committee meetings, including my fellow Member, Mr Nacsa, where pro-government representatives did not attend a committee meeting, and therefore there was no possibility to hold a committee meeting. A lot of these cases could be classified. There is no solution in your proposal as to how to remedy this problem. There is no reason to change the rules of absence. The most serious measure concerns the banning of Members, as this would not only apply to the Parliament building, to the ban on this place, but also to other parliamentary buildings, Office building and so on. In fact, this makes it impossible for a Member who has a job in the field of employment to exercise these tasks, duties or, where appropriate, to prepare for a certain vote, such as, after consulting his colleagues and experts, which would otherwise be possible to be replaced. We do not see it in any way, and we have not received an answer from the rapporteur as to how, technically, this particular voting replacement could be established if, say, several Members of one faction were to be banned, it might be possible, where appropriate, to give a pro-government representative the right to vote. [[13.10]] Moreover, in the context of voting, a number of situations arise when there is a certain fork, and a vote determines a later vote in this respect. These concerns are certainly well founded, and that is why the opposition groups have maintained these proposals, 13 proposals. I therefore ask my fellow members of the Government to support these. What I can tell you, however, is that LMP will vote against these outrageous proposals. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-09-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Congressman Imre Vejkey if he would like to reply as rapporteur. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-09-89	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's disciplinary and police law is intended to ensure the smooth functioning of the legislation by means of legal instruments which basically help to maintain the order of plenary and committee meetings and sanction them in the event of a breach of order. Most of these licenses are in the hands of the President-in-Office of the House. The aim of disciplinary law is twofold: on the one hand, to ensure the smoothness of Parliament's work and, on the other hand, to preserve the authority and dignity of Parliament. The President of the Parliament is responsible for safeguarding and maintaining the authority of the Parliament. This power shall also be exercised by the Vice-Presidents in charge of the meeting. The mandate extends beyond the plenary session to committee meetings, to the maintenance of the Parliament and the Office. Ladies and Gentlemen, In almost a quarter of a century following the change of regime, disciplinary law was underregulated in Hungarian parliamentary law, so it was extremely timely at the time, in 2012 the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. the creation of a law that has made a significant change in the area of disciplinary law. In the parliamentary law, the possibility of reprimanding and reprimanding was preserved in such a way that the scope of sanctions was broadened and tightened simultaneously, allowing Members to be excluded from the meeting as punishment, as well as the reduction of the fee. Today, it has become necessary once again to review the existing legislation of the Parliamentary Act widely in order to preserve the sustainability and dignity of the functioning of Parliament. In the context of what our fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, has just mentioned, I would like to point out that we have discussed in detail the 13 amendments at the TAB meeting, and Mr Group Leader said that he has not received an answer to the question, even at the TAB meeting, about what if the group leader, to whom the excluded Members have given the mandate, has been commissioned to vote for them, what if he is excluded from the faction leader or any of the group leaders. What I can say, my fellow Member, is that the bill provides that the faction leaders must appoint a deputy group leader who can also carry out these representative rights. So what I can say is that in that case, the Deputy Group Leader appointed by the Group Leader is entitled to perform these tasks. Thank you for your attention, and please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-09-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a series of provisions on certain house rules 10/2014. Discussion of the Commission's reports and summary amendment proposal submitted for the amendment of the Decision. Máté Kocsis, László Böröcz, István Bajkai, Fidesz; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Csaba Hende, Fidesz; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; Gábor Bányai, Imre Csenger-Zalán Zsolt, István Happy, Csaba Nagy, Kristóf Szatmáry, Ádám Héjj, Gábor Riz, Ferenc Koncz, Bertalan Judit Cz, László Salacz, Fidesz, representatives submitted H/8042. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of Parliament, rapporteur of the committee. Madam Comrade, here you go.
u2019-12-09-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the provisions on certain house rules 10/2014. H/8042. A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 9 votes against. Dear Parliament, As with the establishment of the House Rule of Decisions, it is also a priority in its amendment to ensure that operating rules which are commonly applied in practice are in the form of provisions which are primarily raised to the level of house rules. In the spirit of better lawmaking, the proposal is intended to limit the possibility of speeding up the process of the Legislative Committee and also to allow it to maintain the amendments with changes in order to simplify the committee's decision-making process. In addition, the committee's tasks and powers will be extended by conducting the series of discussions and decisions, which aim to relieve the burden of Parliament's plenary session. The proposal aims to create relations that embody the will to vote expressed in the general election of Members of Parliament during the formation of a political group. This means that a representative who has obtained a mandate in the future can perform his mandate in the colours or independence of the party he has obtained from the voters. According to the amendment, therefore, the possibility of joining the Group subsequently will cease during the term of office of Parliament for a Member who has not participated in the formation of other political groups, who has resigned from or has been disqualified from a political group. It should also be mentioned here that the political group can only be formed by the same name as the nominating organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments in the proposal before us will only make it easier to apply them through the exercise of fuller representatives' rights without the functioning of the committees or the emptying of existing legal institutions for the control of the government. The proposal on the House's table provides an appropriate basis for ensuring the smooth, efficient and required functioning of Hungary's main representative body. In a rule of law based on democratic foundations, this is a particular constitutional interest. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-09-92	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Imre Vejkey that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or later. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Mr. President, I would like to speak at the end.]] Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr. Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State, if he would like to speak on behalf of the government.
u2019-12-09-93	Thank you very much, I would like to make a brief speech, Mr President. On the one hand, the government supports these motions, including the previous one. I'm sorry I pressed the button at the last minute when I couldn't get a word in. I would just like to say to Mr Lóránt Keresztes Lóránt LMP on this subject that, when he says that he says that it is a certain case, that is, the particular case that the two legislative proposals and the amendment are about, was an anarchist case, and that has not happened in the history of Parliament for decades. [[13.20]] 36 Members were punished for preventing the work of the National Assembly in ways that had not yet been done, and they behaved in a manner that was not only unprecedented, but I must say that if a school group did this wherever they were in school, they would be absolutely rightfully punished by teachers or directors. Or if someone in the country at work behaves like this, they would be absolutely right to resign. The recent restrictions are a step forward for everyone to think about how they behave in Parliament, how they honor this wonderful Parliament, in which, when guests come in, visitors come in, they all look at it with the eyes of the country's most prestigious house. These two proposals therefore serve this purpose, and I thank the authors very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee did not draft a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, with no two-minute speeches. I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey on behalf of the authors. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-09-95	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with what Mrs Mátrai said in detail on the amendment of the House Rule of Decision, and I do not wish to repeat it, but I would add it. And, of course, I also agree with what the Secretary of State Miklós Soltész, who spoke on behalf of the Government, said. Ladies and Gentlemen, National minimum. The national minimum is that Parliament must be given due respect. As Secretary of State said, citizens come here and give the Parliament respect. If the citizens give it to me, I think it should also be given to the Members who work here. And I consider that to be a national minimum. Those who do not give, I think, are unfit to be the representative of Hungary. There must therefore be no place in the Hungarian Parliament for so-called obscene speech, or for the presentation of obscene texts, or for aggression or provocation. Indeed, because of the above, there is a need for genuine sanctions, which are preventive, preventive, against unworthy and aggressive actions, and against further provocations. I trust it's H/8042. The proposal for a resolution, which is now in front of this House, will fill this preventive nature. I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2019-12-09-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to start with an open letter. - Your Honour, Mrs. Mayor. Dear Mr. Mayor, MÁV Start Zrt. From 15 December 2019, it shall amend the railway timetable. This new timetable significantly undermines the possibility of travelling on the 140th Szeged-Kecskemét-Budapest route. Twice a day, two intercity flights would not stop at the interstates, only on the Szeged-Budapest and Budapest-Szeged routes, without stopping. According to our information, the new timetable will not be withdrawn, but an experimental passenger count will be held until the middle of next year. This is completely unacceptable and incomprehensible to us. In protesting on behalf of the affected settlements, the Kecskemét Association, the Association for the Famous City, launched an online petition. At the moment, nearly 3,500 people signed it. This shows that we have to do something about it. On Tuesday, December 10, 2019 we will take the protesting signatures and messages of the outraged travelling public to Budapest. The flight leaves Szeged at 11:45. We would like you to take part in this move, or, if you are prevented, one of your deputies, thereby stressing the importance of the case. Kecskemét, 6 December 2019, 2019, I read this open letter because last week was the hearing of Minister Palkovics on the Economic Committee, where I asked him the question that thousands of people had already signed this petition about what they wanted to do, taking into account the indications of the thousands of people who came to work, students, or who want to travel from Szeged to Budapest, Budapest, to Szeged. The story is that this intercity train will be 19 minutes shorter, but it will not stop in any other settlements, such as Kecskemét and Kiskunfélegyháza, where it has stopped. This is totally unacceptable. Minister, of course, has indicated that there will be discharge flights, which means that they will launch fast trains, which will, in turn, stop in these settlements. The only thing they forget to say is that these flights will travel to Budapest Kőbánya-Kispest, they won't come to Nyugati Railway Station. And everyone knows that there is a subway renovation in Kőbánya-Kispest, and we can also hear that the renovation will be completed much later than originally planned, and you can take subway buses from Kőbánya-Kispest to the city centre. This way it takes a lot longer to get to the center than it would have been on the subway before, or if the train came in to West Station. I find the answer given by the Minister to my question unacceptable. He said they knew about the problem, he thanked me for the question, but this schedule will be in place for six months, and if in six months' time the claims that the passengers indicated or which I specifically suggested are confirmed, then the original schedule will be restored in six months' time. I find this outrageous, too, because every day anyone who uses MÁV's flights senses the problems that I have talked about several times here in interpellation, immediate question, post-scheduled speech or in comment to laws. And it's getting worse. And I find it outrageous that, although thousands of people are signaling this problem, who use these flights every day, the government does not care about it. It's gonna make six months of these people's daily commute so impossible that we know in advance that the things we've been signaling will work. I read this open letter so that tomorrow someone from the government would come to Budapest from Szeged and, of course, from Kecskemét and Kiskunfélegyháza, and listen to them. By the 15th, Sunday, the MÁV and the government still have time to withdraw this timetable, take the interests of passengers into account and finally prepare a timetable that is good for passengers. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-12-09-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, MEP László Hajdu, Democratic Coalition also applied for a post-the-meeting speech with the title of the then legally formed concept of Nagy-Budapest 70 years ago. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-09-99	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Part of my constituency extends over the territory of Újpest, so I thought I'd take the opportunity to speak after the agenda. Újpest is the northern gate of the capital. His modern history begins from the 1830s, when Count István Károlyi rented the area to winemakers. Vincellérek formed a mountain village called Újmegyer, and in 1840 there was an independent community organization with the introduction of industrialists and merchants. [[13.30]] It comes from the first judge or judge of the name New Pest, Lőwy lsák, who was a leather factory in the then settlement. The settlement was well suited for industrialisation because of its true geographical environment, due to the proximity of the capital city and the excellent transport connection. This is where the first Hungarian railway line between Pest and Vác passed in 1846. Timars, carpenters settled down, the development of the leather, textiles and furniture industry has increased its economic importance. By the end of the 1870s Újpest became the country's largest community of souls. In 1907 he ascended to the city, and his first mayor became the local patriot Dr. Gyula Jumpó. At this point, Széchenyi's initiative port was built, and with the help of the city-founding Károlyi family it had its own post office and hospital. Today, after more than a hundred years, Újpest is engaged in a determined struggle to reopen this hospital, which has recently been shut down. The city started to develop spectacularly. Fire house and slaughterhouse were built, paved roads appeared, illuminated with flashes, wired water, sewage, sewerage, but had police, court, and even theater. The manufacturing industry was rapidly built: leather production, carpentry and electric machine production employed thousands of workers. At that time, Izzo, today's Tungsram, Chinoin, Hungarian Cotton Industry Ltd. was founded. By 1910 it took the fourth place after Budapest, Bratislava and Timisoara in the line of domestic cities. World War I meant a further recovery of much of the industry. The administrative reform introduced in 1929 gave Újpest the title of county town. Its district court, electric power plant, savings bank, sports facilities, educational institutions, music schools, numerous registered associations, commercial units and 38 industrial companies, many of which are large. The Wolfner Leather Factory, Chinoin or the United Flamingo, were of national significance. We must not forget the people in need or the people with disabilities. Children's hospital, blind homes, poor houses, and social cuisine were also maintained. In 1945, in addition to the destruction and loss of war, the city was hit by a flood. By the end of the 1940s, nationalization took place here, as elsewhere in the country. The city lost its independence 70 years ago. The Act on Nagy-Budapest came into force in 1950, attached to the capital, and thus ceased to exist as an independent administrative unit. The population of Újpest still thinks back with nostalgia, they did not really accept that they belong to Budapest, although administratively this cannot be doubtful and legally, but Újpest is Újpest, and they very rarely use the word that they are residents of Budapest. Dear Parliament, The 130,000 inhabitants of Újpest, which had a population of 65 thousand when they joined Budapest, was actually the largest city of the connectors, with this story today as part of Nagy-Budapest. Thank you for listening.
u2019-12-09-100	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, Member of the Democratic Coalition, also spoke after the agenda with the title "The cause of human rights is not" - a beautiful band of men. You have the floor.
u2019-12-09-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Tomorrow, 10 December, we remember as World Human Rights Day that in 1948 the UN adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. There must be a lot of people in this room and outside the hall who yawn at the expression of World Day, Memorial Day; the mention of human rights means something that doesn't affect their abstract, everyday life. I have about four and a half minutes to make everyone realize that this is not the case, because there are few more current cases than human rights today. Basically, that's where the subject lies behind every public and political event. Human rights are the inalienable rights of all human beings, regardless of gender, race, religion, language, nationality, sexual orientation, wealth or political opinion. It is now widely understood as the recognition of many individual situations of human rights within the general framework of freedom and equality. Unfortunately, the situation today, gentlemen, and very few ladies, is that we are in a dramatically bad situation in Hungary with regard to human rights. I'll give you a list. How can we talk about the freedom of the press and speech when Lőrinc Mészáros, under the alias of Viktor Orbán, bought all the county newspapers, or when a major Fidesz-discovered article was removed? How can we talk about religious freedom when church schools benefit more than state aid? [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's not true!]] How can we talk about human rights in a place where we are bored with the term accessibility, for example, metro 3 cannot be used entirely by people with disabilities, or when the home care award is given for political tactical reasons and only for certain groups by the government? How can we talk about banning forced labour when, a year ago, a slave law has been passed to encourage the government to bring workers into worse employment? Can we talk about the freedom of education when the government drives away the internationally recognised CEU when Fidesz cancels the free textbook selection, or, for example, when they make it impossible for children with special needs to be educated? How can we talk about cultural freedom, equal access to culture, just when the government is today proposing to keep the theatres that are not in submission to it on a tighter leash? Government action against civil society organisations has already reached such a serious level that, as a result, Hungary has been subject to infringement proceedings. If a demonstration can be announced in accordance with changing rules, it is still possible to close whole parts of the city with hermetic reasons for visiting a foreign public guest, or to prevent protests in Kossuth Square with new and new monuments. Hungary is a country, ladies and gentlemen, which could starve refugees in transit zones for days. Do you understand? ! Starving people in the 21st century. In the century. With regard to human rights, we could talk about the bill for the incarceration of homeless people; about what the corresponding police protests cause, or about their expulsion from public areas. Gender equality is a dream in Hungary today, as if the MeToo movement did not exist, as if the government were not particularly interested in the fact that about a third of Hungarian girls and women aged 15 and over are affected by violence, sexual or physical violence during their lives. We don't hear any action taken against them. And don't let me tell you the story of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. On equal treatment, the Roma no longer dream of day-to-day racism. And last but not least, as an adult gay man, I should also mention the disenfranchisation of the LGBTQ community and its disadvantage in many areas. I could list the crimes and crimes of the Fidesz and the Orbán government against human rights until the end of the cycle. The Fidesz pretends to be some abstract, distant, liberal storytelling, as I gave the title to this speech: a beautiful band of gangs, as Viktor Orbán called human rights two years ago. However, the concept of human rights is neither abstract nor distant, it has nothing to do with this. Although I am honoured to be able to talk about the importance of human rights in my first speech, it is a shame that we have now come to talk about how the Hungarian Government violates these human rights in everyday life. Thank you very much for your attention. [[13.40]]
u2019-12-09-102	Dear Parliament, Also, after the agenda, Mr Philip Erik, an independent Member, asked for a stronger government action in the field of animal protection. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-09-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to draw a balance from the last 30 years.
u2019-12-09-104	Congressman, I need you to fix your microphone. I'll count the time frame. Try it because it's so confusing that radio listeners can't follow it. Thank you.
u2019-12-09-105	Excuse me, Mr. President, I'll try. It's a little heavy. [[He buckles up his microphone.]] Is that how you hear it?
u2019-12-09-106	Perfect! Here you go.
u2019-12-09-107	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to draw a political balance on animal protection over the last 30 years. Unfortunately, we must state that neither the Balliberal Government nor the Fidesz Government has dealt with animal protection and the rights of animals in a dignified way. This is why, unfortunately, the news about brutal animal cruelty continues today, not only on social media but also on various websites, and even to shock the people present, even in the late-night, early-night news of commercial channels, they can report brutal animal cruelty. The Hungarian Movement, of course, also advocates radical solutions in the field of animal protection, regardless of whether it is adequately managed by the left-wing governments or by the Fidesz government. We believe that we do have the rights of animals, for which we humans have to fight. As this area has not been properly regulated over the past decades, so as a form of social self-determination, defensive reflection, a very strong civilian base has been established in Hungary, with hundreds of animal-saving, animal-friendly and animal-protection associations, foundations and non-profit NGOs at the forefront of which there are tens of thousands of enthusiastic volunteers among them, who fight and fight every day for animal rights, and, of course, hundreds of thousands and even some estimates suggest that there are almost two million Hungarian citizens who call themselves animal-friendly, and that is why they want to do so for all these noble causes. I am very sorry that last year all 53 million HUF has been allocated to this area by the Hungarian Parliament under the title of animal protection, and the situation has not changed much more this year, as the Hungarian state is trying to reward the operation of these organizations by 69.7 million HUF. This amount, we can say, is extremely shocking and ridiculous, and it is almost not enough for anything, because these animal protection organisations, these tens of thousands of non-animal-friendly, these tens of thousands of volunteers who often do the work of the authorities, exposes the animal torturers, eliminates the breeding grounds, saves the animals who are in trouble, sick and injured, takes care of the hospital and, of course, subsequently adopt them. The Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian parties in Parliament do not embrace this very, very wide-ranging civilian base. Therefore, as an illustration and as a solidarity and stand for these organisations, I put on the T-shirt of one of the largest animal rescue and animal protection organizations, the "Fanners for Animals" movement. While the international trend is that animal protection laws are being significantly strengthened, animal police are being introduced in several countries, for example in the United States of America a high-weight federal crime against all animals, unfortunately this has been reversed in Hungary, as the current judicial practice attempts to curb cases of animal cruelty by ridiculous punishments. Not to mention that there is no legal consequence of depravity with animals. And I should also mention here that, astoundingly, illegal or semi-legal breeding establishments in Hungary are spilling thousands, tens of thousands of sick, injured animals, which are mainly sold abroad. The Hungarian Movement therefore urges a complete, comprehensive review of the Animal Protection Act, the Btk. We are initiating a tightening-up and, of course, we are going to propose an amendment to make animal lewdness a criminal case. And besides, we'd like to ban all breeding sites. I trust that Parliament will be a partner in this, and that all parliamentary parties will be associated with these initiatives. At the end of the day, allow me [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'm here to send a message from the benches of lawmaking to the courts. I would like to ask any judge who can judge animal welfare cases to be brave to stand up for the sense of justice of millions of Hungarians...
u2019-12-09-108	Congressman!
u2019-12-09-109	...and sentence the animal torturers to prison. Thank you.
u2019-12-09-110	Thank you very much. Be brave to keep the time frame. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-09-111	Mr President, Dear House, At the time of Advent, it is expected that a Member of Parliament should take a slightly different approach to social fate issues. That is why I regret the fact that a fellow Member of the Committee for the Amazing Calvary of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit even in the form of yellings... my fellow Member from KDNP called it last week, but there is a moratorium on eviction, why we are dealing with this problem now, when, in principle, there is a temporary exemption for victims. On the other hand, the big thing is that we have been alerted for another planned eviction this week, and according to this alert, now, at the time of advent, they would remove a family with a child from their own home, I add. [[György Szilágyi: Shame!]] which has been a legitimate user of the property in question for decades. And according to the latest enforcement and abuse techniques, these people, who, I stress, have been living in their own homes for decades, have been calling them arbitrary houseowners. In this way, they are excluded from the scope of the moratorium, as who would want to protect arbitrary homeowners in their rights. I would add that if someone is a real self-absorbed homeowner, takes away other property for use, I cannot and do not want to support it, but I ask myself that a family that has been legally using its own home for years, decades, and then an action of execution occurs in the middle of a dispute, and they want to remove these people from their own home, property, or property, for generations, as ordinary criminals. So this is where Hungary arrived in the year of the families and then in Hungary. And even more disgusting, even meaner technique may be when the executioner no longer goes out to the scene with the police army, but simply sends the new owner in his well-made suit, who knocks on a family that has lived in his legally used property for ten, twenty, thirty years, if any, and asks this new owner whether they want to leave this property in two or three days. Once again, these events take place during the eviction moratorium, happening today. No Member in this House can turn his head, pretend that these phenomena do not exist and are not part of our daily lives. And I have to say, as the host in a television studio this morning was surprised to see this happening in Hungary, often by blocking these news from everyday media consumers, we ourselves are surprised that Fidesz-KDNP has maintained such amazing abuses in Hungary. I have made two suggestions to alleviate this situation. One proposal concerns the extension of the eviction moratorium without a deadline. I want a real moratorium, where no one who's a law-abiding citizen can be kicked out of their home until this problem is solved. The Justice Committee voted last week to debate this issue at all in front of this House. The Fidesz majority of the Judicial Committee rejected the debate without debate and voted against by a two-thirds majority not even a polite abstention to debate the fate of these people at all in this House. The vote has since passed on this proposal. I would suggest to my fellow Members in Fidesz-KDNP that they check Jobbik's official Facebook page and look at the number of accesses and comments and comments related to your activities regarding their opinion that the Hungarian people reject the extension of the eviction moratorium. [[13.50]] But tomorrow you have the opportunity to correct it, even the day after tomorrow, because I have another proposal which seeks to stop the abuse of its executives. You know that a man who is in need of credit or eviction often tries to work. One of the ladies in our vicinity is taking inventory at night at a multi-company company, and with their little money, their salary, they're trying to take steps towards restoring their original status, regaining their lives. What happens next? One or more enforcement gangs come, respect for the exception, surely there is a fair one among them, but usually it is typical that 33 or 50 percent of this small income is lost, deducted, banned by these gangs and teams. Therefore, the point of my proposal is that the basic maintenance action, small pensions, income and salaries should not be subject to such bans. Not only am I asking, but I expect everyone in this House's help to make this idea a reality, that these people at least get the straw back in their lives, because life and hope belong to everyone, and that the future cannot be in opposition. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2019-12-09-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group, also came forward after the agenda, with the title "Deleted from the map." I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-09-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yeah, wiped off the map, that's how a lot of people in South Somogy feel in the periphery of that county that many people call the Transdanubian Peppers, and not by accident. Because the socio-economic devastation that this region has been through over the past decades is forecasting the sad fate of this region, this region. More things have ruffled the mood of the people living there, and please, my honourable pro-government fellows, not all serial frogs brought up the Dráván, tied up in mutton leather, the diversative plans that, say, were about the plan of the Nagyatád hospital, but this was a very serious, elaborate government work. So when the opposition press brought this to light, the people living there, the people living in Grandpa and the neighborhood, had every right to feel that this government wanted to wipe them off the map. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] In fact, the Calvary of this area would end if this very important institution were to be further crippled. At some point, at the end of 76 the hospital in Nagyatád opened its doors, with 702 beds, 800 employees, and then not only the current government, but also the previous government, made sure that something of this was carved down, since in 2007 the people living here were shocked with class closures, and then in 2012. Instead, hospice has been created, which is indeed very important, and the geriatrics have been developed, but this also anticipates the future fate of this region, since they would turn the entire South Somogy region into a bedrock, of which a large part of the people who live here thank you very much but do not ask for it. They want to live here, they want to thrive here, and to do so, this health institution, which really plays a very important role, will receive all the support it deserves, because the people who live here will work for it, and they will increase the budget with their contributions. On the other hand, what news is coming? Even though the mayor of the settlement, the opposition or independent mayor, asks that the Hungarian budget find a way to finance the outpatient care of the CT there, it is rejected. My amendment to the budget was rejected by the majority in favour of the government. And the written question I asked about this also came a meaningless answer; go to Kaposvár, Toponár, the CT there, and, where appropriate, to the citizens of Nagyatád, but wait weeks, if appropriate months, for this examination to be completed. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] It's an inhumane attitude, and we don't accept it. There is no rational explanation for this, because if they say that they cannot support this legitimate claim because of a lack of resources, then it must be said that this is a net lie. In the country in which Viktor Orbán's hobby, football, could be beaten almost HUF 800 billion between 2011 and 2018, he rejected such a mayor's and citizen's claim to finally get the right CT scans in Nagyatád, and this should not only apply to hospital patients, it is indeed a very, very extreme, inhuman attitude. Thus, at the time of Advent, I can only ask my fellow members of the Government to have a little humanity, to pay attention to the complaint of the South Somogy region, and to find a way to get the benefit of this modern imaging diagnostic tool, not only for bed-patients, but also for those poor, old, sick, retired people living in small villages in the area, who really feel the need to heal, because they want to spend a few more years, say, spending with grandchildren, possibly in health and sickness. But if this goes on, then this will remain a dream, and the citizens of Grandpa and the neighbourhood will rightly continue to ask you, my fellow members of the Government, why they are not paying attention to them, why they are rejecting these requests. I would like you to think about these things in this way, in the Advent period, and give what is due to this region. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2019-12-09-114	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meeting speech with the title of the Year 2019. You have the floor.
u2019-12-09-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The question behind me is, what was this year 2019. We can soon find out what the year was like in political terms, because at the end of each year it may be worth a summary, an account of what happened that year, what was politically wrong, or what was going well; what were the more interesting events; and what trend, yet what kind of public movement can be drawn out of them. The year 2019 started very hot and weatherally cold in political and historical terms. The heat was the continuation of a series of demonstrations that could be dated after 11 December 2018 and which were public events surrounding the adoption of the slave law and the law. Right in the first days of the year, we have lived the aftersound of Members who may all remember, fellow Members, but also TV viewers and video viewers tried to get into MTVA and enforce their voice, the public institution to which they were unfortunately never invited to express their own views. There was no possibility for opposition representatives to appear in another way. But the protests continued, and the January was basically about a united response to a government's extremely flawed legislation, a legislative proposal and a bad approach, not only from the parliamentary parties, but also from a large part of society as a whole. Then came another similar case, where it was not the MTVA, but the MTA, so the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, because the government tried to solve a question with strength again, which should have been resolved with much more sense than with the voice of the profession. There was nothing here but the unthinkable dissipation of Hungarian scientific life. We all know that one of the consequences after the destruction of the research networks of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences or the attempts to do so has been to leave Hungary by dozens of scientists, and to look elsewhere for research sites and research areas, which would indeed be here in Hungary. Of course, we can open a debate on how to make the Hungarian research network and research and development effective, but it cannot be done from strength, from above, as we have unfortunately been used to. It also had an interesting event, and we could learn the opposite lessons from it, the two choices that we held this year, the European Parliament elections and the municipal elections, each with different omens according to the taste of their mouth. One thing is certain, it is clear from the data that the Hungarian electorate is becoming more and more active, more and more attentive to what is happening in the country, and more and more involved in local decisions, especially the municipal elections, which serve to shape their lives. It was an interesting topic, and it also shows what the year 2019 was like, the case of rent apartments in the castle. [[14.00]] This is a very small slice, but it fits very well into the bubble created by the government and government media. Here, there were tenants for basically low wages, not only with luxury restaurants from luxury companies, but also very often with a government role, even with a ministerial position, or just people of trust serving political power. The next great march of the year, which has been accompanying us for years, has been a tragic state of health care and a series of studies. In fact, since spring, there has not been a month that has not come up with a devastating report about Hungary, which has not been produced by organizations that have come close to us or us with bad intentions, but by international research workshops that have produced international comparisons based on Hungarian data, on which the sad results that they show cannot be carried out. My fellow Members, perhaps even video viewers, are aware of the fact that a town the size of Szekszárd is dying in Hungary only so that their deaths could have been avoided if health work properly, we are talking about 38 thousand of our countrymen. However, similar data have also come up with the worst indicators of cancer in Hungary at EU level. In fact, Hungary is at the end of the list that we have to spend the most of our own pockets on health spending, so that we can make up for what the state does not pay. Thus, overall, and the continuation of this speech will be tomorrow, we can see that there have been a great deal of problems in public life. One problem was a violent government policy on the ground, and the other was that this violent or settled policy refused to hear the real problems that should have been dealt with. The answers, such as the Borkai case, have come to light; but to discuss them later, tomorrow, thank you very much for your attention today. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-09-116	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Péter Hoppál, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for a post-meeting speech on the anti-democratic turn in the practice of the Pécs and Hop opposition leaders. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-12-09-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The municipal elections took place on 13 October, after which the local government of Pécs County City was established at the seat of Baranya County on 31 October. Komlón was not able to hold a municipal board meeting so quickly, as the opposition attacked the results, the election result and had to be repeated in a polling district. The result of the rerun was also attacked, but the court no longer gave me the opportunity to do so. Thus, the body of representatives could finally be formed there on 5 December. I would like to give an overview to the National Assembly of the fact that organisations who set themselves up for civil society in both cities, according to the same scenario, have already started as well-known local political faces in the elections in civil society, how their teeth have been shown protein in the inaugural session or shortly thereafter. In the city of Pécs, the All-Pécs Association has already broken down into party factions in the inaugural session, so the mask of civility has fallen in the inaugural session. It turned out that their anti-democratic senses were much stronger than what they promised during the election. So already at the inaugural session, they proved that they basically wanted power and did not show any democratic sense in this exercise of power. What exactly happened? In the amendment of the SZMSZ, the General Assembly of the Municipality of Pécs County decided by opposition majority that the opportunity to comment before the agenda had ceased. I am asking the majority of Parliament and the minority, the opposition, if anyone sees this as a democratic instrument. In addition, the Vice-President of the Commission was terminated. Until now, when the opposition has not won a single district in the city of Pécs in recent cycles, the majority of the governor has assured the opposition that it has been able to delegate vice-presidents to all committees. This has now been removed and the role of vice-president of the minority pro-government representatives has been removed. In addition, the leading president, the mayor, in Hungarian, made the new amendment possible to participate in the debate. This was a democratic norm that the President-in-Office of the Council, who had not previously participated in the debate. Even László Toller himself and the later mayors respected this regulation. The new mayor already got this thrown out of the U.S.U.S. In addition, the opposition majority in Pécs strongly said that the city, in contrast to the transfer and transfer protocol signed by the mayor, which states that the city has reserves of billions of dollars, some believe that it has a reserve of over 4 billion, or over 7 billion, and that the new mayor of Pécs has already crossed out his signature a week after the takeover that there is a shortage of tens of billions and that the city is on the verge of bankruptcy. At the same time, in Pécs, on the brink of bankruptcy, fabulous lawyers' due diligence fees were offered and millions of items, sometimes millions or tens of millions of items, will be pocketed by law firms close to the city's management. For the record, the campaign promised the mayor, who is now mayor, that this screening will be free, it won't cost the Pécs money. This, too, seems to have been a lie. In addition, the final remark is that their own salary was raised at the inaugural session and thereafter. Thus, the Commission's participation and participation in the Commission's presidency are today rewarded with a much higher salary by today's majority opposition political forces than it has been for the last ten years during the Fidesz city leadership, with the then local government honors. In other words, while political cleansings are being conducted, not only institutional and corporate leaders are being replaced, but also rapporteurs, while raising their own salaries. It didn't turn out any differently in Komlo. There, according to the practice of being a deputy mayor alongside the mayor of the city, the Fidesz mayor is now forced to become two sub-Mayors, and very elegantly the Commission President and Group Leader's salary of 80,000 so far, which the Fidesz decided earlier in 80,000 forints, is now raised to 300 thousand forints. So both Komlón and Pécs, while increasing their own salary, the municipal downfall into a political paying place is taking place, at the same time we see an anti-democratic turn. Let's hope the voters can see that, too. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-09-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed.
