u2019-11-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of you and all of you who are monitoring our meeting today. The 11th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mr Vinnai and Mr László Varga will be present as notaries for my assistance. Today we have a debate on legislative proposals. A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of individual laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures will follow until closure. Government referral T/8016. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Minister for Justice Judit Varga, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. I'll ask Madam Secretary if you'll get up on the stand or tell me where you're going. [[Dr. Judit Varga: I'm tired, thank you very much.]] We'll wait for Madam Secretary to get up on the stand. I'll have a glass of water, please, Minister. Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
u2019-11-20-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'm a little embarrassed to be standing in front of you right now, because as the Attorney General, this is the first time I've ever been able to express myself. Since 2010, my office predecessors have done a great deal of work to renew the legal system. At the time of Tibor Navracsics' ministry, our codes of substantive law, the Civil Code and the Criminal Code were renewed, and László Trócsányi presented codes of civil order, general administrative order, administrative procedure and prosecution in the House. For the fourth time in a year, the Parliament has dealt with the issue of administrative justice. Professor Trócsányi presented the bill on administrative courts last November and the bill on transitional arrangements for its entry into force. Independent administrative justice has had a long-standing historical tradition in the Hungarian legal system. The Hungarian Royal Administrative Court was dismissed by the Communist dictatorship because its operation was too closely linked to the maintenance of the rule of law. On this basis, the aim of establishing a separate administrative court system would have been to strengthen the rule of law. Although the government would have been open to the conduct of these disputes, the criticisms of the public administration's judicial body ceased after the deferral. Public confidence in the impartiality of justice is more important than the government's own justice. Furthermore, the judges and judicial staff working in the court organisation found themselves in a very precarious situation: they did not know when and with what result these debates would end. They could not, therefore, know what kind of court organisation, what level of judgment they would have to judge. Today, the findings made by Boldizsár Horvát in connection with the operation of the justice system have been valid for a century and a half. However, we cannot allow the uncertainty about the judicial organisation and the opposition's campaign of administrative justice, which lists claims which are not due to the standard text adopted, to jeopardise the functioning of justice. Even the National Assembly of so-called People's Democracy acknowledged that the concept of a rule of law includes a system of public-law jurisdiction in which the decision of public-law disputes between public authority and seekers falls within the competence of a judicial body outside the executive power. Although this was not meant to be praised by the Communist power, it can be said that administrative justice is a basis for a rule of law. We believe that the legitimacy and integrity of the judicial organisation, the judicial independence, is an unquestioned core of the rule of law. From the outset, the government's aim was to develop administrative justice as a judicial activity, and its only obvious instrument, supported by historical and international examples, would have been an independent administrative court organisation. Our goal remains the same: professional, professional, professional law enforcement, therefore rapid and effective administrative justice. The government has examined how this objective can be achieved with the least financial effort, as quickly as possible. According to the bill under discussion, we maintain and even strengthen the unity of the single court organisation. The proposal eliminates special courts: administrative and labour courts are therefore terminated. In the future, labour litigation will be assessed by the courts and the evaluation of administrative litigation will fall within the competence of the eight courts with administrative colleges. They are based on the seat of administrative and labour courts with regional jurisdiction. I note that the development of the regional competence of the KMBs by applying the rules of procedure of the administrative procedure has already improved the quality and speed of the case with the possibility of specialisation. The central tasks of the administration of the single court organisation will continue to be carried out by the President of the National Court Office, and the Minister of Justice will not have any role in it, and Parliament has no responsibility. The bill does not affect the administrative model. The selection of judges will take place in a uniform tender order as defined in the Act on the Status of Judges, there will be no special rules for the selection of administrative judges, for the publicity of the tendering procedure or for the redress against the outcome of the tender. The judicial organisation is significantly simplified by the bill. In the future, court courts, tribunals, courtboards, and the Curia will judge. However, on the basis of the experience of administrative litigation, further simplification of the forum system is justified. The proposal sets out rules of competence and procedure which ensure both the possibility of specialisation of administrative judges, the size efficiency and the realistic opportunity for the parties to bring their case to the Curia in all administrative cases. Dear House, In the course of the procedural reforms launched in 2014, the Government has already set itself the objective of making the shortest possible period of time between the opening and initiation of the administrative procedure and the judgment at the end of the administrative trial, i.e. to enable customers to reach a decision with substantive powers as quickly as possible. In view of this, the general administrative procedure also regards administrative litigation as a means of redress. Since 2018, a large part of the types of cases could already be brought after a single administrative procedure. Experience has shown that in these cases the gross duration of cases has been shortened and the procedures have accelerated. The Akr. The proposal does not bring about any change in its review system which is of principle when it provides a direct judicial path against district decisions rather than an appeal. In addition to the termination of the appeal, the proposal also contains a pre-trial solution to increase procedural efficiency: the defendant's administrative body must send the documents to the court via its supervisory body. The supervisory body shall then have the opportunity to remedy the infringement of the application. This solution is also capable of bringing matters to a faster conclusion. This change also called for a review of administrative rules and a number of sectoral legislation, which will be carried out by the proposal. Dear Parliament, I would like to address the second issue in more detail about the renewal of the Curia's case-law uniting tool system. When I was working at an international law firm, I heard from a German lawyer:, vor Gericht und auf hoher See ist man in Gottes Hand. Which means we're in the hands of God in court and at sea. [[9.10]] Would the case law of the courts be so fateful? Would it be erratic and unpredictable, like the sea? It's all about providence. What judgment does the court give in our case? If you ask the man on the street, you will agree with the German voice, and with examples from the press, you will confirm that the practice of the courts is sometimes unpredictable. Legal certainty is a fundamental and unavoidable conceptual element of the rule of law, which also requires predictable and coherent case-law. Because legal certainty means, above all, that citizens have reason to trust the stability of the legal system. I deliberately did not mention the stability of the legislation, because we must trust that the court will not deviate from the previous decisions of the Curia unless there is a very strong reason for that. I was talking about the stability of the legal system because, as the Constitutional Court has already stated in an early decision, the Constitutional Court must not compare the norm in itself, but the prevailing, effective and effective norm, i.e. the living right with the content of the provisions of the Constitution and the constitutional principles. According to this Decision, the constitutionality assessment must be based on the fact that the content and meaning of the legislation is what the constant and uniform application of the law attaches to it. In other words, the standard described is not the real law in itself, but the norm with the content as applied and interpreted by the courts. It follows from this that stability is also required against the interpretation of the law in the judgments, i.e. it is not possible to have judgments based on a completely conflicting interpretation of the law in the same situation and in the same regulatory environment. Or do you think that there is legal certainty in a country where the legal argument in our case depends on which judgmental council it comes before? As I have just demonstrated, a fragmented, possible case-law violates legal certainty and is clearly incompatible with the right of the parties to a fair trial. In fact, if there were to be a different judgment in two cases in addition to the same facts and legislation, equality before the law could be violated. This cannot happen in the rule of law. I would like to remind this House that the Curia, as defined in Article 25 of the Fundamental Law, ensures the unity of the application of the law of the courts. And the courts interpret the Fundamental Law and the law within the limits laid down by Article 28 of the Fundamental Law, so that we ultimately learn from their judgments what content the judges attach to the various laws. In an early decision of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court stated that legal certainty required that the text of the law be of sound and clear norm, which can be recognised in the application of the law. This item also means that the caselaw relating to the norm, that living law, must be clear, even consistent and uniform. How, though, can the unity of the application of the law be ensured? According to foreign experience, the answer is quite simple: consistent jurisdiction. The Curia must enforce its established practice in its redress procedures, i.e. the lower courts are obliged to follow the interpretation of the Curia's law. In this way, it can be ensured that, on the same factual basis and in the same regulatory context, the legal issue is primarily the same as in the case of argument. You can say that there is nothing new here, because this is one of the constitutional tasks of the Curia, but this practice can and must be strengthened. The common case law, which is consistent with the Basic Law, is primarily ensured by the binding force of the Curia's decisions, because the result can be obtained quickly in the course of the appeal. The limited precedent system, which was originally published in Anglo-Saxon law, but also increasingly covers continental legal systems, is a constitutional, rapid and effective means of ensuring a legal unit. This is because later courts are obliged to adapt their decisions to the interpretation of the law laid down in the earlier judgment of the higher courts or courts of the same level in a similar case. Before anyone makes reference to university textbooks prior to the change of regime, allow me to draw attention to the fact that, as a dowry from Britain, this principle has already been published in Hungary in the European Union: the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union are part of Community law, and that body is also responsible for ensuring uniform application of EU law. According to national and foreign literature, precedent justice ensures stability, predictability and unity of law, thereby reducing the possibility of arbitrary decision-making on individual cases, as it imposes a so-called obligation of certification on the court. This means that the court must take account of the rules established in its previous practice and state the reasons for not applying them or in different ways. The decision on the binding power of previous decisions should be made between a number of competing considerations in many cases and take into account the different legal and actual circumstances that vary with each case. Therefore, earlier decisions may be derogated from in justified cases by rational reasoning, so that older legal provisions can be renewed. This practice leads to increasingly subtle distinctions, more precise interpretation criteria, and fills the abstract provisions of the legal system with a step-by-step content. The reasons for this derogation may, for example, be as follows: when assessing a specific case, there is a new historical circumstance or knowledge that raises doubts about the applicability of the previous rule; there are new economic and political conditions that make it impossible to apply the rule further on a continuous basis; the facts changed during the period from the previous decision; the existence of trust, i.e. reasonable expectation of the previous decision, to maintain the decision. Other aspects of the decision can help, for example, the age of the previous decision, which may also be the reason for its confirmation and overrulement. The published decisions of the Curia should therefore have a special role to play, since the application of previous decisions can also contribute to increasing legal certainty as a result of predictability. In the course of scientific lectures, the judges of the Curia acknowledged seven years ago that the importance of case law also increased in the field of criminal justice. The case-law of the Constitutional Court and the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights have an impact on the practice of ordinary courts. The review of the decisions of the Supreme Court shows that while there is almost no reference to any other case-by-case decision in the decision of the Supreme Court before 1990, this is already present in one-fifth of the decisions after a decade, and even today the number of references in criminal matters is increasing. However, the case law of the upper courts appears in the legal texts as a source of legal certainty. In fact, because of the ease of access, the parties' submissions also increased the references to ad hoc decisions. They justify that the court react to them in its decision in the case concerned. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Under the proposal, the courts are obliged to follow the interpretation of the Curia's law. However, the provision is without prejudice to the personal independence of the judges or the chambers acting. In order to ensure this, the bill allows for a derogation from the interpretation of the Curia if it is necessary to comply with the circumstances of the case or with the Basic Law. Such a derogation shall be given by the determining judge or by the Council. It should be possible for the parties to dispute the merits of the derogation, in particular by means of ordinary and exceptional remedies provided for in the laws on criminal, civil and administrative proceedings. In the event that the parties no longer have a means of redress because they have been exhausted by the party or are excluded from the use of such means, the bill provides for a complaint as a new means of redress. In the legal unit complaint procedure, the Boards of Complaints, composed of judges of the Curia, shall act solely on the motion for review of one of the parties and in the adversarial procedure. I do not share the concern of those who see the independence of judgment being undermined by the fact that the judge has to justify his departure from the known practice of the Curia, why he is putting aside the living right. The judge may decide in the case before him not to follow the case law of the Curia. The parties and their submissions are already discovering the argument, the cases, the facts, such as living law, and they are being checked and supplemented by the judges today. The judges are still reflecting on the parties' references, and they can only do so in the reasons for their decisions and even do so. If, in similar cases, different courts, or even worse, different case-laws of the same court make different decisions without convincing justification, then the case-law will soon be considered unpredictable and arbitrary. Anyone who does not understand that the obligation to justify a derogation from the practice in Curia increases the authority and legitimacy of judges is likely to misunderstand the principle of judicial independence. In each case, the case law decides, explains, resolves conflicts, settles interpretation issues within the framework of the Fundamental Law and the legislation. It's all in case law. The point is that the legal unit is created by the judicial decision sooner or later, at the request of the parties, of the parties to the specific litigation. [[9.20]] Dear Parliament, As Minister of Justice, I can speak very carefully about what kind of judge we have. A century and a half ago, within the walls of the House of Representatives, there was an ember debate about the bill on the exercise of judicial power. Allow me to quote from the comment of Mór Jókai in forty-eight: "We all desire what is set out in the bill before us. We desire that we have good judges, that the judge may be just a judge, and that he should not be occupied with other matters to which there are two separate moods and separate careers. We also wish that the judge should be independent, responsible; we wish that the court course should be a sure course, well paid, respected, and that the judge should be above all parties. " The rules of judicial conflict of interest and guarantees of judicial independence were established decades ago. We have only one debt on this issue: ensuring a well-paid judicial career. Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that I am initiating the submission of a Commission amendment to the Judicial Committee in order to pay off an old debt. The judges' overall wage arrangements last took place a decade and a half ago. Hungary's good economic performance gives us the opportunity to pay the judges' salaries after 2004 in such a way that they can receive a decent remuneration corresponding to the weight and importance of the profession. The fair remuneration of judges is not just about the amount of their salary, but also a guarantee of judicial independence. As a basic principle, we set the salary of judges and prosecutors at different levels of payment at court level. In addition, the proposal takes into account the exceptional responsibilities of judges and prosecutors, the number of years spent in the profession and the professional experience gained during that period. Taking all this into account, and following intensive consultations with stakeholders, the National Court of Justice, the High Prosecutor's Office and the Judges' organisations, I can announce that the salaries of judges and prosecutors will increase at three paces from 2020. On average, judges' salaries increase by 32 percent in 2020, while prosecutors' salaries increase by 21 percent. As a result, the salaries of the two courts will be the same next year. After that, the salary of judges and prosecutors will increase equally by 12 percent in 21 and 13 percent in 22. Dear Parliament, In view of what has just been said, I would like to ask for the discussion and adoption of a bill amending certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-20-2	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr István Vitányi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Madam Secretary, I do not want to be repeated, because the Minister has given a very detailed description of the substance and substance of the bill before us, so I would like to contribute only a few thoughts to the adoption of the proposal. As the rapporteur put it, the proposed amendment will continue to achieve the objectives set out in the concept of general administrative law, the main aim of which is to allow the shortest possible time between the opening of the administrative procedure and the taking of a substantive final judicial decision in it. The law takes into account the primary requirement for final settlement of administrative matters and the requirements laid down by the Fundamental Law. The Akr. Since its entry into force, on the basis of the available data, the proportion of the decisions taken by the authorities against the appeal has remained small in most areas, while 20-25 percent of the decisions in the second instance have been brought by the parties to an administrative action. On this basis, it is appropriate to establish a single administrative procedural model as a result of a review of the system of remedies relating to district and district official procedures. The effectiveness of the redress system can only be ensured if the forum system for administrative litigation is simple and transparent. In addition to simplicity and transparency, uniform case-law, and consistent with the Basic Law, is also the first requirement to be ensured by the binding force of the Curia's decision; accordingly, the courts are obliged to follow the interpretation of the Curia's law. Ladies and gentlemen, The amending proposal seeks to introduce a new means of redress, the institution of the so-called unit of law complaint, in the event that the parties no longer have a further remedy because they are exhausted by the party or are fundamentally excluded from the use of such instrument. The amendments in the draft submitted have, inter alia, eliminated administrative and labour courts. On the basis of the proposal, the place of law of the district court may act as the department of the district court in the future, led by a judicial staff member and team leader. The manner in which cases are distributed between the district court seat and the place of law must be recorded in the case distribution system. If the place of service of the Judge is a district court whose department is governed by law, the Judge may, in accordance with the order of division of the case, carry on his activities at both the seat of the district court and at the place of law, except in certain cases specified in the law. Dear House, A significant part of the amendments are terminological-technical, their aim is to ensure the coherence of sectoral laws and the law on administrative litigation; for example, the use of an expression which can be challenged in an administrative case instead of. It should be noted that, following the amendment, the closed handling of the data may be requested or ex officio if, on the basis of the same historical facts, the client or other party to the proceedings, in any other judicial or administrative proceedings which are final or definitively closed or in parallel, orders the closed handling of his natural identity and address. Dear Parliament, Overall, it is therefore a proposal for an amendment containing very significant changes, which also addresses a number of legal issues. On the basis of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal. I would ask my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you for listening. [[To the intervention of Gyula Molnár:]] But it was nice to hear them talking, and there was nothing to understand. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-20-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman, if you have a problem, you can do so in the form of a point of order. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: He said he supported it.]]
u2019-11-20-5	Dear Parliament, The lead speaker for the Jobbik Group is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-20-6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Although my Fidesz fellow Member said that the draft law, consisting of 249 sections and an inexorable amount of annexes, was very detailed, 19 minutes, as I have seen, are not enough to describe in detail such a package of legislation, but it can be said about this package of legislative proposals, that this legislative tsunami, which lasts nine years, is the picture of it in the legislation. In this legislation, it is not just a matter of making a new institutional change in administrative procedures and their review, but it is full of at least half of the 249 sections, if not the elimination of more coherence problems, the unification of the names of legal institutions and many legislative proposals that have nothing to do with the fact that over the last nine years this package of legislation has been an unthinkable, idea-like, complete confusion for practitioners, a sort of purification of this system in the sea of legislation that this package of legislation is trying to resolve. Let me just say that the Government also submitted this package of laws around 0.00 a.m. on November 12, 2019, with 34 other legislative proposals, which amends 78 laws in 249 paragraphs and many annexes, which I think is unacceptable because it is impossible to prepare even with experts to take a sound, well-founded resolution in detail in the light of the examination of every piece of legislation that needs to be changed. [[9.30]] In fact, in these cases, experts raise their hands and say that I will not do it, I will not stop, because it is impossible, in all this time, to present a professionally founded opinion along with the other legislations. These legislative mechanisms, which you are doing, serve nothing but to present political texts here rather than substantive professional debates. When it comes to administrative... oh, I love it so much when Happy István says the word profession. [[Happy István: Yes, because I have a profession! The president's ringing the bell.]] So when it came to setting up administrative courts, and there was still such a miracle that there was consultation before the portfolio, although after the submission and not before, one of the arguments of the Vice-President of Parliament and the President of the Legislative Committee was that I wanted to form administrative or administrative procedures of one degree, and at least two degrees of legal redress was necessary to satisfy the needs of law-seeking citizens, was the answer to my question, but I stress: I have always been against the fact that the judicial path has become the same in administrative proceedings, since the judges have become complacent, they knew that the decision of the court can be reviewed with a much more restrictive exceptional remedy, so that I was never a friend of the court, when I asked what made this change of approach is, then the Vice-President of Parliament said that they saw that people who took part in the second degree of the administrative system could not be technically reliable, and therefore I was never a friend of the court when I asked for a judicial remedy in the first instance, because it was a better guarantee in the judicial system, because the vice-president of Parliament said that they saw that they were not responsible. The only interesting thing was that the same law on the establishment of administrative courts opened up the possibility of becoming a judge to those working in the public administration to such an extent that I was shocked. Because in one sentence it was said that public administration workers are not reliable about professionally sound decisions, but the same people can easily come in after five years of practice, even if they are court leaders, who are otherwise unreliable professionally to be able to make appropriate second-degree decisions. So I brought this image here because, as uncertain and completely free of logic, it was the proposal for a bill and then the vote, just as it is creating a whole new institutional system in this system, apart from district offices, there will be separate administrative judicial action, and it will actually create a parallel organizational system, which I tell you honestly do not understand. So I would be happy that, when the debate is about to take place here, and fortunately, the Minister is here with the Secretary of State, then do it, so that she does not explain this motivation to create this kind of institutional system, but to tell us a little bit about where it started, why this solution mechanism, that they think that it will work better than before, that we need huge restructurings here again, that we need workers from here or from somewhere, who will then judge to let us see a little more about this issue. I would be very honored by the Minister or even the Secretary of State, because the Secretary of State may have already been involved in the process of drafting this proposal, so that we can understand a little more what the intention is here. This proposal, however, has a positive one, and this is a modified way of organising the judges' wages. One day, my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, was discussing the impossibility of making it impossible for prosecutors in a normal democratic country to have a higher wage than judges, and there is an extremely low salary for judges on the European stage, so we welcome everything about the fact that the remuneration of judges is truly European and at least fit into the wage conditions that are now in the public sector, especially at ministerial level or at the level of ministries, or higher public authorities than wages. So I would not like to make any criticism in this regard, because if we are going from one to two on this issue, that is good. Another question is, if we go into the details of this, we'll find anomalies. Another issue is that the judges are satisfied with this, because the judges somehow do not tell us what they want, which I think is a little bad for us, because many times we feel that we Members of Parliament are better on their side than they would do anything to inform us and to be able to help them with the case-law problems, whether in their own personal way or in their wages. He says the general justification for the bill was that the number of official decisions against the appeal was less than half a percent. So, in the first instance, 99.5 percent became final, which is no wonder, because there is an inexorable amount of applications, which are naturally granted, because personal issues, official certificates, so the system of administration is so high that first-rate decisions remain in place, because they are positive about issues that are not allowed by the law, but only positively. Then the following sentence is that 20-25 per cent of appeals will be brought before the court following the decisions challenged by the appeal after the second instance procedure. This means that up to 25 percent of 0.5 percent will be subject to judicial review, and although we do not know exactly how many procedures will begin in the public administration system in a year, it is certainly not small, but 25 percent of the half is still only 0.125 percent. I just wanted to say that I think that this bill or this new idea should not be defined or decided on the basis of numbers, not the number of proceedings or the results of the proceedings, but on the basis that it is necessary or not to have this type of legal institution; whether it was harmful for society to have a two-degree administrative procedure and only a single degree of legal remedy, the result of which served to seek social rights or not. I would rather have liked this issue to have been discussed either in writing in the reasoning of the bill or in the oral submission, whether there was some kind of statistics, study, polling, some feedback from society, that it had been in progress so far, and I stress that it was not in my taste that the administrative procedural and review system was in line. For us, Jobbik, this proposal is still open in terms of whether we will support it, simply because we do not want to give our vote to something that does not work either now or later. It is very difficult to judge today whether the new ideas in this proposal will work, because, as I said, we do not really have any data on them, we do not really know the real reasoning system, and we do not know the assessments of the living conditions that I stress in this respect, and I am not talking about judicial wages today. That's why I don't know if our faction will vote for this or even abstain from it. In any case, I would like to add that it amends 78 laws in this legislative package, about ten of which have been amended for some other reason in recent weeks. [[9.40]] What I would like to ask you is that, when it comes to being created, there will be requests from either the Ministry of Justice or from any co-wallet to amend a piece of legislation for some reason, it is not possible, say, to collect needs in a few months, and not to discuss, for example, an amendment to the tax law at 8:00 a.m., even at 10:00 a.m., another package of laws, or the legislation on the rules of taxation will be amended for some reason in a legislative package on Tuesday, and we will talk about the same thing on Friday. The legislative law stated that the same conditions of life or the same legislation or related legislation could be amended in a salad law, but could not the same legislation be amended every day by any other package of laws? Even because it would be good for people in case law not to have to look at the law every single day to see if the law he used changed today compared to yesterday, because it changed last week and changed the week before. Legal uncertainty causes some terrible frustration, it is essential for society to make welfare difficult, and uncertainty also reduces creativity and working ability. I would ask Fidesz, after it is likely to govern for another two and a half years, to do so after the past nine and a half years, to start the legislation if it is to maintain this tsunami at all costs, so that it is somehow possible not only for the lawyers but also for the citizens and the people in the offices to be a little more followed, because I must say that this kind of uncertainty in the administration system results in decisions being taken, they are slow, they are slow, they are slow, at least on a slightly more complicated issue, they are slow; and the other, that the one who feels that the law must be applied, that he is not in control of the work, can not deliver the performance that he expects of himself, and that frustration can certainly even go to his health. Finally, not entirely closely attached to this legislative package, but I think I should respond to it, because yesterday we were talking about tao money. What I can tell you is that after yesterday's trip to Wales for the acting group, where the World Championship was manifested in tattoos to play football for a goal, and if we're gonna put that much money into it, at least let society have some joy. Thank you very much. [[Interventions in the ranks of Fidesz: Go, Hungarians! Go, Hungary! Let's hear it for Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-11-20-7	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Acting Group!]] Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-8	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I begin my meaningful speech in this respect, our colleague Andrea Varga-Damm has just spoken: thank you for your support for the Hungarian team. Go, Hungarians! Go, Hungary! [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Long live! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interviews in the ranks of Jobbik and Fidesz. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-11-20-9	And I would ask my fellow Members to be happy to refrain from trying to express their opposition to the bill. What we're talking about here is the bill, and I'd like everyone to talk about it next. Thank you. [[Gergely Harvester applauds.]]
u2019-11-20-10	Mr President, Thank you very much for your information. Let's talk about T/8016. About bill No. 1. The reform of the territorial administration system should be linked to the amendment of the rules relating to the judicial organisation and its administration, as well as to the amendment of the rules on administrative procedural and judicial law. All of this must be done in accordance with uniform principles. The bill does nothing more than the 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Act and CLXII of 2011 on the status and remuneration of judges. The 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation amends, subject to the appropriate amendment of the Act. Law and Act I of 2017 on Administrative Procedure, as well as certain laws containing substantive and procedural provisions. Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal also provides for the possibility that the members of the Constitutional Court should not lose their former office in the event of their election, given that the members of the Constitutional Court cannot be re-elected. The proposal ensures this in such a way that, during the term of office of the member of the Constitutional Court, the judicial service relationship is suspended and, in view of this, there is no conflict of interest. Ladies and Gentlemen, What does it mean that the administrative procedure will be one in the future? It means that, in the future, an administrative action may be brought directly instead of an appeal. The action shall be referred to the court through the supervisory body of the authority which has taken the decision, in the case of a decision taken by the district office, through the Government Office. The way in which the procedure is done is an excellent opportunity for the supervisory body to review the document immediately before the court case and to remedy the decision which was wronged before the trial. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is important that the Curia is able to comply with its statutory obligation to develop uniform and consistent case-law throughout Hungary in relation to the Hungarian courts. To this end, the parties to the proceedings should be able to bring it to the Curia if the final decision in their case differs from the published decision of the Curia and should therefore be able to appeal to such cases. The introduction of this legal unit complaint is included in the bill in full compliance with the recommendation of the Venice Commission. Ladies and Gentlemen, An important innovation of the bill is the establishment of a legal place for an organisational unit operating at a district seat other than the seat of the district court. On the basis of the proposal, the place of law of the district court may act as the department of the district court in the future, which is led by the judge or the head of the judicial staff. It is important to amend Bj. that the bill only creates their national security control with regard to administrative managers. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill addresses a number of issues that have already been necessary over time. On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-11	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament, who is speaking from this platform. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, Such a complex proposal obviously has a number of positive and forward-looking elements, but such a proposal as a construction, in the case of proposals in so many areas, is obviously very difficult for each opposition representative. I didn't mean to make a joke yesterday about a proposal, but I almost said that a piece of classified advertising could have been added at the end. Obviously, this is also the main issue on the subject of the proposal, and there are a lot of things that are eligible, as has been said, to eliminate a lot of problems with coherence, and it also regulates a lot of issues that have been waiting for you for some time, and of course many pro-government Members have already said their positive elements before me, and I would not refer primarily to them, but rather point out a few points of question. The Miniszer brought up a case in her main speech, which I would like to support from here now, as she spoke about the arrangement of the judges' wages, which has been waiting for a very long time. We will need to see what comes before the Justice Committee, what comes on the table; of course, this particular case is eligible. [[9.50]] Let me ask you a question: how does this, of course, affect judicial staff or specifically judges? It'd be nice to see that. I hope that this raise-up proposal is as broad as possible. Let me put it on the table that, of course, the fact that this comes in with a Commission amendment afterwards also means that if a faction or a representative has reservations about other parts of the proposal, then, if I understand correctly, he will not be able to differentiate his vote at the end. We have seen a lot of this before: there are eligible elements in a salad law or in a comprehensive amendment, whether a wage arrangement or a proposal that positively affects citizens, and other points are problematic for a proposal. It is difficult to take a responsible decision in this way, I must say, so it might be better to bring the issue of the organisation of the judges' wages in a separate proposal. I therefore suggest that this should be considered, not to be an amendment to the Committee on Justice, but to be a proposal on its own. I believe that a full consensus can be reached around such a proposal in this House. Now, in addition to positive things, let me put some question marks; obviously, my comment is primarily on these issues, so consider the comments. The Government of Hungary has abandoned the concept of administrative courts, but it remains an objective to implement political control over the courts. This bill is also an eloquent proof, and so far it has been mentioned, which is not primarily related to the procedure of the district offices, but obviously concerns a significant restructuring of the judicial operation with regard to question marks. The Government's proposal provides for the possibility for constitutional judges to ask for their appointment as judges. In that case, the President of the Republic shall appoint the data subject for an indefinite period without examination of the conditions of appointment and without a tender being issued, directly to the Judge of the Curia, so that judges who do not even have judicial experience may in principle enter the Curia. This provision is obviously not acceptable, the Court of Justice of the Curia is not politicians, it is not political, it is judicial, and their system of advancement is purely professional. On the other hand, the election of the Constitutional Court is essentially a political decision of the Parliament; obviously we know this practice from recent years, and the opposition has not been involved in this. There is therefore no guarantee of this kind of consensus in the nomination and election of constitutional judges, and there is no guarantee that such a member is not a member based on the government's own decision, so that every possibility is given to the politicised functioning of the body. It is therefore unacceptable for the Court of Justice to be filled with persons elected on the basis of such a decision, and the proposal does not require a period of service, so that, even after a year of constitutional justice service, a person elected by a political decision can become a judge of the Curia. Under the proposal, the decisions of the Curia would be binding on the lower-level courts. There may be a question mark here that narrows the margin of the judges, since the decisions of a judicial forum that raises the aforementioned question marks in relation to their personal composition will then be binding. This is not the only problem that I would like to raise yet, because the motion aims to create the opportunity for the bodies exercising public authority to make a constitutional complaint as a result of a violation of fundamental rights. This idea is completely contrary to the fundamental rights protection system and gives rise to abuse. The protection of fundamental rights and fundamental rights in general were born to protect citizens from public power even when fundamental rights first generation appeared. These rights are linked to the human nature of man, have moral roots, and are related to human existence, and are not fundamentally separable legal constructs. The holder of a fundamental rights relationship shall be the person and shall be bound by the State or by the body exercising the public authority. In the fundamental rights system, ab ovo is not possible for public authorities to refer to fundamental rights. However, this proposal intends to do so, which means that the state will defend itself against citizens by referring to fundamental human rights through its public powers bodies. This is wrong and unthinkable because the system of protection of fundamental rights is familiar with the concept of an institutional protection obligation that the obligation to protect institutions imposes on the State the obligation not only to remain passive towards those exercising fundamental rights, but also to explicitly promote the enforcement of fundamental human rights. It is therefore for the State to ensure that the right to a fair trial is guaranteed regardless of whether the citizen is involved in public or judicial proceedings. If this is not fulfilled, the State itself fails to fulfil its duties, which in itself constitutes a fundamental right for the parties to the proceedings. On the other hand, the motion seeks to provide that, even in the absence of the conditions for a fair trial, the State may lodge a constitutional complaint with the Constitutional Court. This may even result in a decision against Hungarian citizens, even though it was the State itself, as a public authority, who did not provide the conditions for a fair trial. Now, in a concrete example: imagine that the National Tax and Customs Office will turn to the Constitutional Court after having lost its lawsuit against a hypothetical debtor, and then that court proceedings can be repeated even if, where appropriate, the NAV was the one who did nothing to ensure the conditions of a fair trial. Thus, the present proposal provides an opportunity for the State to use a safety net for citizens against them. This is also outrageous because it was this government that took away the possibility for citizens to turn to the Constitutional Court at any time, and a few years later it would allow public authorities to do so. It is therefore more important for the government that the State can win a dispute than for the Hungarian citizen to be protected in the event of a breach of his rights. On the other hand, the proposal intends to abolish administrative and labour courts. This is obviously a huge turn of events on the part of the government: a few months ago, separate administrative justice was forced. With this proposal, it has become clear that the aim and primary reason for the transformation is not to create a new professional administrative judicial system. The government is simply not satisfied with the current administrative court system, probably because it decides against them too many times, so it decided to abolish them. The losers of the transformation are the labour courts. Labour law is obviously a complex, special area of law that requires special expertise. In principle and in terms of its nature, it differs from the civil liability law rules governing relations between essentially co-ordinated persons, since the employer is essentially dominant in labour law. That's why it doesn't matter that a labour lawyer acts as a judge or a judge in economic law. The abolition of separate labour courts therefore reduces the protection of workers by potentially impairing the level of professionalism involved in deciding labour disputes. So basically, I divided my comments into three groups. Obviously, the proposal largely eliminates or clarifies problems of coherence, which are enormous but, of course, a lot of these issues can be supported. At some points, I have made my critical remarks, and I ask them to be considered; these will obviously be considered by the wallet. And thirdly, considering the specific proposal made here in the keynote speech, I would like to ask that, if possible, a separate proposal be made to organise the judges' wages. This would be important, because then a more prudent decision could be taken on the whole proposal by all Members of Parliament, and we would not be part of a political game, so that who, let us say, has some reservations about certain parts of the proposal, should not, where appropriate, support the salary arrangement of the judges, even though I think that there is a full political consensus in the House in the organisation of the judges' wages. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-20-13	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-14	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Yesterday we were sitting here together when it came to amending the Fundamental Law, and there was consensus in the House that the previous amendment to the basic law on administrative courts, the seventh, should be withdrawn. At the time, many of us talked about the fact that, if only this were a sign that the government had returned to the path of common sense, returned to the way of the rule of law, and that decisions concerning the judicial system, the basic legal system, the rule of law would be taken on a professional basis, possibly by consensus, involving those involved and strengthening the rule of law. [[10.00]] I know that, according to the Minister, there is nothing like a rule of law, we have been able to read this opinion in the press, but there are some people who do not think that this is exactly what we are, and so we must say that we are crying back to Minister Trocsányi, who, by the way, had a professional concept, an extremely respectable idea of administrative courts, even if they put in that proposal the measures that were capable of reducing the independence of the court organisation and judges. We said then that setting up administrative courts made sense, just not in the way you tried. But this proposal bled out, bled out because Fidesz was internationally in a situation where this kind of idea was untenable [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] and, as a result, they are now trying to come up with similar or much worse ideas in a different way. The intention to exert political pressure remained, but the professional content was essentially gone or turned violet. What's up? This proposal was presented with the wonderful title that the amendment of individual laws in connection with the establishment of one-degree district procedures, but in this bill, not only the legs of the horse but also other parts of the body of the horse are abundantly hanging out. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is essentially about how a judicial organisation can be controlled by the government in different ways. This is also shown by the way in which the referral is being tabled, which is shown by the fact that, while we were debating here yesterday, in this Parliament, the amendment of certain laws concerning justice, where everyone has acknowledged that there are fundamental technical changes, these proposals have not been included, but have been included in a bill on a completely different subject; obviously in order to say or to be excluded from the type of conciliation procedure and professional debate that took place there. This proposal had no substantive professional debate, no impact assessment, no sufficient time for Parliament to study it, and it was not included, by the way, in the government's legislative programme, but the least. What are the most critical points in this proposal? The first point is the extension of the institution of a genuine constitutional complaint so that public organisations can also appeal to the Constitutional Court. This effectively places the Constitutional Court above the Curia in administrative proceedings involving public organisations, allowing the Curia or other courts to decide against public organisations to run away and complain of violations of its rights in the Constitutional Court. Let us consider that this is a legal nonsense, since the institution of a constitutional complaint was not created for this purpose by the Fundamental Law and by the legislator or by case law, but for the protection of the rights of citizens, precisely to protect citizens' rights against the State and, where appropriate, even against the judicial organisation, but the political intentions of the proposal are perfectly clear. The Curia and the ordinary court system will still have relative autonomy from you in the future, and this cannot be said about the Constitutional Court: in the last ten years there have been no judges in the Constitutional Court who would have had consensus and consensus behind them. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] These judges, who are sitting in the Constitutional Court today, are your political appointees. The Constitutional Court is granted this right, that it overrides the decisions of ordinary courts and protects the State against ordinary court decisions, because in this way they are able to influence these matters politically. Dear House, What does that mean, practically? Practically means that from now on, in matters that are important to you, I will give you some examples of this: election cases, assembly law cases, freedom of information matters, if the courts make a negative decision, then you, the Hungarian State, can send them to your friends in the Constitutional Court to review these decisions. This means that there are very significant restrictions on the control and restriction of executive power by law, i.e. through legislation and legal services. This means that from here on out, citizens' rights will not or will only be protected by a much more limited court against you. Then it will be Tünde Hando who, as a constitutional judge, judges that the state is either right or the court that decides against him. And while we are at Hando's Fairy, there is one more place where the horse's foot hangs out badly: this proposal allows the Constitutional Courts to maintain their judicial relations and allows them to go to the Curia, in essence, without any procedure, tender, professional conditions, and to become judges or even council leaders of the Curia. I am silent to say that this means, among other things, that, after some transitional period, the Constitutional Courts may even apply to the President of the Curia, I do not know that there is such an intention; we remember that there were such processes in the administrative courts. It is difficult to ignore the idea that this proposal is also lex Handó, and there are also personnel intentions that would otherwise bring the courts under political control. Let us mention a few more elements of this proposal. The Minister also spoke about the kind of idea that would require the courts or judges to justify it, if different from the Curia's interpretation of the law, at least this is of concern. I understand your principles, only in a court system where you are already being disciplined so that if you use your license to appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which, by the way, is Hungary's obligation under a basic contract, there is at least a concern about a measure that provides for further administrative control and administrative adjustment to judges. The situation is similar to the extension of national security control. We do not know how, against whom, they will use this tool within the judiciary. Also such a problem is the uncertainty of the transfer order or the uncertainty of the transfer order; and indeed, my fellow Member mentioned it, and I would like to confirm it, while a few months ago, even last night, we heard what a wonderful professional proposal was to strengthen the administrative court system, to establish it as an independent judicial branch, and it is now on the agenda to abolish it, to abolish administrative courts. I must say to you that the objective of this exercise is obvious: this is yet another opportunity to put the administrative and labour judges so far in a position of uncertainty where, with the order of relocation and the inclusion in the new court system, it is possible to separate the pure wheat from the slumber, to force it to resign, to drive away judges who make inappropriate judgments for you. I would add that, of course, the citizens will also be the victims of this process, the citizens seeking rights, who have so far been able to obtain redress in a well-functioning professional court system in their administrative and labour lawsuits and, from now on, in a much more uncertain situation, in a different judicial organisation. Let me put a careful sentence to pay the judges. Because in itself this measure is positive and must be supported, we just saw what happened to teachers, government officials and many others. When you want to push through a law that significantly restricts the autonomy, autonomy and professional ethics of workers in one or another profession, you are trying to sell it by adding, of course, a great salary increase to the DA's office, but that's okay, and then the salary increase will slowly disappear, and the restrictive legislation will remain. So as we support this proposal, we would think it is more appropriate and we would agree with my fellow Member, László Varga, if we did not confuse the two. By the way, we have discussed the budget here, and it has not yet been important, and I could tell you more about all the other points where there was a way, there would have been a way for you to bring this forward in a professionally fair way. I have to say, this honey on the string, the only problem with these techniques is that sooner or later the honey will run out and the string will remain. Finally, I would like to say that once they gave the title to the bill because they obviously did not dare to give the title that the restriction of the independence of the courts and the withdrawal of the rights of citizens, that the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district procedures, this professional proposal itself raises doubts. In particular, because we do not know it, we do not see that this is known in the distribution of administrative burdens and other types of cases, that it usually reduces, but there is also a lot of relocations and other changes that have had the effect, and here too there is serious doubt that in the previous two-degree procedure, the customer was able to seek a relatively simple remedy in case of a decision detrimental to one. If the officials had done their job fairly during such a period in Hungarian history, then this was a real remedy, which gave the citizen the opportunity to find an appropriate remedy in a simple procedure, and offered a way from another side, otherwise it was possible for the executives themselves to assess the performance of the authorities' bodies acting in the first instance. [[10.10]] In conclusion, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the political intentions of this bill are simple. They failed with the kind of idea that, through the establishment of the administrative court system, in the way that you wanted it to be, with that kind of legislation, would have taken away a significant part of the cases from the courts and set up an dependent court organisation. This has failed primarily because it has become clear on the international stage what the purpose of the proposal is. What they do now is they think public opinion is stupid and they think our European partners are stupid. They think that if it didn't work out, then maybe no one will notice what they're really doing. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not the case, we are listening, we understand. The Democratic Coalition does not support this proposal in detail or in its entirety. I am telling you now, just so that there is no surprise, as we have said in the administrative courts: this proposal is not compatible with the European Union's core values, this proposal is not compatible with the rule of law. This will lead to another serious loss of international authority, scandal, and, in all likelihood, another nasty failure. I suggest you withdraw it now. You're better off, and more importantly, the country's better off. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2019-11-20-15	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-16	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dear Madam Secretary, Let me begin by saying that housekeeping can't be criticized, and I don't intend to, but I think that praise can. I would like to remember, in any case, that Mr President criticized one of the pro-government Members who had deviated from the subject following the professional interrogation of Mr Happy. At the same time, Mr President, let me say that I also think that the opposition representatives, all of them, are rooting for the Hungarian team, but obviously we would like to see victory, and we would like to see as many victories as possible, since the government is spending so much money on football. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes, if you're spending so much!]] And then I'm sorry that I've strayed from the subject myself. Thank you very much for your contributions to my fellow opposition Members. Obviously, as a number of speeches, there is also a disadvantage to the fact that I am not one of the first to speak, a lot of things I wanted to say have already been said, but I believe that in this case it is positive, because almost everything that is most important, its disadvantages and the most important dangers of the bill have already been brought to the attention of the law on a professional basis. I would like to thank Madam Secretary for her introduction. It is a criticism that not everything took place in 19 minutes, or that it was not necessarily about what was the essence of the bill. Well, I think there's no way in 19 minutes or, say, twice as much time for such a huge bill. However, I do not wish to go along with the strong politicalism of the Minister in her speech. Of course, on the part of a minister, it is absolutely not a disadvantage, but I feel that party politics should not have been involved here. Almost all the speakers before me have brought up the long-term debate that took place at the time of the introduction of a system of separate administrative justice, but I do not think that the opposition should be criticised in this process. When the Fidesz government started this system for the first time and, where appropriate, at the stage at which it did not have the two-thirds, then, well-well, it was able to conduct a professional consultation in which the faction of the LMP was involved at that time. I believe that the opposition representatives have indeed demonstrated that the introduction of a separate system of administrative justice was not, in itself, from the devil, but that, as has been done and, as has been put forward, it has not served that purpose at any level, there have indeed been very serious concerns about the rule of law, as Mr Arató said for example. At the same time, the LMP also submitted a number of amendments at that stage, in that debate, and they were actually swept off by the government without any debate. I think it is by no means necessary to criticize the opposition in such an exposé. I would like to respond to my colleague, Mr Varga-Damm, Andrea. He presented and criticised this bill with very serious professionalism, and it was very important to hear his criticism of the many times that this legislative order is a bit chaotic, so it can be said that there is confusion in this system. Obviously, we will be able to judge the Minister's performance afterwards on the basis of this, too, that she has managed to clean up a little in this system. I think that at least everyone expects the Minister to do so, compared with her predecessors, so that there is a little more discipline and order in this legislative order. Obviously, it is completely unacceptable to renegotiate and amend legislation that has been constantly amended over and over again, whether it is seven or a few weeks apart. Now, I'll tell you something that I agree with, either from what you said or from any of the proposals you made or related to it, this is definitely the settlement of the judges' salaries. It's a very, very serious debt. Mr László Varga specifically referred to this. The LMP also fully agrees that this should be done. This is a very important step, which we would like to support overall. Obviously, Congressman Varga asked for a separate opinion on this in some way. I think that is our intention, too, that we would also like to cast our vote, but it will be difficult in this system, so I thank Mr Varga for his contribution. It has also been said, I believe, on the part of the Member, that at the last moment, in the tsunami before the winter period, this huge bill of enormous importance came, and there has not been enough time, in fact, for the last few days, to properly prepare for this criticism and criticism, whether the opposition representatives or, by the way, the pro-government representatives, to learn what they are likely to vote for. Well, such a proposal should not be supported on the basis of political discipline, but on the basis of their conviction that it is in the interest of Hungarian society. However, it should be pointed out that, while the time was very short to get to know this extremely wide-ranging proposal, it was not even specifically mentioned on the statutory website, so there was no consultation required by the law. I think, however, that is a serious criticism, and you can say that this is a small problem, but it is, in fact, a failure to comply with legislation. Definitely and perhaps this has not been said, but obviously it can be derived from what I have said, which is a serious disadvantage to the proposal that very, very little time will pass between publication and entry into force, and there is a question of the preparation of the administrative and judicial organisation system. Furthermore, the proposal does not prove beyond all doubt that judicial proceedings will be faster and more effective by the transformation of a large part of the judicial system, but the restructuring and restructuring will create a great deal of new tasks for the already burdened judicial system, not to mention the costs of that huge comprehensive restructuring. Another criticism of the single administrative system is that the challenge of administrative decisions by an action before a court is more costly and the procedure will be longer than the appeal in the two-degree system, and this will adversely affect the parties concerned. On the one hand, a large number of my fellow Members, almost all of my previous opposition colleagues, drew attention to this fact in a certain provision that the person elected as a member of the Constitutional Court could request the appointment of a judge within 30 days of his entry into office. We believe that this is an extremely dangerous proposal, and despite what we are proposing, we too will reject it, in line with the attitude presented by Mr Arató as DK's position, but we consider this problem to be so serious that we will also present an amendment to it. This is the most serious, painful point in this whole proposal. The point is, therefore, that the LMP will propose an amendment to get this point out. I fully agree with my fellow opposition Members on what might be the intention of this provision. We have very serious concerns about the fact that the Mansion may involve judges who do not have any experience. Indeed, these provisions call into question the independence of both the courts and the Constitutional Court, and there is a risk that the judicial system, the Curia and the Constitutional Court will become politicised. So what I can say is that LMP will definitely say no to this proposal. At the same time, I would like to emphasise once again what Congressman Varga has asked for and suggested that it would be very good if the settlement of judges' salaries in some separate system could be brought before the House so that opposition representatives can support it as a very important proposal and a very long-standing omission with their vote, but this proposal will be rejected by the LMP. Thank you very much. [[10.20]]
u2019-11-20-17	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mr Alexov Lyubomir, a Serbian national minority advocate, who will present the first sentence of his speech in the language of nationality and then continue his speech in translation. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovana Skupštino! Poštovani Predsednice! Pošto predlog zakonapred uvaženim Domom ss razmatra kao narodnosna tačka dnevno g reda, želim da podelimsa Vama nekoliko misli. Dear Parliament, Mr President, T/8016. a proposal for a bill amending individual laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures, given that the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. It also contains amendments to the Act and was discussed by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary at its meeting on 18 November 2019. The Committee invited the Commission to present its opinion. I would like to start by saying that the committee of nationalities has tried several times to amend the legislation on the rights of nationalities in a comprehensive manner. A comprehensive and exhaustive, consensus-based amendment is, in my opinion, essential and should be done soon. Proposals for amendments and workshops on the whole of the law containing the rights of nationalities are under way. The changes in the draft legislation that we have just tabled are largely aimed at bringing legislation into line. Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Rules of Procedure was discussed by the National Assembly as a minority item, which is why it was particularly important for us in committee to monitor the amendments to this Act and further legislation, and, as I said, especially the Nationality Act. I have tried to interpret the parts of the bill concerning nationalities as a simple enforcer, and I would add a few points to that. The bill before us is 149. Paragraph 1 of Article 27 of the Nationality Act. of the changes to the provisions of Section 2 of this Annex. Twenty-seven. In 2012, the National Assembly had already amended the section on the right to vote or to agree on matters relating to public education, which granted the minority self-government the right to vote or to agree on matters relating to public education. The current change is justified by the need to bring the provisions of the laws of the laws of the law on administrative litigation into line. With the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Rules of Procedure, the non-court proceedings have changed, and the actions brought against orders are therefore settled by the court in a simplified case. Since this is due to the rules of the administrative procedure, it has not been named in this sectoral law either. My opinion was that the regulatory text of the law currently in force was more transparent and easier to interpret than the draft before us, and contained an appropriate wording for bringing proceedings, referring to the area of competence, the practitioner of powers and procedural time. The same findings are true in the Law 35. It also provides for the right to vote or to agree on matters relating to national cultural self-government. The amendment of this section is also intended to bring the provisions of the laws of the law on judicial procedure into line. The nationality law is 41. § 3 and (4) provide that a decision may be taken with the agreement of the national minority self-government concerned on the establishment, termination and reorganisation of a public collection carrying out a task of nationality according to its statutes. According to the rules so far, if the municipal government has established a decree on these matters, then the metropolitan and county government offices had to review the decree and take the necessary measures at the initiative of the national government. With reference to the violation of the rights of nationality, the local and regional minority self-government could apply directly to the courts. On the other hand, according to the current legislation, with reference to the violation of national minority rights, the municipal and regional minority self-government may directly propose an examination of the impact of the municipal decree on other legislation. I also note here that the wording is not law-abiding, and should have at least indicated, by reference, what jurisdiction and jurisdiction the motion should be lodged in a court of law. The nationality law is 83. The Commission also raises questions concerning the amendment of paragraphs 1 to 4 of Article 1 (1) to (4) of the Treaty. In the areas of nationality rights, in particular collective language use, education, education, traditional care and culture, local press, equal opportunities, social inclusion and social welfare, the body of representatives is bound by the agreement of the local minority self-government, in the absence of this, the local minority self-government. The same applies to the mandate of the heads of national minority institutions or to the withdrawal of the management mandate if the minority government does not exercise the rights of mandate. Thus, if the local government constitutes a decree in these matters, the government office in the capital and county will review the regulation at the initiative of the national government and take the necessary measures. According to paragraph 1 of the amendment to this section, there has been a change in the area of reference to the violation of national minority rights, given that, instead of the direct judicial journey to date, the municipal and regional minority self-government may directly propose an examination of the impact of the municipal decree on other legislation. It is not clear to me from this amendment whether the motion will have suspensive effect on implementation. However, the wording of the draft law (paragraph 2) which provides for cooperation on a subject other than the one specified in the law is clearly stated. It is clear here that, by reference to the violation of national minority rights, the local government may directly bring an administrative action or request an examination of the impact of the municipal regulation on other legislation, and that the application has suspensive effect. The same applies to paragraph 3 of the draft, since it is also understandable for the applicant that, in the event of failure to conclude an agreement which constitutes an administrative contract, the national minority authority may, by reference to the infringement of the rights of nationality, bring a default action before an administrative court. The Law on the Rights of Nationalities 106. In order to bring the provisions of the laws of law into line with the Law on Administrative Procedure, it is also necessary to adapt the amendments to paragraphs 6 and 8 of Article 6 of the Act. [[10.30]] The amendments to paragraphs 6 and 7 of the draft submitted in relation to the President's repeated infringement must be in line with the rules of the national minority law which are currently in force. In my view, it would also be necessary to declare the court's out-of-court proceedings in this area. The nationality law is 146. The amendment of §2 of the Act states that the metropolitan and county government offices will carry out legal supervision of national authorities in the same way as the legal supervision of local authorities. The draft law requires text-exchange amendments, we also agree, but I do not understand that the national minority law is Article 118. In paragraph 2 of this Article, why the possibility of using a judicial procedure should be repealed. According to the current legislation, legislation on the preservation and maintenance of settlements and architectural monuments of nationality with historical traditions does not include the regulation of the local government and the establishment of government decrees on the implementation of the Public Education Act on matters concerning the self-government of nationalities in education. To date, it has been possible for the national minority self-government to refer to a court directly by reference to the violation of national minority rights in order to review the legislation on this subject out of order. The current draft law repeals the possibility of going directly to court and, in my view, narrows down our rights so far. Honourable Members, For us nationalities, it is very important that the law governing our legal status is transparent and can be understood by all members of our communities. With these comments, however, our committee supports the adoption of the T/8016 Act. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-20-19	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, No one has applied for a two-minute speech, so I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-20-20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must admit that I was pleased to hear the speaker speak, because I would like to speak on a specific, but also national, issue, in close connection with the law tabled, but also once again in an area which I believe concerns our national assets. It's about earth traffic. It is clear that at this time, according to the legislation of the Land Traffic Act, it is about 4-5 percent of the population in Hungary that is entitled to purchase land directly within the earth traffic. This is not so simple either, because there is an intervention before the purchase, which means that a land committee, whose legal status I would like to refer to, will take a decision against which there has been an appeal and a subsequent judicial journey. However, the fact is that the possibility of appeal has been omitted, and I agree with the Minister of Justice, rightly, because this saves us one step, and the next is the judicial journey. However, I will return to why this is not enough. The thing is, first, let us try to clarify the capacity of those who make this decision. It's a fundamental question. It is not an administrative body, it is without doubt, not a public body, but a decision taken by members delegated by a public body. What is this in the administration of the state? I couldn't decide. Maybe the Justice Department will try. I must say, the Constitutional Court has tried to do this. I rarely criticize the Constitutional Court, but here I had the feeling that they were not aware of the substance of the case itself. The decision taken is legitimate, so the Constitutional Court cannot be challenged in this sense, but the fact is that a deeper context or aspect of this has not been taken into account at all is precisely the question of the decision taken by a body which, by the way, is legally empowered to do so, but it cannot be disputed that its legal status is uncertain or unknown within the legal system itself, which must be decided sooner or later. That's one of the questions. The other fundamental question that I have asked for is the fate of this decision itself. This decision has a fundamental influence on who can and how to get land in Hungary today. This may not seem to many to be in line with the law, but this is the result of the law and, consequently, it has a close relationship with it, so it cannot be said. Here's the thing. Today, the fact is that if this decision is made and it is avoided by the court, then the court will not change it if it is wrong, who knows who made the decision, but can repeal it. In itself, the act which takes a decision to repeal within such a system and does not change it, in my view, cannot be incorporated into the legal system, can simply not be incorporated, so the whole must be overruled. And then I got there, and maybe that won't surprise you either, and as a civilian small farmer, I can't say that, after very wisely and quite rightly touched on a legal area, which is the legal area of justice, which is not a simple matter, and within which we find the best solutions, I think it's a fundamental interest for the whole country, we should now reconsider the whole earth traffic system. If there is a situation within the earth's traffic system that gives rise to indisputable questions in this particular case, I believe that the legislator has a job. And if the legislator has a job, it doesn't have to be avoided. Dear House, I think what I've said so far may require a brief summary. It must be clear that in order for Hungary to have land traffic that is accessible to citizens and does not represent legal uncertainty for citizens [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] It requires a precise legal regulation, and I would say once again that I do not see it as clear. That's one of the facts I'd like to state. The other thing I think is very important, the opposition here has repeatedly referred to this, that what we are discussing here today is not a classical salad law, it is a mistake. This law lists all those affected by a fundamental change within a coherent system. Which is why I asked for a word, and I would like to say it, is that there should be an aid in this, and I am saying that to the IM. In such a wide change, in order to ensure that this system is transparent and accessible and understandable to the law-abiding citizens, I would consider it appropriate to put together a system of changes about themselves that is available on the website and within which a more accurate information can be obtained. Today, anyone who reads only the legislation will be in a state of indiscretion. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes, by the way!]] I think, therefore, that it would certainly be worth changing, and I think that there is a technical possibility, and in the world of the Internet, this is no longer an impossible matter. If we do this, then I believe that this legislation serves the fundamental purpose that I also agree with. It is a perfectly good goal and it is necessary to ensure that justice is done as quickly, as legitimately and as accurately as possible. It's a basic question. To do so, however, the system itself must function in such a way that the system itself is one where there are no legal gaps. So if, somewhere in our experience, what I believe is discovered in what I have just said, then this disability in the legal system must be replaced, I think that this deficit must be resolved. I support the proposal itself, by the way, for the basic good purpose.
u2019-11-20-21	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Arató has applied to speak again from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-22	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I was waiting because I was hoping that, if you had been shaking your head so much when it came to the rule of law and compliance with European rule of law, you would take advantage of the opportunity to take the floor and explain why this proposal is legal and complies with European standards. [[10.40]] Instead, Minister, you have left, and as I see it, Mr Secretary of State will also wait for the safety of the closing when there is no longer a way to answer what you say then. But then I would like to ask you to take advantage of the term, be kind enough to answer that if this is a bill of law, if everything is okay with the rule of law here, if you think that this kind of legal solution complies with European standards, the legal solutions that are being chosen now, then why yesterday Hungary vetoed the proposal that would link the payment of EU funds to the criteria of the rule of law. Why did the Hungarian Government not support this proposal in the Council? Are these solutions not so much of a rule of law? Do you know what you're doing? [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Is it just that you know less how to say this? will you and you, through your friends, business associates and friends, receive a source of public money that will be lost if the requirements of the rule of law are taken into account? Please resolve this contradiction, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-20-23	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-24	After receiving several requests, of course. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard a lot of interesting comments, and we will also continue the debate last night in part, because these issues have already been raised in connection with a fundamental law amendment, together with past issues. To reply to some of the things that have been shared among the fellow Members' comments, it has been said that there would be a lack of coherence here, at least half of which would be about resolving this. Since we are talking about a single regulatory system, the general administration system and the administrative procedure, the administrative procedure, and it is necessary to adapt organisations to this, we need a fully comprehensive regulation, precisely so that there is no conflict of coherence. It was said that it was a short period of time for an opinion. I see that some of my fellow Members have been fully armed by Amnesty, financed by Soros, and have been constantly quoted from the text of the opinion published on the Index, HVG and other places. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition side. The president's ringing the bell.]] This means that part of the factions are no longer required to have a separate expert background, because it is enough to rely on a base that openly attacks the government on a political and non-professional basis. [[Noise, interventions from the opposition side, including Gergely Arató: Politicalize the factions! Scandal!]] There's nothing wrong with the factions, I'm talking about these NGOs, who are supposed to be the spiritual background, but maybe it should be the other way around, that you should be giving political iters and not drawing them from somewhere else. As far as the number of appeals and the percentages are concerned, of course, since 1 January 2018 the judicial procedure has been opened in these administrative matters, so this system can be fully measured, assessed and calculated. We have created new courtrooms that will allow these cases to be dealt with in court. At the same time, the appeal in relation to the appeal is terminated at the government offices, i.e. as a second instance, but the power remains to change the decisions taken by the first degree of district. Thus, not all cases will be brought to the courts in this sense, so it will also help to reduce the burden of the case. Although my fellow Member, Mr László Varga, touched on the wage arrangement of the Iasos and asked a question about this. [[For signal:]] Thank you, I found Mr. Notary. So practically before, when there was the three times five percent, the 16,5 percent judicial wage increase, it was also different in time, of course, even after we were not talking about the same rating topic for the Italians, that is to say, the salary arrangement for the judicial staff. This will be a separate topic, which we will consider separately. Similarly, with regard to the pay table: we cannot seriously believe that the Minister has announced this today, and this has not been preceded by a serious preparatory work, in consultation with the courts' organisations, which he mentioned in his exposé or with the prosecution's organisations. It can also be seen that the difference that was born in the last wage arrangement will be balanced next year. I think that we have also clarified in our response to one of the speeches on Monday that we are aiming at it, regardless of whether it is not a rule of law criterion, because there are several places in Europe where the pay of prosecutors is different and, where appropriate, higher than that of judges. There was talk of why the constitutional complaint should belong to public authorities. Because there is no public authority in these matters because of the separation of powers, so the right to a fair trial also applies to the State. Think of it as a matter of civil, succession, expropriation, or any matter that may impose a financial burden on the state, it would not be fair to have a procedure where the same powers would not be entitled or could not be heard in these proceedings. It has been suggested that the administrative courts should be terminated in relation to the KNBs, and then we will establish an organisation where the influence of the government once again prevails. I beg you, the same judges will remain, the same will act in the same cases, no one will replace the court, so judicial independence will not be violated. Then how do they do that? Yesterday we made it clear that paranoia is not an unconstitutional phenomenon, so it can be practiced calmly, but we do not want it to be seen as a truth when the fundamentals of the matter or fact are missing. My colleague Gergely Arató also mentioned the constitutional complaint. The Constitutional Court is not investigating who filed the constitutional complaint, but the constitutional decision that came before the court. The composition of the Constitutional Court was discussed. It is not my honor to defend the constitutional judges behind them for decades of legal careers, and I think that their course of life protects them in itself, or is a reference to consensus. We also elected constitutional judges in 2016, when there were no two-thirds of the majority of the governors, so they came in with opposition support. So these kind of ideas... [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition side.]] Or I could refer to 2010, when Stumpf elected István to the Constitutional Court of Parliament. I remember what a political uproar it was to be a former Chancellor, a pillared member of the Fidesz, and now there are such fidesz decisions. After that, they carried it on their shoulders on shields for years, that they were finally a tough constitutional judge who was always tough on the government. Please, anyone who takes a court's oath, a oath of the Constitutional Court, adapts to what he has done there, not to where he has worked before, because that doesn't mean a professional obligation, while the oath of the Constitutional Court does. In this sense, regardless of whether it is favourable to the government or not, we can welcome these attitudes, because it is an expression of judicial independence. To say, in substance, what we agree with or because we do not agree, is an issue that is part of a professional debate and not a political issue. There was talk of how the law was filed. It has been submitted in accordance with Parliament's rules, and I would like to reassure everyone. There was talk of a national security investigation at the courts in the case of judges. I would like to reassure everyone that we are dealing with judges with administrative duties, and that is the only area in which the investigation is conducted. That's the case right now, if the rules are tight there. If a person does not pass this examination, his or her judicial status shall not be affected, unless he or she can perform that job or administrative function. It was about preparation time. Otherwise, the transfer of the original proposal would have required greater preparation, which would have meant the creation of an independent administrative court, since there not only would these court organisations have been separate in their organisation, infrastructure, IT and other lines. I think they're prepared, and I don't expect any problems that can happen next to the regular schedule. How to turn a constitutional judge into a court judge? Please, you can be a constitutional judge in Hungary today, who is at least 45 years of age and has 20 years of professional experience. We see it from the institution of the constitutional complaint, where constitutional judges act in specific court cases for 12 years, because they have a term of office of 12 years, and if, let's say, someone's term of office expires at 63 years, no matter how well he has exercised this activity, it cannot be renewed. [[10.50]] After that, you can go to the Mansion for a judge in Manor? Think about how many people are in the Constitutional Court, how many people are in this situation before the age of 70! And if someone's done with your 12 years, so to speak, go somewhere as counsellor? Professionally and in terms of career, there would be a very unworthy situation if this opportunity were not reserved for constitutional judges. It was said that the duration of the proceedings would be longer. I did not understand this precisely, because the elimination of the appeal phase is precisely aimed at shortening the procedures by that much. An observation was made by the representative of the national minority. Of course, we are happy to discuss this because we see from the IM that these concerns can be resolved with satisfaction. My fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, made comments on earth traffic regulations. I also believe that the inclusion of this in the framework serves to provide a faster and more reassuring resolution. Thank you very much for your attention, and I will ask for support from both the Commission's debates and the detailed debate and the vote on this proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-25	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A bill amending certain laws concerning the functioning of Parliament and the status of Members and the provisions of certain regulations of the House 10/2014. starting the general debate of the joint proposal for a decision amending the parliamentary decision. The bill submitted by Máté Kocsis, László Böröcz, István Bajkai, János Halász and Csaba Hende fideszes, as well as Imre Vejkey, Péter Harrach and Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP colleagues T/8044. and the proposal for a decision is H/8042. can be accessed by everyone on the House's website. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I would also like to inform you that during the general debate, the opening speech by the author, the speech by the lead speaker, the speech by the first independent Member, and the voice by the national minority will take place. Further speeches by Members will be possible in the course of the debate. Dear Parliament, The authors informed me that the opening speech would take place in three of their presentations. First I give the floor to Congressman Máté Kocsis... but there has been a change, first I give the floor to Vice President Csaba Hende. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Seven years ago, the Hungarian legislation decided to raise several relevant provisions of the previous house rule to the statutory level. As a result, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and its Committees in force in the Act of XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Act No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution No.1, regulated by the House Rule of Decisions. In the years left behind, the Parliament changed the regulations of the house to a greater extent in 2014, in view of the new rules of procedure laid down in the decree rule. Based on the experience gained over the last five years, it can be concluded that the regulation essentially provides the constitutional requirement for the effective and democratic functioning of Parliament. Dear House, Of course, the revision of the existing legislation is necessary from time to time. This is how the present proposal, which aims to clarify the detailed rules on a professional basis, is put on the table of the House and to strengthen the closed and coherent system of procedures. At the same time, of course, there are minor substantive amendments to the proposal submitted. The point of the proposal before us concerning the reorganization of the Parliament's disciplinary rules is one of the most remarkable points. In the light of recent events and of the findings of the European Court of Human Rights in principle on this subject, it has become necessary to amend the system of disciplinary law, whose priority is to ensure the effective and smooth functioning of Parliament as a rule of law and to preserve the authority and dignity of Parliament. I would like to stress that Parliament is the highest public forum for the debate on public affairs in all democratically functioning states, including in our country. It is therefore essential to ensure the effective functioning of Parliament and to strike a balance between the rights of individual representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court, which reads as follows: "In general terms, the constitutional interest in ensuring the functioning of the legislative arm in the actual legislative activity can be justified by a particular Parliament's efforts to ensure that the principle of majority does not unduly disadvantage the principle of democratisation of the deliberations. In connection with the events of the ominous meeting on 12 December 2018, the Constitutional Court stated that the conduct aimed at making the Parliament's decision-making process impossible by means of unlawful means is ultimately aimed at the constitutional functioning of the state. Such conduct is against the law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to the report of the Venice Commission, it is the fundamental duty of the political opposition to carry out its function in accordance with the national constitution, civil and criminal law, as well as Parliament's rules of procedure. The Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights also stated that there is an overwhelming public interest in the effective functioning of Parliament in democratic societies, while respecting the needs of free debate. In view of all this, Parliament has the right to act when its members behave in a disturbing manner as to the normal functioning of the legislation. Pursuant to the proposal, it is for the President in charge of the meeting to ensure the smooth conduct of the meeting and to maintain the authority of the Parliament and the notaries involved in the management of the meeting. The proposal extends the personal scope of the disciplinary rules to all persons involved in the meeting, but the legal consequences for them are limited. If a representative who shows a breach of disciplinary law ignores the orders of the governing president, the law itself obliges the Member to leave the Chamber. The proposal seeks to regulate the extent and degree of the sanction that can be applied for each conduct in a differentiated manner, in line with the gravity of the infringement. The proposal intends to introduce the legal consequences of exclusion and ban following the example of the European Parliament, the British House of Commons or the Bundestag, the German Parliament. The excluded representative shall leave the meeting room immediately after the decision communicated to him in the oral manner and, if he fails to do so, he may be banned. The legal consequences of the ban shall replace the suspension of the rights of representatives under the current legislation. The proposal also provides for the institution of voting by delegation, according to which, during the open vote during the period of prohibition, the fellow Member who has been appointed to act in place of and on behalf of the Member who has been banned may act. [[11.00]] In the case of secret votes, the possibility of exercising personal rights will continue to exist and will be guaranteed. The proposal before us introduces a new system of two-degree redress in these cases. In the first instance, the immunity committee shall act as an appeal forum, and in the second instance Parliament itself shall act. Dear Parliament, The proposal on the House's table, together with the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Decision submitted in parallel, creates detailed house rules for the regulation of the absence of its representatives, and raises the rules for the declaration of absenteeism, the rules for the reduction of the fee of its representatives in these cases from the power of the House Committee to the level of house rules. 28th Parliamentary Act. § (1) states that the Member has the right and duty to attend the meetings of the Parliament. According to the provision contained in the law or in the text of the proposal, there is still room for a reduction in the fee against Members who have left the Parliament or a standing committee without prior notice, which could not have been decided on because of indecision. The purpose of these provisions is to ensure, in addition to guaranteeing the presence of its representatives, the quorum which constitutes the primary condition for the exercise of its tasks and powers. In view of the fact that the absence of prior notification of absenteeism may lead to the application of a legal consequence, the proposal specifically mentions the obligation to notify in the text of the Parliamentary Act. The bill to be discussed now also amends the provisions of the Parliamentary Act on the status of Members, in order to ensure the proper applicability of existing legal institutions. In this way, it clarifies the concept of oath by its representatives, stressing that the process of taking an oath involves both the oral presentation of the text of the oath and the signature of the oath document. Bearing in mind the legal certainty requirement of the rule of law, the proposal clearly sets out which rights a Member cannot exercise without a valid oath. Dear Parliament, The use of symbols has a strong public interest. For this very reason, it is essential to establish an appropriate regulatory environment for their use. The amendment contained in the proposal clearly distinguishes between two ways of using symbols, i.e. ways of using symbols on the basis of free use and prior consent. Of course, none of the means of use could prejudice the dignity of the Parliament. The proposal seeks to promote the unification of the practice of law enforcement, thus clarifying the concept of the symbol, according to which the image, stylised image or silhouette of the Parliament is also protected. The proposal specifies the cases of unauthorised use and, in the case of appeals, when the Office of Parliament may sue and when it can be sued. Dear Parliament, The proposal institutionalizes the interpellation on the subject of nationality among the parliamentary instruments used to control the government, ensuring that the more complete representatives exercise their rights. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Finally, it should be mentioned that the proposal, although only slightly, contains amendments to the operational details of the Parliamentary Office and the Parliamentary Guard. Ladies and gentlemen, The effective, undisturbed and democratic functioning of Parliament [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] and in order to preserve the dignity of this House, I ask that you support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-20-27	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition.]] I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, to the extent that the time frame is available. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor. I ask my fellow Members to respect each other enough to listen to each other. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-11-20-28	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I would like to add a few points to what President Hende has said. Even if Congressman Varju doesn't want to hear this, that's why we might be here today. [[Szabó Timea: Because you are always curious about our opinion...]] After all, in recent times, a new parliamentary culture has begun to take place that I do not think you think is decent and good, and I also say, from the perspective of certain press statements, that you are deeply afraid of the phenomenon that, if it becomes accepted, you can be the victims of this. These calm and thoughtful statements lead me to come up with aspects which, let us say, aside from preserving authority, are not about your authority or our authority, but about the authority of political parties, but about the authority of the Parliament, but, in addition to preserving authority, it suggests that people sitting here must also show a pattern of their behaviour towards society. Now, what's happened in the last year, what's come out of one of your heads, and then you've brought the others into it, let's face it, let's be clear that there are two things that we should acknowledge that it's completely unprecedented since 1990. If you recall previous harsh political debates, especially those sitting here, such as the parliamentary debates after the autumn speech was published, all sorts of things were said, the public uproar was absolutely justified, the political atmosphere was even capable of organising more radical parties, and yet it did not happen in the Hungarian Parliament, what you did last December 12th. Since 1990, including the provisions of the controversial Bokros package of the Horn Government, including the subsequent attacks on the civilian government or those of the Gyurcsány government, the harshest parliamentary behaviour, whatever cycle I think it is, was the withdrawal from the Chamber and the total withdrawal from the Chamber. Of course, the yellings and the blade changes took place, remember, for example, when Ferenc Gyurcsány was asked about his wealth from this chair, there was still a lot of noise and squabbling, but it didn't happen, in any political cycle it didn't occur that the functioning of the Parliament, its legal function, was physically prevented. A new chapter opened on 12 December last year in this area, and since there has been no example of what has happened here since 90, it may therefore be necessary to tighten the rules. I am also talking about tightening up because, despite any political debate or false media declaration, there are no new rules. As far as disciplinary measures are concerned, I can tell you that what has been prohibited will continue to be prohibited. The fight with regard to disciplinary rules takes place so that they can be done cheaply. [[Gergely Arató and László Varju intervene.]] And obviously, your intentions are not to comply with the rules that are still in force, but to do so, despite what your party page said yesterday about consolidation and the need to change parliamentary behaviour, it is not in your mind to comply with them, either cheaply or expensively, but it is in your mind that they should definitely continue with the parliamentary disorder. One thing the legislator has to do in such a case is to raise sanctions, sanctions for violations of disciplinary rules to a degree that is more dissuasive. And speaking of what happened last December 12th, let me have another thought about that. Regardless of what party he is, prevent him from doing the work that the law obliges him to do, he is completely unprecedented. But after almost a year has passed, and the simple citizen may have thought that these culture of behaviours have changed, Mr Hadházy appears and has held up a sign, which I think goes far beyond the limits of good taste, even in a more tense community, such as Parliament's community or the community of Members. [[11.10]] But after the conduct in Parliament, believe me, do not argue it as a model for the relationship between people, so Mr Hadházy went even further than last winter's events showed by presenting the table. Allow me to have an international outlook, which you often like. A comprehensive material has been prepared on this subject. What I can tell you in summary is that it's difficult to standardize [[Gergely Arató and László Varju intervene.]] it is difficult to standardise sanctions which: [[Gergely Harvesto: How are things in Belarus? Moldova?]] they arise in different countries. Yes, Mr Varju, this debate is about the fact that you and the Members like you, who have such patience problems and behaviour problems, should respect those who are sitting against them at least enough to listen. We didn't yell at what you had to say, and we never will. [[Szabó Timea applied for a speech: I would like to be interested, will be...]] Szabó Timea is the other person who is unable to hear the opposite opinion on a regular basis, however, I will say it even if you do not want to hear it, at the very least you will leave the room. Reviewing the regulation of all EU Member States and even the regulation of the European Parliament itself [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] We're going through it. We're going through it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That it's completely unparalleled and not unprecedented. Once again, it is difficult to standardize these rules, because in each country they have adapted them to their own needs and problems over the years. I will give examples, for example, of what Mr Varju is demanding of me here. Let's start with Austria, for example. In Austria, the penalty itself will be imposed if the speaker deviates from the subject. Imagine how many times you do this. In addition, the provocation of other Members may lead to the suspension of Members' rights. Let us look at a more savage parliamentary exercise in Albania than Hungary, just to please Mr. Varju too. In more serious cases, for example, Ákos Hadházy can expect to suspend the rights of his representatives by presenting the board there. [[Szabó Timea: We want to follow the Albanian example.]] But let's look at a more consolidated place, Belgium. [[Gergely Harvestó: Stop Brussels!]] even if you still don't like this speech [[The president's ringing the bell.]] then imagine that in Belgium the Member may be suspended for up to six months from exercising his rights if he disturbs the order of the meeting in the House of Representatives or in the Chamber of Representatives. [[Szabó Timea: How many times have you been suspended? Never!]] It's in Belgium! And in Denmark, Denmark, where it is obviously different, as I said, it cannot be standardised, there is a penalty for exceeding the time frame. In the United Kingdom, which we all know has a rough parliamentary debate culture, a genre based on yelling traditions is the British Parliament, otherwise it is enjoyable and can be watched, but one thing cannot happen in the British House of Commons, however, there is no debate, no scene since human memory, which was about preventing the leading president from leading the meeting. [[Szabó Timea: There is only one such law that has not been passed there!]] Even the very free-spirited British parliamentary rule retaliates with the most harsh sanctions, but we can also bring France here, where the 92nd pass of the Senate House Rule says that provocation of public-law dignitaries, whether verbally or in action, entails a fixed-term suspension. A fixed-term term is an interesting term because it depends entirely on the president's judgment. So he doesn't even set a framework for her, but it's a flexible rule, the President will determine it as he wishes. But let's see what happens in Holland. In the Netherlands, as I said, it is not possible to standardize, every national legislation will answer its own problem. The disclosure of confidential data or the disclosure of uncontrolled data, in order to avoid unfounded cutting in front of Parliament's public, on its own! A penalty shall be imposed. [[Szabó Timea: Never used!]] So in the Netherlands, it's not... Congresswoman Szabó Timea yelling that she's never been applied, it's probably because there's a rule and no one's making it so that it can be applied. And there is a debate culture for Dutch Members that you, for example, do not have. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] It should also be noted that, for example, in Iceland, where, as we know, there is no aggressive parliamentary work, the use of disrespectful expression against the President could in itself result in sanctions and even fines. But we can also include Luxembourg in the heart of the European Union, which can be regarded as an ideal for you, for the use of unworthy words... there is a rule that has been reduced, to say, to the use of unworthy words, but the penalty is quite flexible. Therefore, the President's discretion is on the one hand everywhere and on the other hand wider than in Hungary. But I could list Norway, Italy, Spain. But at the end of the day, let us look at an example that you may not want to go to, which is the territory of Ukraine outside the EU. There has been a lot of news about the operation of the Ukrainian Parliament in recent years, and the confrontation of Ukrainian MPs, after the whole world is amazed, and obviously every parliament is protecting its own authority from the situation in Ukraine, but even the 51st pass of the Ukrainian House Rule says that the use of poster, speaker or any other instrument not belonging to parliamentary activity will entail serious sanctions. For example, in order to hold a poster, just to refer back to Mr Hadházy and not to examine the contents of it, it could be a session for holding the poster, so it could be a five-day ban and suspension for the Member. All in all, it can therefore be said that no parliament of the rule of law and nation-states from Iceland to Ukraine tolerates the kind of behaviour you are trying to introduce here. I have no illusions, of course, that you would be interested in adopting this law, so in my argument, I am not trying to convince you, because it is clearly not going to work, I would rather try to see which points are not being told the truth. And now I can only start with press releases from the past few days, after, if they tell me a thousand times, it won't be true. First of all, you claim in public that this will limit you to anything. I would like to point out that, because of the 5:2 ratio of parliamentary factions, for example, you will have five times as much time to speak in this debate, five times 30 minutes, where no one will limit you, and I can promise you that we will not hold up a board, we will not blow the whistle, and we will not even yell or break into their speeches. And I can even say to you here that after you have made your arguments, we will not be hanging personal and rude signs on the gallery or even lifting them. [[Dr. László György Lukács: They went home to your 140 million luxury houses.]] This debate is difficult, by the way, because, as I began, I would like to reiterate: the very reason why this law is being prepared and then its submission and now its debate, because we are facing the phenomenon that you are saying. But, by the way, the same is true of interpellations, immediate questions, questions, which are defined by law in proportion to the faction and not in proportion to the opposition to the ruling party. By the way, I have also looked at European practice, EU practice, intra-EU practice to ensure that pro-government and opposition interpellations or the possibilities in question are on a par playing field. This is not even the case in Hungary. I would like to remind you, even on Monday, of ten immediate questions coming from the opposition, there is a pro-government question. That's ten times as many words. [[Gergely Harvestó: But the government speaks too!]] Any claim that you have narrowed your speaking options, even if you say it a thousand times, is false. Believe me, it's come through the press that you're afraid of another matter that your congressman's right to control is being violated. [[11.20]] I would like the relevant 98th Act to be submitted. To quote your article literally, if anyone else was interested in the facts, because I do not claim that everyone who is sitting here and making noise would have read the submitted material, I would not have accused you of doing so. This is what (paragraph 1) says:. The public authorities are obliged to support Members in the performance of their duties and to provide them with the necessary information for their work. This is the sentence of the movement. The representative may request information from the head of all public administrations, public institutions and public institutions in a manner that has been agreed in advance. Such entitlement may be exercised in the light of the provisions on the functioning of the body concerned and without disproportionate prejudice to its proper functioning. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What does the legislative interpretation of this passage say, which is not a political text, I warn you in advance, and are not the authors of politicians? It says: In view of the fact that, in addition to the separation of powers in the constitutional system, the system of dependence and control of public bodies is defined, these must be taken into account in the exercise of the rights of representatives. No constitutional body or its representative can take over the role of other constitutional or legal bodies, so neither Parliament nor Members of Parliament can take over the functions of other bodies, and vice versa, their rights can be exercised within the framework of the Fundamental Law and the legislation. The right to information or access should therefore not be interpreted as a right of investigation or super-review that would override the supervisory and control system of administrative or constitutional bodies, otherwise defined in the Fundamental Law and Law. Last paragraph in this field: Such exercise of these rights, the interpretation of the request for information as a right of inquiry would constitute a misuse of the right and the exercise of the legal functions of other bodies would also create an illegal situation in view of their receipt. What you refer to as wanting to do as you wish to do in the Suzuki factory, in the public media building, in any public institution, public body or market body, we have already seen a newspaper editorial board, where their colleagues at the moment have invaded and threatened journalists. [[A statement from DK: They are not representatives!]] We've seen you at the Suzuki factory run the factory there, and we've seen you at the state agency. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] It is not part of our work as representatives; it is not part of our work to invade any time when the Member comes to his mind. There is therefore no place in the work of its representatives for any Member to think of entering any public institution at dawn, such as the National Museum, and to exercise the right of oversight of its representatives. What is not allowed to other people in life, you do not try to claim, and this also applies to your behavior at work. Believe me, I will continue not to try and close my speech slowly to convince you of the adoption of the law, because it is clear that you will not do so. However, I would like to draw your attention to what I said at the beginning, and I would like to reiterate: I do not think that it is in your interest in the long term that the parliamentary attitude that Mr. Ákos Hadházy has tried to establish here should be accepted. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the legislative amendment that we have tabled can be signed at international level and can be supported by examples, so there is nothing outlier. I would also like to draw your attention once again to the fact that what has been forbidden will remain forbidden. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that Parliament's debates, which may even be carried out with a passion, do not give us the opportunity to prevent the legal functioning of the elected main representative body, even by shouting out loud, can prevent a fellow Member from expressing his opinion, as he would like, which they often do, but there can be no dispute between us that the prevention of the functioning of this House is the grossest violation, which is not merely a violation of the will of anyone who is sitting here or who is suffering it, but of all voters. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] We are all sitting here on the basis of this, and after the functioning of the supreme legislator, the supreme representative of the people, the parliament as a legislative body is not a wish show, but a constitutional obligation, I ask you to at least state in your rebuttal that you consider their conduct on 12 December to be correct or inappropriate. [[Interview from DK's ranks: Correct!]] And that's the culture of debate we're hearing now that they can't stay on their lips for ten minutes. [[A statement from the opposition: Staying on their mouths?]] Sitting on their mouths gives me the benefit of the doubt... [[Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman Torda, if you've spoken to me, it's like a parliamentary debate with you, like playing chess with a pigeon who beats everything off the board and thinks he won at the end. [[Defiance, applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] and believe that we are not your foster parents, we do not want any changes in character or behaviour in their lives; we are trying to at least preserve the authority of Parliament, because there is no place for obscenity, ugliness and disorderly conduct in this House. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-29	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. [[László Varju: They left the room, I see.]] Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr János Halász, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-20-30	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Yes, as is the tradition in the House when it concerns Parliament [[Szabó Timea: SZDSZ!]] We are talking about rules and amendments to laws, then the government is not taking part in the debate, this has been the case before, we are talking about an individual motion and a number of us are making a motion, which is obviously why this is the case. The proposals before us aim to amend the provisions of the Parliamentary Act and the House Rules in order to prevent further disorder within the walls of the House. This is supported by the Fidesz fraction. I have been a Member of Parliament for 21 years, I have been a member of the House since 1998 [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] and over the past 21 years, the world has changed a lot, and accordingly, we have had to adapt the legislative environment to life many times. We have also changed legislation on parliamentary work many times. [[Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] sometimes by consensus, sometimes by majority decision. The proposals before us, however, were not forced by life, but by some opposition representatives, the outrageous work of discrediting the authority of the Parliament and the legislative work. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] He's trying to make you impossible. Because what have we seen from the opposition in the last few months? They obstructed the leading president in his work, threatened the Prime Minister, overcame each other with their obscene words and sirens, trying to make it impossible to do normal work, to speak and to conduct the meeting. Five, ten or twenty years ago, there were debates, hard, heated, heated debates, but the Members of Parliament accepted the electorate's decision, if they did not receive the majority in the vote. No one played anarchist, no aggression, no fear. We're Fidesz Democrats. [[An uproar, applause in the ranks of the opposition.]] We accept the electorate's decision even if we have to work in opposition, and even when we have to rebuild the country with a two-thirds mandate. And as democrats, we will now bring the work of Parliament back to the traditions of Hungarian parliamentarism and to the people of Hungary by submitting legislative amendments. This will be done mainly with regard to house rules on a professional basis, strengthening the closed and coherent system of procedures, while the Parliamentary Act is subject to more important regulations in order to strengthen disciplinary rules. Why is that necessary? As you have already heard, because all well - feeling Hungarians are outraged by the harshness that has occurred in the building of the Hungarian Parliament; because the Hungarian Parliament is also a workplace; because in the National Assembly ugly, obscene speech and disorderly conduct are inappropriate and unacceptable. The time has ended when we can tolerate them silently. Dear House, The primary objective of the new regulation is to ensure the effective and smooth functioning of the Parliament and to preserve the authority and dignity of the Parliament. [[11.30]] In addition to what has already been said, it should be pointed out that, in addition to the substantive amendments, the proposal submitted also includes certain changes which fall within the scope of technical clarification. The expression of opinions in a body of nearly 200 people, such as the Parliament, can only take place in a regulated form. The expression of opinions should not prevent the operation of the institution and the adoption of majority decisions, as this would render the function of the Parliament impossible. I will read to you the report by the Venice Commission on the opposition's role in the democratic parliament. [[Szabó Timea: Ouch!]] , quote:. The fundamental duty of the political opposition is to carry out its function according to the rules of law, including the national constitution, civil and criminal law, and the procedure of Parliament. Opposition parties may propose amendments to the legislation, but they must respect the law in force as well as everyone else until the amendment. My fellow Members, like everyone else! According to the text of the amendment, as before, it is the responsibility of the President of Parliament to ensure the smooth conduct of the plenary session and to maintain the authority of Parliament, which is now supplemented by the fact that the President is supported by a notary involved in the chair of the meeting, as well as by any notary, vice-president and housekeeper present in the meeting and invited by him to maintain the negotiating order. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: This is the one! That's the one!]] Ladies and gentlemen, The scope of conduct which is contrary to disciplinary law is included in the proposal in a transparent system. Each infringement shall determine the applicable applicable legal consequences differentiated according to its weight, and shall do so with due regard for the principle of gradualness. The application of the sanction shall be possible in so far as the act committed is capable of disrupting the court order, violating the institution's authority or interference in the exercise of the law of other persons. So anyone who doesn't play anarchist, who doesn't stop the job, doesn't get punished. I would like to point out to the opposition that this practice is not unknown in European Parliament law, which has been discussed in detail by the Head of the Group. Both the German Bundestag and the European Parliament have similar rules of procedure. Moreover, the proposal on the table in this House intends to introduce the legal consequences of exclusion as an innovation. Like the rules of other Parliaments, it provides that the excluded Member is obliged to leave the Chamber immediately after the decision communicated to him. But this will only happen if a Member acts in a manner that violates the work that you have done here before. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] In addition to the amendment of the rules on disciplinary powers, the proposal also clarifies the concept of the symbol in relation to Parliament, clarifying that, in addition to the stylised image of the Parliament, its silhouette is also protected; it distinguishes between two ways of using it: free use, use based on prior consent. It is only worth talking about because these two amendments are very diverse and contain many details. As regards the amendment of the house rules, I would like to point out that the proposal intends to make a detailed provision to regulate the absence of Parliament's representatives from plenary and its committees, raising the rules for the application of the notification, certification of absenteeism and the reduction of the fee of its representatives in this case from the power of the House Committee to the level of house rules. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure the quorum, which is the primary condition for the exercise of the tasks and powers of the Parliament and the parliamentary committees, by guaranteeing the presence of its representatives. In other words, in the Parliament, not only does it have to be heated, but it also has to work. [[Szabó Timea: Yay! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You too! You too.]] The new legislation provides the national minority representative and the national minority advocate, as well as the national minority committee, with the powers necessary for the performance of their activities, thus institutionalising the legal institution of the ethnic interpellation, which is a very important step and is supported by our faction. Dear fellow Members, The rapporteur gave a satisfactory account of the details of the bill to the honourable plenum. The proposal before us contains solutions for the effective and democratic functioning of Parliament in the constitutional rule of law. We ask the parties to participate in the normalization of public speech and the preservation of the authority of the Parliament. I say this despite the fact that I'm going to hear the next opposition misdirection, disbarment, exclusion, dictatorship. [[Bence of Turdai: And how right we will be! It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] They will talk about the restriction of freedom of expression. [[Szabó Timea: We'll tell you soon!]] Yeah, they're complaining about bans and exclusions, and then we'll hear it, and they just don't have to stop you from working. Are they going to dictate; but do you think that Germany or the European Union is a dictatorship where the regulation is similar? [[Lajos Korózs: No slave law has been filed in any country, John! What are you talking about? The president's ringing the bell.]] They will also talk about the restriction of freedom of speech, even though they are still shouting freely, shouting freely and loudly, and they will speak up. [[Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] Plus, we're a faction, and five of you are going to tell us what we're going to hear here. And by the way, no one's restricting you here. [[Szabó Timea: No, no, no!]] No one limits freedom of speech. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] All we ask of you is that you work at your workplace, respectfully, honestly and normally, the Members of Parliament do their job in accordance with their oath. [[Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for your attention, the Fidesz fraction supports the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence of Turdai interrupts.]]
u2019-11-20-31	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Peter James, who is now presenting the position. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I admit honestly that one eye cries, the other name. One of my eyes is crying, because you have tabled a bill that, in essence, can ban us at any time or for months at their convenience, not only from Parliament, but even from our own offices, and you can also make it impossible for us in public institutions to verify in substance how you use taxpayers' money, so it may be in Hungarian that voters are left without any meaningful representation. Nevertheless, my other eye laughs; he laughs, for such a bill is presented only by someone who is not merely afraid, but is directly afraid of the will of the people. Colleagues, do you know when regimes are afraid? When they feel the fall coming. You, fellow Members, have entered the hallway of your own failure with this bill. This is due, by the way, to the fact that on 13 October you were defeated in the municipal elections, but you didn't learn anything from it. At this municipal election, the Hungarian people told you to stop the dictatorship and start steering and start working, which is why they are getting their money. They still don't work, but instead they start working with us, threatening us with ten million penalties and bans if you think we're acting badly. I would add that it is very difficult to judge, let's say, after the Borkai case, what is considered to be bad behavior for you. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] For now, all I know is that telling the truth is what it is. So I'd like us to have a little practical briefing on the law. I started my first speech in Parliament last year by saying an important, very important truth. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] I was talking about the fact that I've never spoken to so many criminals in my life, because let's face it, for the last 30 years in this country, [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's just the national property that's gone missing, but no one's ever been sent to prison, so the perpetrators, if they're not in prison, can just sit here. So I would like to know that if I continue to say that I have never spoken before so many criminals in my life, then what punishment I will receive, how many millions of forints I will have to pay and how many days I will be banned from this House. Then I'd like to know that if I say at the next session, let's say that László Fat thinks he's Comrade Fat, then what punishment I'm going to get. Because I don't think there's anything extraordinary about it either, because we all know that in the old system, László Kövér supported that regime as an enthusiastic young communist, but when I said that in the House, Comrade Fat turned off my microphone. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] So I would like to know that if I make it clear in the future that Comrade Fat is actually now Comrade Fat in terms of his past and his current methods, then how many millions will I have to pay and how many days will I be banned from Parliament. I would also like to know that if I say to Viktor Orbán that he is an ordinary horse-dog...
u2019-11-20-33	Congressman... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: It's starting!]]
u2019-11-20-34	...then...
u2019-11-20-35	Congressman...
u2019-11-20-36	...what will I get for this...
u2019-11-20-37	Congressman, stop for a moment, please.
u2019-11-20-38	... I'm gonna ask you this...
u2019-11-20-39	You know what I called you...
u2019-11-20-40	They said they wouldn't discipline us, freedom of speech...
u2019-11-20-41	Congressman! Congressman, do you know what I called you? Mr. Head of Faction. That, please, is something you should consider. I've called you Lord, and you should act like one. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-42	Thank you very much. Mr President, I call you Mr President, and the Prime Minister is a horse's pile; I do this by saying that, by the way, I find it much worse than that, because he is not screwing horses, but his own nation when he offers the Hungarian worker a cheap slave to Western multinationals. So I'd like to know, if we call the horse's hood a horse's pile, what punishment is it going to be? Or what is the punishment for putting a bag of dry noodles on the Prime Minister's table next time, you know, a package with which you do not abuse the authority and dignity of Parliament and the House every four years before the elections, but the authority and dignity of the electorate. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] [[11.40]] Obviously, I know that if I sit in His Majesty's chair, then what's in it for me? Last time I had to pay 1.2 million forints for this, if the law comes into force, it will cost 5 million forints in the future, so I'll think about it for now. Overall, I would like to receive guidance on the punishment for those who say the truth and who really want to represent the people, the voters, in the Parliament today under the Orbán regime. And don't tell me you're trying to protect Parliament's authority and dignity. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, Flórian Wolf!]] Let us just say, fellow Members, that one thing certainly does not violate the authority of this House, and that is the truth. Telling the truth may be offensive to you, but it certainly doesn't violate the authority of this House. Do you know what violates the authority of this House? The fact that they're sitting in it with people who stole this country. It violates the House's authority to have people sitting here who voted against joining the EU prosecutor's office, for example, they voted against the wage increase of workers, they voted against stopping evictions, and they voted against sick SMA kids getting life-saving medicine. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right! Christian democracy!]] But they voted in favour of the slave law, they voted in favour of taking the cafeteria, they voted in favour of smashing the housing system, they voted in favour of protecting the mob government for another nine years. Fellow Members, you are the ones who are violating the authority and dignity of this House. Do you know what that means? It means that the time is coming when the people will ban you not only from Hungarian cities, not only from Hungarian governments, but also from the Hungarian Parliament, not for two months, but forever. In the meantime, fellow Members, I have considered this chair story, so as a sign of protest against the law, I will hear the next speaker, my fellow Member Luke, from somewhere else.
u2019-11-20-43	Dear Parliament, I'm asking you to take your place. [[Peter James is still in the Prime Minister's seat. Dr. Brenner Koloman: You should be there.]] I invite Mr. Peter James to leave the seat on which he sits to take his place in Parliament. [[James Peter: The people cannot be banned, but Orbán can be looted!]] You don't argue with me. You've received your first warning. There's no sequel until you get out of your chair. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: From his chair, according to the rules of the Hungarian language. It's a short break. Constant interruptions. Peter James is still in the Prime Minister's seat.]] You've received your next warning. Congressman, this is your final warning. [[It's a short break. Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Last warning. [[Timea Szabó: Foreigners take the land from farmers! The hotels... butcher Lawrence makes $9 million... that's what you can do! So, what are you guys capable of? It's a short break. Constant interruptions.]] Last warning. The consequences of this are yours to bear, then you will stay. All right. I will signal to the relevant decision makers. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: To the comrades. The Bolshevik concierge.]] We'll begin disciplinary action. Congressman László Lukács continues.
u2019-11-20-44	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Now these creative activities are still possible, but this could be a good test. My fellow Members, what do you propose to Mr James Group Leader? You're welcome to yell it out. Banned? Disbarment for the whole year? Taking all of your salary? Or a court of law? Or do you already have a verdict? Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The presence of Peter James there doesn't bother anyone, he can listen to it from there, and I am honored to hear it from there. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: There will be more.]] We hope that this will happen many times in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, In political terms, I would first like to say a few points on the legislative proposal before us, on the one hand, and on the amendment of the House of Decisions, on the other, and then on the legal and public criticism of it. It is clear and thank you very much for the feedback from the governing parties that the opposition has done well over the past period, regardless of whether you have formed an asymmetrical space, and the media have all been in your hands, especially in the discrediting process, especially in making the opposition impossible outside the parliamentary framework. But this has not been achieved in Parliament, which is why this is the next step: Parliament's rules are being set up and amended in such a way that, if possible, the opposition is being put within a framework. Ladies and gentlemen, Tell you that this reaction is a flawed reaction. It's a flawed reaction, and it's not elegant. That's one of the conclusions they need to draw. Orbán is really afraid that what started on 13 October is that the opposition has proved to be able to successfully politicalise in Parliament, it can also successfully politicalize in the field, it is afraid that this will be viral, it will spread, and in 2022 it will certainly rewrite the political map that you love for ten years now, but it will definitely need to change. It is therefore clear from the political point of view that the horse is hanging out, my fellow Members, which is why this amendment has been initiated and is therefore being initiated. And why is this initiative not elegant? The elegance would have been that, seeing that the process that you do not like started to speak soccer, and Viktor Orbán would also understand, they are not changing the rules of the whole game during the football match, but they are making up some other tactics. You know, that's what coaches do, though, unfortunately, at the Hungarian National Team, it doesn't seem to work that when there's a break or a problem, they change tactics. Instead, you've figured out that during the game, you're going to have half a cycle and you're going to change the whole rule of the game, you want to change it so that the opposition, after they scored goals, doesn't happen to get near the gate and don't accidentally win the game. That's what happens. You are on the move, and most importantly, you are submitting, without any agreement, laws that affect the lives of the entire Parliament, of all Members, and that, through Members, they affect the lives of all Hungarian voters. The rules that you now want to introduce, and which the Members who got in here accepted in the last election in 2018, were adopted and did so, and this is in the House Rule of Decisions and the Act on the Status of Members of Parliament, were also adopted because they knew that this was the right of the electoral will as it is. Compared to this, you are doing a new rule of play, ignoring the will of these voters, of the opposition and even of your own electorate. Ladies and gentlemen, Although this is not going to happen, imagine the situation if, say, István Happy would have to report in advance in Tiszatenyő, and he could not go there asking for information on what you left behind a deficit of HUF 200 million, your fellow Member, the former mayor, would have to cuff you forward. Of course, the mayor there plays fair play and has good rules, he will be available immediately, as he has been available to our fellow Member, for example, István Happy. But what position do you put him in by restricting the rules now? This is not just a restrictive rule for the opposition, which may apply to you, fellow Members, although I note that in the opposition settlements you will not be played with such a way that you will be standing at the threshold and will be bounced back because you do not want to meet, it is not timely, and you will not be able to help. You will be welcome everywhere with open arms, even though you want to restrict opposition representatives. The other problem is that you always say that there is a job, there is a job interest here, and that is what Viktor Orbán said in the workplace. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that Parliament is an unusual workplace. This also means that if you consider it to be a full workplace, for example, you cannot do alcohol consumption at this workplace or do not do that, for example, when you are on drugs. For this, there may also be a suggestion to consider that there are people who are affected at this workplace. But when we talk about work, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of work is it where the main work and one of the main tools is to speak and speak, and one of your fellow Members hasn't spoken to anything for almost a decade now? What kind of work does he do? What kind of job is that? We're talking about Judge Mark, by the way. Their fellow Member is called silently by the press, and every year there are articles that undermine our opinion, so to speak, between you and our representatives, because he is the one who does not speak. It's not true that you can't find a topic that you can tell at work for the voters. But when we talk about work, we can also say that in every workplace, when the boss makes bad decisions, there is room for a proper remedy. [[11.50]] Here there is a completely irregular, a completely ad hoc decision and a completely untraceable and ultimately uncompromising appeal for the test of the rule of law: a decision will be made, and then a Fidesz majority committee will decide at the end, that is what will happen. There is no such thing in the world, honourable Members. And you can cover yourself with international examples, but then let's talk about issues such as international examples, especially national legislation that is closely related to the issue of sovereignty, what is the situation with media freedom. Give examples of where outside of Turkey, Azerbaijan and such places there is the creation of public media conglomerates and manually controlled conglomerates. These were created by you, and you might say left-wing overweight, we could quote the tablet of Ákos Hadházy, but that's not what it is. It's not that! [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Or if we talk about international examples, we could talk about the international comparison of the publicity of the agent files. [[Bence of Turdai: Oh, oh!]] That's right. It's interesting that they don't come in here to argue, and they don't say that in international comparison, they're hiding agent files there; no, because they couldn't say so. Poland solves these things better, and we're standing here, and we still haven't been able to account for our past. However, to return to the bill and to the amendment of the House Rule of Decisions, the really important political and public barriers are in the freedom of expression; one is an abstract issue. The Member shall be entitled to a completely different type of freedom of expression and a completely different right of expression, as is the case with false members in general, and shall be subject to the obligation to make allowances for them, to express their views on them and to work by them. Ladies and gentlemen, Precisely because Members are less protected by the legislation and allow more to be done against them, they allow more freedom of expression for Members of Parliament. So this right should not be narrowed down, it should be left wide, because the work of its representatives involves not only that it must be tolerated and tolerated, but also that it is obliged to say it, it must also be accountable, it must also be verified and its right of expression must be the fullest. I think everyone will agree on this if you go to any international legal field and look at the practice of any country. It's quite obvious that you're trying to narrow down the rights to information. I have just mentioned, in the example of Mr Happy, that, as long as it was possible to go there earlier, a large majority of Members have not abused this right. By the way, there may have been someone who abused you, and I'm not saying it wasn't like that. This may have been wrong, it may not be possible to do so on an investigative basis, but the opportunity must be given to these Members to go there and, when necessary, when the most important, to be informed, because in many cases, when a person announces his visit in advance, the clues will be removed, they will put away documents that would be uncomfortable. And I'm telling you, it works in reverse. Believe me, fellow Members, you may be in a situation like this, if not now, in the next term, and do not want to be as bad as you want us to be. Accept that this amendment to the legislation, this amendment to the House of Decisions, thus, as it is, does not lead to an end. In my opinion, what you are doing now does not even fit into Hungarian parliamentary traditions. That was exactly the point of the part of my comment that it should have taken at least one consultation, and to say that my honourable opposition colleagues, Viktor Orbán, were frightened, and that we will be obliged to submit, as group leaders, this draft law, consisting of a lot of paragraphs, with hundreds of pages overall; which you did not write, I have strong suspicions, and perhaps even Máté Kocsis said that the explanation was not made by politicians. Well, it was only submitted by politicians. They could have stood there and said that my honourable fellow Members, we are preparing for one of these, that we should already have their opinions, that we should have discussed it, that we could have had these debates in a closed circle, that if something normal came out of it, that it would not be narrowing down, that we would have more rights at the end, that we could give more rights, say, to ethnic advocates, or that we could give more rights to individual members of the opposition or to independent representatives without a faction. There were many ways to talk about this, and you didn't do that either. The other is a concern: employers' rights in the event of a ban. I'm sorry it's gonna be so professional, but who's gonna exercise employer's rights and related legal statements when a Member is banned? And in the resulting disputes, who will pay the compensation if it is not possible to terminate an employee who otherwise does harmful work? Who are you going to stand for this, fellow Members? You will launch an avalanche with these rules and place points in each place that will turn into rubber rules, and then God knows how we will apply them, and what will be the opinion of the application of the law about it. To give you a specific problem: the amendment to the Act on the Status of Members of Parliament is set out in Article 18 of the Act on the Statute of Members of Parliament. In its section, László Kövér places the scope of disciplinary penalties entirely in the hands of almost all the penalties, and he forces the notaries to do so, forcing the other vice-presidents to do something they didn't do, and I'm telling you, on the go. So if you're saying that this should come in 2022, then, in 2022, the next day of the election or the next period, the parties who have entered Parliament will discuss what kind of house regulation they want to amend. Compared to that, you're making the changes as you go along. But here is the other problem: I believe that the substance of the work of representatives in the right of information is the amendment of the law 28. I have already touched on this in the case of public-law criticism. The fact that you are bound to prior consultation is a serious and substantial restriction of this right, and I will even tell you that this is a violation of legal certainty. So when you are so sensitive to the legal certainty that everything is taking place in Hungary according to the most precise rules of the rule of law, and you reject any debate on the rule of law in the European Union, then all the requirements of the rule of law and, above all, legal certainty will be trampled on at home. The rejection of the proposal for a decision is a very technical issue. The opposition usually brings in issues that it would like to deal with, which are social aspirations and social needs. We voted yesterday, for example, on a number of such proposals, I have already mentioned: the issue of agent files, but I could also say the fund for rare diseases. Now these proposals for a resolution cannot be discussed here before the Parliament's plenum; you want the Legislative Committee to discuss them in some sort of slumped, narrow procedure. Who will represent these people's interests? Who will hurt those patients or those people who were otherwise accused of oppression before the regime changed, but could we say something else, perhaps even represent the interests of those beyond the borders? Because, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a proposal for a resolution that you have accepted, even for a commemorative year, and it has become a law. You will also reduce this possibility, and you will take it away. And the other is narrowing down a very important control function, I think, skandalum. One of the important roles of the committees is to listen to specific institutional leaders, service leaders or any other state leaders. The power to make a motion on this is left to you, but the committee will not decide that this man should appear, but that the committee will take a position. We know how this resolution is going: your fellow Members will stand up or get a letter to the secretariat of the committee stating that you will never have to, say, listen to the Minister of Human Resources or one of the State Secretarys in this country, even though it would be the person who would like to be checked by the Members, even though it would be the person whose work the Committee is supposed to monitor. You also want to limit this, you want to take away the last opportunity for anyone to do the otherwise not-so-high professional work that goes on there, for example, have any kind of insight and control of anything. And here's the question of absence. Ladies and gentlemen, We can also be honest about that, of course: Members should go to work and be inside. I don't think there are any opposition representatives among the record-breakers here. However, the MTI does not take part in taking photos, obviously putting the opposition in an awkward position, of who they are and who they are, but of who they are. And, you know, my fellow Members, the Fidesz people always miss me here. Whatever the debate is, you are not here in most of them and in relation to their number, and people and social media are certainly measuring the activity of Members in this matter, how much they are there, how much they are talking to it and how much they are present. And you know what else is so repulsive? And then let's go this way. How can a committee have a quorum with three out of six members there, but a vote with two hands? You guys do it all the time by raising your hands all the time because you vote with two hands. Oh, yeah, that's a replacement, that's not missing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is missing. It's school, it's work, it's missing everywhere. There's no way I'm gonna do the job at work, but he's the one who's gonna put it in, and they're gonna raise two hands, so, yeah, we did it together. You can't hang out here, but you're gonna take advantage of this rule, and you're gonna take advantage of it. [[12.00]] Then let it also be that the rules for substitution are defined, and then let it not be, let us say, an event which does offend Parliament's dignity, because many times there are repulsive images in the media that, in particular, my fellow members of the government, but let us be honest, we also have a fellow opposition Member who is lacking in substitution. Then there should be no replacement, let us not even give you the opportunity to undermine the dignity of Parliament or the dignity of the committees, or to reduce it. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that there is exactly the situation here that Matthew Kocsis wants to avoid: there is a narrowing and there is a restriction here. Dear Chief of Staff, Whatever you say, this is not a restriction, this is it. Anyone who reads this and even goes through the explanatory statement can see that it is. And you've already said that in a few places, and you've said that there's going to be a reduction in these cases. My fellow Member, if you had heard, for example, I have just told you in committee how much they want to limit what will happen to the proposals for decisions during their negotiations, what will be the procedure. We also know that the ban as a new institution will also limit this, restricting the right of Members to information and information. Not to mention that this is not in your legislation, but in the rules of operation of the current public media, that even in the public media they do not speak to opposition representatives, only when the house is on fire and when some kind of smearing material can be made of them, or it is a campaign period, but it is still a matter of tooth-whip to invite someone in and give them a few minutes to speak. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen, If you have done a field outside Parliament that is not at all European and cannot be supported by an international example, you are practically breaking up any rule of law framework with an incomprehensible approach, then at least in Parliament you should not try to sell that it will serve legal certainty, that this will not apply to narrowing down and to the use of the mouth lock for Members. Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite obvious what you have submitted, and you have not written it, only someone has written it, and the faction leader and the faction leaders have had to submit what they have given you, the mockery of Parliament's rules and the Parliament's public. This bill, this house regulation amendment, is precisely because it is on the move and does not reflect any kind of elegance, it will practically go into Parliament's history and write a book about it where the black days of parliamentary expression will be. You must withdraw from your consistent position of wanting to restrict the opposition. Stop putting opposition representatives, but also themselves, within limits. We must play with these rules by 2022, my fellow Members, and after 2022 we will look at where we stand and see if Viktor Orbán is sitting in that chair, or if he will be sitting there, or if he will enjoy the hospitality of another institution. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-45	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-20-46	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have witnessed unprecedented provocation by Péter Jakab's better group leader. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I thought you were talking about the proposal.]] Provokation not only against the Hungarian Parliament, but also against Hungary's public-law dignitaries, especially against Hungary's Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] and the president of the Hungarian Parliament, László Kövér. For our part, we strongly reject such [[Gergely Harvesto: Most definitely!]] and provocations like this. In agreement with what the Head of the Group of Máté Kocsis and President Csaba Hende have said, today's performance also clearly shows the need for a parliamentary law as well as a wide-ranging revision and amendment of house rules. Ladies and Gentlemen, We must say that it is a national minimum that Parliament must be given due respect. Unfortunately, you don't accept that. Those who refuse to give it are unworthy of being a representative of our thousand-year-old country, both at home and in the world. We must say that in the Hungarian Parliament there must be no room for ugly speech and the presentation of obscene texts, and there must be no room for verbal or physical aggression. Due to the above, real sanctions are needed. Real sanctions, those that have preventive powers against unworthy and aggressive actions. The sanctions so far, as you have seen now, have not fulfilled the expectations attached to it, so it has become necessary to significantly increase the penalties. The siren sounds that our amendment to the law is intended to silence the opposition are untrue. No, fellow Members, no. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] Only the re-routing of the debate into a civilized arena and the elimination of aggression. While I am at the outset, I would like to summarize for you what this bill and the proposal for a resolution are all about. By tightening the sanctions, the obscene text sends out to showers and disrupters: feel good, don't worry, it will pass. Ladies and Gentlemen, In order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to amend the parliamentary law and the house rules, because the Speaker does not have sufficient disciplinary powers to maintain the authority of the Parliament against the provocators and disruptors. Remember, not only the latest scandal that happened here in this House just a minute ago, but also the pre-emptive obscene blackboard action of Ákos Hadházy, neither the freedom of expression, as many press organisations have falsely claimed, but all of this is provocation, verbal aggression itself, and unusual exercise of the law itself. This must be blocked, before the practice of unusual law reaches the level that the constitutional functioning of the Hungarian state is seriously compromised. So there is no room for inaction because our nation is at stake, our children are at stake, the future of our children and grandchildren is at stake. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the debate held on Monday in the Committee on Justice, and on the basis of what has been heard here in plenary, I regret to say that the representatives of the opposition groups do not support our efforts to restore the dignity of the Parliament, rather they stand by the anarchy and continue to behave scandalously here in the Hungarian Parliament. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to moral and ethical issues, I think it is important to emphasise that the proposal submitted aims to limit it in the spirit of better regulation. [[Defiance from dialogue and MSZP.]] to provide for the possibility of accelerating the procedure of the Legislative Committee and the possibility of maintaining the amending proposal with changes in order to simplify the committee's decision-making procedure. The proposal would extend the scope and scope of the Legislative Committee by carrying out the series of discussions and decisions in order to relieve the burden of Parliament's plenary session. There are pragmatic and forward-looking considerations on this House's table in order to facilitate the plenary decision-making mechanism and to ensure the final coherence of the laws adopted. It is of particular importance that the bill would allow the decision requiring a qualified majority to cover, at the same time, the fundamentality clause of the bill, which will prevent the clause from remaining in the legal text adopted if the provision requiring a qualified majority is rejected. [[12.10]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal also aims to create relations that embody the electoral will expressed in the general election of Members of Parliament during the formation of a political group. This means that, in the future, the representative who has obtained the mandate can carry out his mandate in the colours or independence of the party that he has obtained from the voters. The regulation of the composition of the political groups in this way will help even more to picture the parties that have started the elections and their balance of power. According to the amendment, therefore, the possibility of joining the political groups at a later stage during the term of office of Parliament for a Member who did not participate in the formation of a political group has ceased to exist or has been excluded from a political group. The scope of the provision covers both an independent candidate for a mandate in the elections and a candidate for a party, but a non-member of the political group in that party. It should also be mentioned here that the political group can only be formed by the same name as the nominating organisation. Ladies and Gentlemen, I also think it is important to stress that, thanks to this proposal, the issue of the strong order of the factions with the same number of representatives in the ad hoc resolution of the Committee on Justice of the Parliament on 25 May 2018 will be regulated at house level. The proposal seeks to remedy the shortcomings of the house rules that have not yet been regulated by the details of the exercise of powers concerning the person of the President of the Republic and other public officials elected by the Parliament. It is also for simplification to shape the negotiating rules of the budgetary procedure and of the draft international treaties into practical needs. The amendments concerning the order of speeches at meetings include, in particular, clarifications and, secondly, broaden and complete the powers of national representatives and advocates. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is also important to point out that the proposal states that amendments to the proposal for an amending proposal for an amendment which is duly extended will be discussed only by a committee that has tabled the proposal for an over-extensive amendment. The two proposals on the House's table, ladies and gentlemen, which intend to amend the Parliamentary Act on the one hand and the HSZ on the other, provide an appropriate basis for ensuring the smooth, efficient and fundamental functioning of the main representative body of our country, while maintaining dignity. Don't forget. The constitutional interest in democracy is to protect the authority of the legislative authority. In view of the events of the past period, it is important that we use the instruments of legislation to act in order to preserve the dignity of the Parliament. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, I ask that you support the legislative amendment proposal as well as the proposal for a resolution. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports both. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-20-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, lead speaker of the MSZP Group, who feels that he would like to speak about the pulpit. Here you go. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth enters the speaker's stand.]]
u2019-11-20-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I came out here to the pulpit as long as I could, until this was withdrawn from opposition representatives, factions leaders. [[Congrats and intervention in the benches of Fidesz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that authority can be earned, but never enforced. We have heard international examples, there are international examples, but it seems to me that all the elements of the international examples have been highlighted, put into this bill and doubled the sentences, but I also see that according to international examples, there has not been such a case in the examples of the rotting West that Parliament has adopted these rules as a one-party dictatorship. These were preceded by the conciliation of the parties then sitting there, and they formed a consensus on the functioning of the Western European parliaments. So this is once again a peculiarity that is unique only to the Hungarian Parliament. But perhaps it has not happened in Western parliaments, as my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, mentioned here, in addition to commenting, that a slave law would have been put before these parliaments which had thrown fully vulnerable workers into the hands of the multinationals. And it is, in fact, this slave law that is a symbol of your politicalization, which is linked to the distorted social image that you represent in economic policy, support policy, budget policy, because you want to increase GDP growth even more by eviscerating Hungarian workers to build more stadiums, make more prestige investments and bring more back home. It is symbolic that, today, on 20 November, the Parliament will begin to negotiate the proposal of Fidesz on the violation of the rights of its representatives, since on the same day, the amendment of the Labour Code, which the common language called the slave law, was tabled on 20 November 2018. And as much as it pains you, this proposal was the one against which the opposition unit was formed in Parliament, formed on the street, and which eventually led to the 13th October, the municipal elections and the victories there. In the opposition alliance, we broke Fidesz's sovereignty in the capital city, in the districts, in the majority of county-righted cities and in many settlements. The slave law was a prime example of what has been represented by government work over the past nine years. Instead of a government proposal, individual representatives were tabled as a motion, without prior social consultation, revitalizing the most repulsive traditions of politicalism, and, above all, putting the broad masses of Hungarian workers in a more vulnerable position. Yet, the event was not primarily memorable because of this shameful intention. Rather, it has made the political world outside the Fidesz-KDNP aware of the importance of cooperation. The signal was given by Imre Komjathi, vice-president of the MSZP, in the demonstration of the trade unions announced on 8 December, by showing his own safety and despite the government ban, he continued to protest at Kossuth Square. On 10 December, we tried to hinder the vote of the shameful slave law with 2,900 amendments. Two days later, on the day of the Parliament's meeting on 12 December, as a sign of our protest, although firmly but without any violence, we blocked the path to the presidential pulpit, hindering the adoption of the law, and as much as it pains you, I am personally proud of it to this day, and if I had to do it again, I would do it today. In essence, the entire opposition has joined our action, creating the possibility of a cross-party opposition alliance. We now know that this cooperation has become the basis for the autumn municipal election result that has brought down the central force field, which has been believed to be unwavering. Fidesz-KDNP has lost control of the Metropolitan Municipality, with the support of the Budapest districts and the majority of the county-righted cities of the country. [[A voice from the opposition benches: That's right!]] [[12.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Let it be clear to everyone: the proposal before us, the proposal to limit the rights of representatives, is the revenge of Fidesz. The truth is that you are offended by the electorate, and this is how you want revenge on us, opposition representatives, but also through us, on the electorate. Fidesz is now trying to avenge this electoral will, rush, hack; this is very childish behavior. The laws restricting the functioning of the municipalities, the amendments to attack judicial independence and the proposals to regulate opposition representatives show that Fidesz learned nothing from October 13. These proposals show that paranoia soon dominated the party by László Kövér's words, because in these matters the Fat's position prevails: trash with the system of brakes and balances, trash with the fundamental rights of its representatives! I would also like to make it clear here: the MSZP considers any tightening up which further limits the powers of Members to control their freedom of expression and executive power, the functioning of local governments and judicial independence to be unacceptable. I understand that László Kövér, President of the Parliament and Fidesz could not swallow the opposition to the outrageous slave law, but it is unacceptable that revenge first takes place in static procedures and penalties, and now in restrictions on the rights of representatives. If not from anywhere else, Hungarian history would tell us that only hard responses to anti-democratic governance and power can be created. These answers will be born. Ladies and gentlemen, I advise the pro-state lords not to blame the voters for having decided in many places that enough of the fidesz little kings, enough of the orange rule, enough of the theft, enough of the winery. Think about it and try to take action and policy in the interests of people for once. I may not need to remind anyone of the original function of the Parliament, which is based on the principle of popular representation, which includes the task of monitoring the government in a broad sense. I have also included the possibility of raising awareness and turning to the public about the maladministration identified. A two-thirds parliamentary mandate in an otherwise manipulated and distorted election campaign does not mean that the pro-government majority is always right about everything. And the opposition at all times is not only the most sacred right, but it is also the duty of the Hungarian electorate to draw the attention of all the illegal or even legitimate abuses, problems, problems that he experiences inside and outside the Parliament building. We know that some of the last remaining bastions of the rule of law, such as independent Hungarian courts or free press, today's form of freedom of expression, are not to your liking. The European Union initiative to make the rule of law a condition for EU assistance to prepare a report on the rule of law for countries has just been voted out. This is a direct admission that there is no rule of law in Hungary. The developments we are now seeing are far from unprecedented, as already in 2014 there were several indications that the pro-government majority was not changing house rules according to professional considerations, but in the direction that best suits their own interests. Typically, this was referred to by the motion to adopt a derogation from the house rules in a specific form, as here the four fifth majority now refers to the Members present and not to the elected Members. Similarly, the hand of the governing party was leaned towards itself, even when the governing majority, which could hardly be called a saint, conferred the governing president with the right to vote in any case, not only in the event of equality of votes, so he wished to secure the two thirds of Parliament at that time. In addition to what has been said, there have, of course, been a number of other developments and proposals aimed at reducing parliamentary control efficiency. Such was the idea of the government's proposals in the form of a separate motion by its representatives, as was the idea of the slave law, thus saving the professional and inter-ministerial negotiations required under the legislative law. In fact, the government is using its parliamentary representatives to bring the uncontested legislation before the Parliament. It was also not exactly the public that the time-framed debates for the night would take place today on issues such as the Labour Code, a major amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, and a popular initiative that were unpleasant for the parties to the government. Parliament's debates regularly fell to late nights, nights, far beyond the television broadcasting period that was still in operation. I could continue the line by blocking the formation of a committee of inquiry that would be unpleasant to the government, by evacuating the meetings of the House Committee or by restricting the two-minute speeches, which was also adopted during the previous parliamentary term. In hindsight, however, I have to say that those who worked at the time to strengthen the over-extensive power of the majority of governments could today be no more than initial footmen compared to the drafters of the proposal currently under discussion. The amendments in front of us are far from coy, not just furry, but in some small details they try to polish the house rules for pro-government factions. The current proposals are no longer a scalpel, but a direct ax to the powers of the opposition MP, the rights that are not only an essential condition of opposition politics, but a centuries-old history in the history of Hungarian parliamentarism. It has become quite clear that the petitioners of the proposal consider Parliament to be necessary only in order to maintain the appearance of the rule of law, rather as a necessary evil. This approach is becoming increasingly close to an ever-increasing reduction in parliamentary democracy and, on the other hand, an open denial of the independence of the parliament, which is still an independent power at constitutional level. It would be difficult to mention each point in a single speech of the amendments in question, but I am merely attempting to briefly sum up the proposals that we are most unacceptable, thus trying to limit the rights of opposition representatives. The right of free entry of a Member of Parliament into the territory of public administrations and public institutions will be abolished. It may not be necessary to say that, of all the proposals, this is the biggest change in the status of opposition representatives. So far, the strongest weapon of a Member of Parliament providing his control rights was perhaps that if any office, authority or other body operating under government control experienced lawlessness, abuse, he could appear there in person in advance, without notice, and could enter the territory of public administrations, public institutions and ask for information. This right has not been questioned by any government in the history of modern Hungarian democracy, so it is no coincidence that I consider this proposal to be the most shameful point of the proposal. The intention is, of course, completely understandable from the point of view of Fidesz-KDNP, as it is an inconvenience to all government actors in their efforts to control its actions. It is quite obvious that if the independent Hungarian court refused to say that the representatives of opposition representatives, including the Hungarian Socialist Party, were illegally staying in the headquarters of MTVA, then they will attempt to prohibit the possibility of opposition control by amending legislation. This also limits legal certainty. It is unacceptable that they want to restrict the public by referring the debate on the inclusion of motions in the series of proposals to the Legislative Committee, since it is already possible for the opposition proposals to be voted out in committee, at least to present its own proposals to voters in cases of real social problems, here in Parliament. This option will now be removed and these requests for inclusion will be referred to the Legislative Committee, such as our proposal for further reduction of the rent, which has now been voted off for the eleventh time. It is also unacceptable to limit hearings in committee to this extent, since committees, as policy organisations for Parliament, are also meant to monitor the functioning of the government and the functioning of other public bodies. This eliminates the possibility of subpoenaing anyone there and listening to him about a particular problem. You cannot participate in the formation of an independent or independent political group, and you will no longer be able to join it, your motion will be made. As we all know, the number of members of a faction and the membership of a Member in a faction is an administrative issue that is far from irrelevant. [[12.30]] There are a number of rights linked to it, speaking over time, functions in committees, and a number of other issues. The aim of the measure must also be to cause inconvenience to non-governmental factions and parliamentary representatives, since we do not see a reasonable reason in this proposal. The brutal rate of withdrawal of the fee. Here they referred to international examples, these international examples contain half as much punishment as your proposal, which is actually about how a renegade Member can be deprived of his livelihood. I understand that in the system of national cooperation you care for each other, we have seen a number of examples of this: a failed Member of Parliament, resigned some kind of leader. We have seen how Fidesz party soldiers, which are now leaking out of the local government, are located in the public sphere, in government offices or in other organizations, which are still managed by Fidesz. So you always take care of your own. Imagine that a large part of the opposition representatives, a significant majority of them, because of the conflict of interest rules you have introduced, make a living on this salary. In fact, they threaten the Members of Parliament with their existence, livelihoods, and inability to support their families. Thank God, this network of national cooperation does not overlap the opposition. So much of the opposition representatives live on this salary, which is what you want to take away for up to a year and risk their livelihood to the Members. There is only one penalty more shameful to the petitioners, the expulsion of the MP from the Parliament and the Office of Parliament. I find the notion that there are people among us who think that they can override the will of Hungarian voters to do so. You are submitting this draft legislation on the basis of the decision of the Hungarian voters by including the possibility of excluding Members of Parliament elected by the electorate. How can a Member of Parliament be banned for up to two months from his work and not only from the Parliament, but also from the Parliament's Office, from his own office? I find it totally unacceptable that there is any reason for such a measure and that anyone doubts the electoral decision. However, millions of voters voted for opposition representatives, which should be respected. With regard to the absences of Members, I share the opinion of my better fellow Member that it is okay, by the way, to go to Parliament to vote, to proceed, to attend meetings, there is only one major problem with this, that the so-called certificate of absence can be assessed by the speaker's subjective. So, on what basis will the otherwise demanding and now forcing Speaker, who considers a mobile phone a weapon of mass destruction, be weighed and still has one? He'll decide who's legally missing, who's not. This is also a factor of uncertainty for opposition representatives, which has no objective conditions. This provision is therefore unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who says anything, refers to any international example, this legislation narrows down the substance of the work of representatives, these provisions often make the work of representatives impossible. They limit both the right to be present and the right to express their views. Disciplinary penalties are not in line with previous rules and even the constitutional rules on public actors, in international comparison, which I have already referred to, are much more serious. It is quite clear that right now I would like to cut the reins short, and now they want to use all available means to rattle opposition representatives before their activities can put doubt in more voters about the government's activities. Dear fellow Members, You may be able to do a lot of things here at the Parliament right now, but don't forget that nothing lasts forever. Do not think that they can break our commitment to democracy, the rule of law, a fairer society, the restoration and creation of a state of chance. I can't do this! You know, if you try to discipline opposition representatives with such violence, then, believe me, this will bring opposition factions into an even stronger alliance. This opposition unit will not break down from this draft legislation or any other experiment. This will last until 2022. And one thing I can personally guarantee: if there is a change of government and there will be a majority in Parliament, then we will abolish the rules restricting Members' rights, because that is what the rule of law and democracy require. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-20-49	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-20-50	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, When we are discussing the bill before us today, we must first understand the motive. The reason why and how this proposal came before Parliament. At first, they said, and Vice-President Hende has tried to do so today, that this proposal is basically necessary because it has been so long since been overruled by the House Rules and the Act on the Functioning of Parliament, and it is just now your time, and they have just felt inspired to bring this proposal forward. I must say that this has also been denied by our fellow authors, since they both referred to 12 December and to the parliamentary functioning of the opposition. I would add that the question still arises of how they could live with this terrible burden for six months. If the functioning of the opposition, as Congressman Vejkey has said, is endangering the rule of law, have you not been disturbed by the violation of the rule of law for six months, almost a year? Didn't it bother you that democracy is in danger? How could they sleep in peace? Don't be ridiculous. And I can't believe you're so scared of Congressman Hadházy's board that that's why it's now. That is not the case, honourable Members. Let me be perfectly clear, this bill is born and it is now being born because you are frightened. They were afraid that the country's voters had shown in many places that the power of Fidesz was not unbreakable. They were scared that voters proved that they couldn't intimidate everyone, that they couldn't buy everyone. They've proven they don't want what you do in many places in this country. You're afraid and you're trying to show strength in your fear. They're trying to intimidate us, and they're trying to punish our constituents. Because our constituents are being punished by this, no misunderstanding, the voters who sent us to this parliament. When we lose the right to express our opinion in Parliament, when we lose the right to monitor the government's work, our voters are deprived of the right to be represented in the House of the country. You refer very much to the authority of the Parliament. Do you know what harms the authority of the Parliament? I'll tell you this: for example, this week the Parliament is negotiating 37 legislative proposals. Now, that's bad for the authority of Parliament, because it's not legislating, it's not representing voters, it's a law factory. By the way, it's a lot more than 37 laws, because it's full of salad laws where 12 laws are sometimes amended. When the Prime Minister says to an immediate question, "Merry Christmas," that's bad for the authority of the Parliament. When written questions are given meaningless answers, it harms the authority of the Parliament. When ministers of state and members of government insult Parliament's authority instead of giving a meaningful answer. When you submit questions of art in which opposition politicians and non-governmental actors otherwise indefensible are abused, it harms the authority of the Parliament. [[12.40]] When the debate of this bill is scheduled to begin the debate in Parliament at 11 a.m. according to the current schedule, it will harm the authority of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, That's what's bad for the authority of the Parliament! It is when Parliament does not meet for months before the elections to the European Parliament and to the local government, so that the government is not accountable for the opposition's refusal to give its opinion. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame, shame!]] It's bad for the authority of the National Assembly. If the authority of the Parliament is important to you, do not deal with the law on the Parliament, but sit down, look inside and think about how to restore the authority of the Parliament. There was also a way to do this in the context of this law, because you refer to international examples here, only to forget that most countries have house rules or, where there are no house rules, customary law has been established by the fact that Members of Parliament and the parliamentary sites have taken part in this and have developed a stable system through cycles. When you didn't even try to negotiate, when you brought in this bill, you told me that you didn't give a shit about the authority of Parliament, that's not important. It's like during a soccer game break, a team that takes a goal will rewrite the rules and forbid the other team to cross the score line and score a goal. Ladies and gentlemen, But this is Mr Máté Kocsis, who, I see, is no longer showing any interest in the rest of the debate, thus proving to him the importance of the opinion of the opposition and the authority of the Parliament, he said what he thought was acceptable to a Member and how a Member should behave. I'd like to tell you that this is none of his business. He can give instructions on how to behave in the Fidesz fraction and probably in the KDNP fraction, but we're not in charge. We weren't chosen to follow his orders. We were not chosen to nod kindly within the framework of the system of national cooperation. You also refer very much to unprecedented events in this House. Let me get you some quotes. I quote from Bertalan Andrásfalvy's speech, Minister of Culture and Public Education, from Parliament's record, because it is only from a credible source, February 25, 1992: Do you know who that faction leader was? Viktor Orbán, leader of the Fidesz faction. If you think I was wrong, let me bring you another quote from the Parliament meeting on June 10, 1991. Congressman Emil Bogdán speaks, 'This is what I wanted to say. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us consider that, in my view, none of the opposition representatives in this Parliament would object in this way to shouting at religious sensitivity, but I must say that, indeed, the Fidesz Members themselves have made abundant use of this instrument, which is now being ordered to be punished in the new House Rule and Parliamentary Law. Of course, our fellow Members may not know this, as Mr Csaba Hende was an official of the Antall government at this time, Mr János Halász is the politician of SZDSZ [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's it.]] And Mr.Máté Kocsis had only dreamed of once starting his political career in the youth department of MIÉP. But the fact is that there was a time when Fidesz knew what parliamentary traditions were. Interrogation, expression of opinion is part of the Hungarian parliamentary tradition, I do not dispute it, under civilised circumstances, but it is not your job to decide when it is civilized and when it is not. It is not your job to decide whether the Members of Parliament will use their freedom of speech for good or for evil. Let me take a much older example. Almost 115 years ago, in 1904, the so-called handkerchief vote took place in Parliament on 18 November. You know what that was? When the Speaker of that time, István Tisza, was satisfied with the opposition's dissembling, obstructing parliamentary debates, and also because the rights of the Parliament had not been taken into account by the then housekeeping, he adopted, with an immediate vote, a bill which significantly restricts the rights of Members of Parliament. To add, our opposition fellow Members at the time were not as gentle as we were, because in the next parliamentary session they broke the entire equipment, but don't worry about it, today's opposition is a non-violence principle against our fidesz fellow Members who drag others away from the holy person of the Prime Minister. But I didn't set this example to make it look like a follow-up, because I hope we don't get this far. I took it as an example because I would like to say that what led to the opposition's loud opposition was that the government side ignored opposition rights. And do you know where this policy has led? The tragedy that World War I and Trianon had. The rights of the opposition have been removed for the sake of a bad policy, and that is exactly what you are doing. They don't want us to talk about what's going on in the country, they don't want us to be able to contradict them when they push bill proposals at a forced pace, they don't want us to be able to intervene when they violate their rights to the Members of Parliament and the voters behind them. That's why I need you to shut up! This is why they want us to be legally forced not to do our duty, because if we are talking about 12 December, then let us also remember how we got to 12 December, Mr Bertalan Tóth has already explained in detail that you were the first force to close the general debate against house rules. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] Secondly, it was prevented from voting on the amendments tabled by the opposition, and then we came to the conclusion that a bill that was obviously forced out of house by the House was protested by the opposition against this vote. And I must say that we have done the right thing, and so we will do next time, because when you destroy our rights, you will destroy our electorate's rights, and we are responsible for them, and not for you, understand that. They can make any laws here, we answer to our constituents, and we want to live up to them. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Dialogue and LMP.]] Let me give you a few specific examples, three in total. One of them is the case of disciplinary penalties, this is the 18th. §. The problem is not that there are disciplinary rules, although Máté Kocsis was very clear from this point of view, because he said that what was forbidden until now is forbidden. He forgot to add that from here on out, what was free will be forbidden. That's the difference. [[Csaba Hende: No! No! No!]] Of course, I know, by the way, that there was a time in the House when there was order in the House, according to your concept, when the opposition didn't yell or speak to it, or even better, there was no opposition from about 1949 until 1988-89. This is your idea of Parliament, this is the kind of parliament you imagine. We also see that the duration of Parliament's meetings is being shortened, and Parliament is only coming together for a few weeks. You are dreaming of a parliament where only you are in there, where no one yells, no one interrupts, where the processes go smoothly, and you can complete the whole legislative program in a week. The problem, therefore, is that this is a series of rubber rules with regard to disciplinary powers and disciplinary powers. For example, in connection with these interventions, he said that he was disturbing the driving of the seat to an extreme extent and the seat. How do we know what the scale is? Well, the president will decide. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Comrade Fat!]] The President will decide, let's say, László Kövér, if this is the example that my fellow Member has given us, what is extremely disturbing to him. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Comrade Master!]] As I see it, for example, President Fat has a lot on his mind, including the existence of the opposition as a whole, so I think we will fall very quickly into this kind of disciplinary punishment. I could name these rules endlessly. Each of the following points is constantly unimportant and unnecessarily severely penalizes various behaviours without otherwise substantial guarantees. I'm sorry, but the fact that you can go to the immunity committee, half of which is fidesz, and then you can come to Parliament, where you are otherwise blindsided by any such motion, is not a legal guarantee, the highest leaf, but it is even transparent over the open dictatorship and direct presidential rights. I would also like to point out that the fairness of this right to housekeeping is well demonstrated in the Hadházy case, when Congressman Hadházy received a fine of 330,000 forints for insubordination, the Fidesz MEPs who, by fidesz force, dragged him away with good, fidesz physical violence, took away his tablets and those who took 50,000 forints. [[12.50]] Now, that's your moral code, which is what they're asking for in this bill, basically a blank check. It is quite clear that disciplinary penalties are not only in line with previous legislation and established practice, nor are they contrary to the constitutional rules of public actors on freedom of expression, nor are they contrary to the judgments of the Strasbourg Court which have repeatedly condemned Mr Speaker. These penalties are neither necessary nor proportionate, and the restriction of the freedom of expression and of action of Members is not in line with the objective they want to achieve. [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] I understand that your souls are sensitive, but bear with the fact that there are others here besides you. Mr Bertalan Tóth has mentioned this, but I would also like to stress that the rule which makes it possible to ban Members of Parliament from the building of Parliament and the Office is particularly worrying. This means that they will take away the opportunity for Members to do their job. They're taking away the right and duty to represent their constituents. This means that you are violating the right of voters who have sent these Members here. You're taking representation from these voters in this Parliament because you don't like something. Finally, let me say one more thing on the same subject: demoting notaries to police officers. Because we will listen to whether it pleases Mrs Housekeeper to have her duties of law enforcement from here on out, but it is certain that the notaries, according to the Hungarian parliamentary tradition, do not take it; they are not scheduled to take action against Members. It is for the notaries to guarantee or assist in the proper management of the meeting, and their job is to guarantee the authenticity of the minutes. This is the Hungarian parliamentary tradition. The great notaries who were ahead of us in this task worked in this spirit. You are saying that it is the job of the notaries to stand up to other Members and to give them a mandate immediately, which is about whether or not to violate the rights of other Members. Ladies and gentlemen, That is not why the electorate sent us Parliament's opposition notaries to take the rights away from other Members. That's not what we do in this Parliament! Let me move on to the second subject: this is a limitation of the right to information. You require that the right of Members of Parliament to enter public institutions be abolished at the time of the change of regime. Yes, Congressman Máté Kocsis, there are Members who go to a public institution even at dawn, because they work for their constituents at dawn, no matter how surprising. And yes, a public institution must also inform Parliamentary Members of its operation at dawn, not because Members should have special rights, but because the Member represents his constituents when he asks for information. And what you are reading here is that, of course, you will be informed after prior consultation, my fellow Members, I almost said wrong about what this is worth. Let me give you an example. This summer, I sent a letter to all the school district leaders, alive with my right to inform me of how many teachers are missing from the education system, since KLIK and the Ministry refuse to tell me that. Ladies and gentlemen, There were two school district leaders who probably didn't get their instructions in time and gave a fair, fair professional response. Apart from them, all the other places had the same line of text about asking the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, Your government, your people abuse this right, and you do not comply with your legal obligations. You are now covering this with this rule. By removing the right to freely enter public institutions from opposition representatives, they symbolically express that state power, government power, through its legislators and representatives, are superior to electoral control. You're telling voters that you don't have the right, through your representatives, to check what we're doing in a hospital, in a school, in an office or in public media. You tell them we don't care what you think of us. Finally, let me also mention what is going on with the individual Members' motions. Mr Bertalan Tóth has already mentioned, and I also agree with him, that on the one hand they will make it easier, because so far it has been the case that if a committee did not wish to put on the agenda a proposal for a resolution or a bill with the opposition proposals, with one exception, this has always happened in this term, then the political group could ask the plenary session of Parliament to decide on this. You will now send this to the Legislative Committee, which, in addition to making it easier for them to do so and making it impossible for this Parliament to at least have a way of telling the Member concerned why he or she is proposing this or that thing, even if you do not listen to it very much, because I do not see you here in these otherwise humiliating debates on Monday, which also humiliatingly timed the authority of Parliament for nights, only opposition representatives are interested in what your fellow Members are proposing, but there is still a very important consequence, honourable Members. From this point on, you will not have to press a button to give the sick children medicine; to finally be transparent and to be made public by the agents; to raise the family allowance, and to continue. This rule is to ensure that you do not have to take responsibility for refusing to enter into an important public debate. This is for you to hide from your own constituents. This rule also restricts the right of voters. They limit the right of voters to know your position on important issues; to justify why they do not support this or that proposal. This proposal not only violates democracy, it destroys not only the authority of Parliament, but also a coward. In conclusion, my fellow Members, I can therefore say that this bill has only one purpose to demonstrate strength after the municipal election failure and to try to intimidate and destroy the opposition. But I want to make it clear that this is not going to work. Like a god, like a tooth. We would be happy to participate constructively in Parliament's work, and we would be happy to have substantive debates here, if, for example, the legislative proposals that are important to the opposition electorate were given sufficient time to prepare; if, for example, the amendments were not defeated in committee without a substantive debate. But if they do not allow us to have a substantive debate in plenary and in committee meetings, if they do not allow the opposition's opinion to reach voters, then we will find the means to express our opinion. And I must tell you that this is not in the interests of the country. It would be in the interests of the country to allow the opposition to operate and defend its position with arguments. The problem is, they don't have any arguments anymore. The problem is that they can hardly say anything that would appeal to voters. Even their last hate-cars have gone off, and that's why they're moving forward to restrict the debate and silence the opposition. But this will not succeed, we are not responsible for you; we are not accountable to you, but to our constituents and our conscience, and we will do everything that our constituents and our conscience require. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-51	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-52	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Here among the last speakers, I think it is absolutely justified to refer back to what was said in this extremely important debate. I also think it is important to refer to the circumstances under which this debate is taking place. The viewers may not be able to see the television or the Internet broadcast, but all the ministerial velvet chairs are empty, so at this very important debate there is no minister, no State Secretary; there is no Prime Minister, but there is no Speaker, which I think is an extremely symbolic step, that this extremely important debate does not interest the Speaker of Parliament. [[13.00]] KDNP's faction leader is not here; Máté Kocsis, the Fidesz faction leader has just returned to the room. [[Máté Kocsis with his hands raised: long ago!]] Yes, I can see that you are here, and I can see the faction leader, but I am also very pleased that you are back at the meeting, that Máté Kocsis is here at the meeting, because he too, as the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, as a faction leader, Mr János Halász and the rapporteur, proved in a few minutes that this bill is based on lies. In a recent case, Ákos Hadházy was referred to, and that is why, this was the most important reason why you put forward this extremely important, comprehensive proposal. They said that there was a case that you considered unacceptable, and that it was necessary to amend the house rules, to make harsh amendments to the possibility of Members of Parliament working in order to prevent such cases. Well, that in itself proves that this whole procedure that you have put forward is a lie, and this proposal is also a lie. We know precisely that if they considered this procedure to be in breach of house rules and that this procedure had been unduly prevented by Ákos Hadházy from declaring the Prime Minister, then there would have been rules, rules now in force, to make order. You did not use these rules, so you did not even think about applying these rules, and this is how you give the Prime Minister the opportunity to continue his speech. But what happened to that well - known or scandalous incident? We have seen that Ákos Hadházy held up some signs, demonstrating as a Member of Parliament, which is what many Hungarian people think in this country. First of all, the Prime Minister started wrestling with Ákos Hadházy, trying to take that tablet away by force. Then the Prime Minister lost this wrestling, failed to take away the sign, and then, seeing this, some pro-government representatives jumped up and came to the pulpit like a bouncer and took that sign from him by force. Well, this tells the Fidesz a lot about his commitment to democracy, that they have not come to their senses to act by applying the existing rules in force, preserving the dignity of the Parliament; you have watched without a word, using violence, I repeat: as a bouncer, Christian-conservative, Christian-conservative Members who consider themselves Christian-conservative, come here and use violence in the building of the Hungarian Parliament. I think it tells me everything about your credibility. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] But there were also very important speeches here, to which I would like to refer. We have heard from Congressman Imre Vejkey, the KDNP, that we have seen here again in connection with the speech of the leader of the Jobbik Group, that I quote, we have seen a rough provocation, and that is what has happened. Well, I agree, Congressman, that there has been a harsh provocation, because the president-in-Office has set the prospect of closing the meeting without telling us exactly what house violations have been done. One of the Members sat in a chair, which in no way violates the house rules, and the President-in-Office had the prospect of stopping the meeting. I think that was a really rude provocation. I am pleased that the President-in-Office was not so consistent and, after all, he did not take this opportunity and that debate could continue. I would also like to refer to one of Imre Vejkey's important speeches, who said that the future of our children and grandchildren is at stake. I totally agree with that. I, too, am a father of two children, and I am also motivated to play a political role in trying to participate in the governance of the country, in a way that we try to participate in public life in order to ensure the future of our children. And, yes, when you put laws before the Parliament, or are pursuing policies that forced hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands of others to leave the country when thousands of families are being torn apart, I think that a Member who takes your sentence seriously will sometimes disregard the house rules and, if necessary, for the sake of the nation, for the sake of the future of our children. I think that this package, which you have tabled, is, to say, a recognition from you to the opposition representatives, and I think that I can say from all my opposition fellow Members that we are up to your exercise of law, and that this package will in no way affect our work. Well, let's be specific about the proposal. We have read the reasoning, we have seen the reasoning of the rapporteur, the group leader and the Members, the purpose of this proposal, but I think that they have not discussed exactly the point, how and how they are trying to limit the work of opposition representatives, how they are trying to limit the work of the Parliament, and how they are trying to reduce its possibilities again, in my opinion, in a way that violates authority. But let us see exactly what these proposals are about, what they are really about, and what this debate is about. They are talking about preserving the House's authority, the dignity of the House. [[István Németh Szilárd comes into the Chamber and takes his place next to Szabó Timea. The papers of Szabó Timea also occupy the table in front of István Szilárd Németh, which István Németh speaks. There will be a few minutes of argument between them. Bence Tordai is heading towards Timea Szabó and István Szilárd Németh. Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] There were also many examples here of the need to prevent opposition representatives from making a scandal here during the functioning of Parliament. We have also heard, in recent days, as a reason for this package of measures, that your intention, at least your intention to preserve it, must be to protect the functioning of public institutions. And here I have heard from Congressman János Halász during today's debate that the traditions of Hungarian parliamentarism must be restored, and that is why we need these proposals, these extremely harsh restrictions. Well, what we can see is that it may not even be worth opening a debate in this regard, that this package of proposals, which lies before us, is not only decades of time, but still visible in the era of dualism and in the period between the two world wars, excluding rights, tools and traditions from the functioning of Parliament, so tools, parliamentary instruments that have always been legitimate, and we have seen many times in history or even in the period after the regime change, that they have been used when it was actually necessary. So what Mr Fisherman has said is also a lie in himself. It is also, I think, that it can be quite clear to all Hungarian voters that such cases were not very common in the history of post-regime parliamentarism, but there were indeed such cases. There was a situation where the Jobbik faction took over the pulpit in connection with the land law. I think that this was also a very good stand; yes, national interests [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] in order to protect it, a measure that was a direct betrayal of the interests of the nation, indeed, the courageous representatives took all the consequences and bravely stood up for the rights of the Hungarian people, in violation of the house rules. I think that they should be praised for this, and they cannot in any way justify this act by introducing such restrictive measures. But likewise, many of my fellow Members have mentioned the case of the so-called slave law or overtime law. Here again, I would like to refer you back to Congressman Vejkey: yes, the future of our children is at stake. So when you put the profit interests of large companies, multinational companies, above the rights of Hungarian workers, when you are already pursuing a policy based on low Hungarian wages, this is how you try to deliver workers, the direct consequence of which is emigration. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: That's not true!]] Then I think that there is a place for protests of this kind. But what we have seen is that violence has not been used by Members, and I think that since then Hungarian society has pretty much proved or confirmed that this action was important, it has given the opposition's sentimental voters faith again, and they have started to trust the opposition policy again, and the result has been much later, the opposition success achieved in the municipal elections, in many places, but in any case the clearly visible reorganization of the power relations. So what I am saying is that the case that many of my pro-government fellow Members, on 12 December of the last year, mentioned as a negative example by many of my pro-government fellow Members, I also think that it was a brave stand on the part of the opposition representatives. We ourselves have sworn to represent the interests of the nation, and I believe that this oath is more important, even stronger than the house rules, than a house rule that we say you want to tighten up. Once again, the credibility of the government representatives, the authors' intentions: the main reason, as I have already said, is to defend the dignity of this House. Well, I think there are very few people in this country who think that this is actually the intention of the pro-government Members to preserve the dignity of this House. Several of my fellow Members have already made specific references to what events have taken place and how Parliament has been operating specifically since 2010. My fellow Members, we can see many times that you do not participate in substantive debates, most of the most important debates go down by the fact that there are hardly any Fidesz Members in the Chamber, or even if you are present, you are checking phones, pushing laptops, taking notes. [[Máté Kocsis points to the opposition benches.]] And I think that even now, if I look through the room, in the highest proportion, Mr. Group Leader, the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP are missing a quick calculation, and that will soon confirm the credibility of what you have said. But I don't think it's possible for us to argue that if we look at the activity of Members on the basis of objective figures, the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP are typically the least active, they are the ones who usually press a button according to faction discipline and instructions, they don't participate in the debate, or even if they're sitting here physically, many people don't know much respect for the exception! About what's happening around them. I therefore believe that this attitude, the perception of the role of representatives in this way, is fundamentally a violation of the dignity of the Parliament. You have not been present on an extraordinary meeting day for a very, very long time, there have been no committee of inquiry for many years, we have seen many examples of your absence making committee meetings impossible, so you cannot start committee meetings, because there are simply no pro-government representatives coming. [[13.10]] How cynical it is that many times they tell you in advance that everyone should expect that there will be no meaningful work there. Of course, the salary will be taken. It has been mentioned, fellow Members, that they regularly use the means to put important, lively debates in the hours of the night, thus concealing it from the public. Doesn't that violate the dignity of the Parliament, this kind of attitude? ! Is reducing the public in this way, with such cynical means, not a violation of Parliament's dignity? ! Perhaps you have also mentioned, my fellow Member, Arató, that they really do function as lawmakers a lot. We have seen over the past period, seeing that the session is about to end, legislative proposals have been put forward in huge quantities, and they will run after it to improve the impact of poor quality legislation. It has also been mentioned, fellow Members, that we experience very, very many times, and we can even say that this is almost a legal part of the government's parliamentary work, that they are barely responding. There are hardly any State Secretarys to answer questions that have been asked clearly; they have very important tasks as State Secretary of State, and they are trying to respond to opposition issues with party politics. My fellow Members, my fellow members of the Government, the opposition representatives are not necessarily here, obviously in the colors of parties, most of them came in here to carry out party-political blade changes. We ask questions so that we can see what is happening and represent the interests of the Hungarian people as much as possible. It is also his duty to answer the questions asked by the State Secretarys, pro-government representatives, prime ministers, ministers and the Prime Minister. Because basically they do not belong to us, but to the Hungarian people. Yes, my fellow Member Arató mentioned the desecration of the operation of the Hungarian Parliament, the fact that the Prime Minister replied to my fellow Member Márta Demeter on a very important issue: "Happy Karáncsonyt!" A measure of this kind, fellow Members. As rapporteur, where does your proposal include that the Prime Minister of Hungary should not be able to do so, so that the Prime Minister of Hungary has to answer this question? Where is it, which is exactly the point of your proposal or your proposal, which ensures that the Prime Minister will not then arrange the answer by saying "Merry Christmas!" What's the matter with you? That's not in your proposal. I don't think you can argue with me about that either. One of my fellow opposition Members has also mentioned that, yes, there have been cases where it is possible to argue that this is appropriate or inappropriate, obviously it is a matter of taste that, where appropriate, an awareness-raising action is worthy of the Hungarian Parliament or not. But such a question is, yes, rubber rules, yes, subjective decision-making is a faction or even a faction association, Fidesz-KDNP, that can't be verified. I took part in the meeting of the Judicial Committee myself, and there were several fellow Members, and I myself said that if they wanted to take measures of this kind, if they really wanted to take measures of this kind, if they were to do so at least partially, or if they were to do so, that a significant part of the Members could say that this really is not appropriate, that they would want to limit them, and in this way they would want to ensure the functioning of the Parliament, it would have been right to initiate a dialogue between factions and to try to obtain information and an opinion from the opposition groups on how they would see this. Obviously, the amendment and updating of such a procedure cannot be about a given parliamentary session, and, yes, it is quite unacceptable that such a regulation is presented towards the middle of the session, that it is completely transformed, let's say - rules and conditions. This is totally unacceptable! You had no intention of agreeing, no intention of doing so, no request to the leaders of the opposition factions. This also shows that it is completely uncredited by what you have put forward this outrageous bill. My fellow Members, I believe that if you have this intention in print, or these goals appear behind your intentions, and if you wish to restore the dignity of Parliament, to preserve and defend the dignity of Parliament, then take seriously your duties, be here in Parliament, participate in the debates, present proposals, discuss them in substance, and give the opportunity to debate the opposition proposals in substance, not only here, but also at the level of committee meetings. I have been told many times that I no longer want to repeat my fellow opposition Members, it is almost impossible for us to take a proposal on a substantive basis over the years, and there must be someone on the part of the government or of the ruling groups in a debate who wants to deal with these proposals in substance. You do not want to deal with these, obviously you want to solve everything by force, but this is again incompatible with what you have said: on the one hand, protecting the authority of Parliament, on the other hand, and again, I look at Congressman Vejkey to ensure the future of our children. Fellow Members! Several opposition representatives pointed out in their speech that the worst, most unacceptable point of this proposal is that the possibility for a Member of Parliament to enter a public institution without prior notice will be removed. Well, in fact, I agree that this is his worst point, and this is a point that they can't even explain in any way with what they said in the explanation. I think that there can be consensus between us, and obviously pro-government MEPs disagree with this, but that is the opinion of the majority of pro-government voters that corruption is today at historical level in Hungary, and it is the fundamental national interest to fight corruption by all means, corruption. It is indeed a very, very important instrument of this that Members of Parliament have the right to enter and obtain information in public institutions, unexpectedly, yes, without prior notice, and to use their rights against these possible corruption cases. This is not only the right of a Member, but also a very, very important duty. I very much hope that there will be a pro-government representative at a later stage in the debate, and that at least some sort of attempt to explain why this extremely harsh restrictive measure is needed, why they want to prevent public institutions using public funds being properly and effectively controlled by the Members of Parliament elected by the Hungarian people. Because proper and effective control cannot be done by prior notification. Please, whatever Member I am looking at, please try to explain this at least, perhaps as rapporteur Csaba Hende, because obviously this intention, this extremely harsh restriction, cannot be justified by a case or a case that you see this way, and others see it that way. I think that you are far too far out of line here, and that is an amazing and unacceptablely harsh restriction. I would like to mention the following case, which has also been mentioned in today's debate: indeed, there are a lot of measures that fundamentally affect our national interests, and you, let us say, do not want to hear about them in a substantive debate. There is no other option for the opposition than to bring them here to Parliament in six cases per parliamentary period, and here, even in a limited time, but at least a kind of debate can be held about this. This is the opportunity that you want to take away for good, and you want to put these debates back on the Legislative Committee. On the one hand, I think that it is completely unacceptable to restrict the public and narrow down the debate. The problem is that in many of these cases it will not be possible to vote for all Members on the proposals put forward by the opposition in this way. There are elected members of the Legislative Committee, but not all Members of Parliament, a significant majority of Members of Parliament are not members of the Legislative Committee. And in this way, when the opposition brings an important proposal to the plenary session for the Hungarian people, on the one hand, there will be a great many Members who would like to vote on such a proposal, but will not be able to do so, and in many cases we will be confronted with the fact that a great many Members should vote, it would be obliged to vote, thus complying with electoral demands, alive with the rights of their representatives and fulfilling their duties to vote on such a proposal. You are now sweeping this out of the House, limiting the possibility of that. The day before yesterday, we could have a relatively long debate on these specific proposals and, yes, for the twentieth time, we have tabled a proposal to explore the past of state security. You made a commitment in 2010 to solve this problem within a year and a half, and finally you will ensure the publicity of the agent files, the discovery of the state security past, but you have not done this in a cynical way. On the one hand, everyone in Hungary has learned that you have only lied to the anti-communist and thus hide the former maintainers of state security in their ranks. But the opposition took this step, and the LMP faction started this series at the time, and in this way we could at least begin the debate by inviting this proposal to the plenary session, and this debate, this initial debate, could take place at least twenty times so far. We can see that this debate is probably not going to be brought to the plenary session any more, on the one hand, clearly and clearly with your work so far, you have demonstrated that you have not in your mind the honour of revealing the memory of the victims in this way, but make it impossible for these debates to be held at least at this level at the meeting. [[13.20]] Not to mention that this is also a serious violation of the dignity of the Parliament, that when these debates took place, there were hardly a few opposition representatives present, and they did not, for example, speak to him during the last such debates, on any occasion, ask for a word to say their opinion that at least they would have said why they did not support the proposal or would have said that they had a better idea. Obviously, they couldn't have done that. So this is also an extremely harsh restriction on parliamentary work. And I do not think that at any level it can be combined even logically with the explanatory set of reasons that you have written in the proposal. What does this have to do with, therefore, why should the effectiveness of the plenary session be increased in this way, in a quotation sign, so that these extremely important debates concerning national interests are excluded from the plenary session, thereby excluding a significant part of the Members from these debates? And yes, my fellow Members have mentioned the shameful decisions, such as that which were also on the agenda on Monday, the state support for the treatment of children with rare diseases, when the situation is quite clear: this was a proposal that would hardly burden the budget, yet it could mean life for many sick children. And once again, you have experienced this debate without a single Fidesz, KDNP representative asking for a word, and then, cynically, here laughing, you have said no to the inclusion of this proposal in the series of questions. This was important at least because every Hungarian voter could see how he was represented in this case by his representative, in theory, or by the representative elected by him or by his vote or by the representative assigned to his mandate. This can be monitored, and this possibility will be taken away with this extremely harsh restriction. I very much hope that Csaba Hende, as rapporteur, can explain this, that you want to limit the effectiveness of the plenary session by not usually being here in these debates, usually sleeping at home, I think they spend their free time, good or otherwise; you are not in any way restricted, and opposition representatives felt that they should be here late at night, where appropriate, to express their views, and that such a proposal must be made in the first place, even if we are not authorized to govern. And yes, this has also been mentioned, fellow Members, that the very serious problem is that the sanctions that you have described in this proposal are based on very often difficult rubber regulations. Several of my fellow Members have already mentioned the words "speaking rudely" and "soundingly insulting" here. At the meeting of the Judicial Committee, I asked Mr Hende whether, for example, a proposal or measure is treason, whether it is indecent, insulting, for example, that could be said in the Hungarian Parliament, and that, where appropriate, an opposition representative might say that he thinks that this is treason, what is happening, or betraying the interests of the nation, who could say this, or that would be considered inappropriate. Or it has been said and said that, for some reason, a Member believes that if the situation changes, a pro-government politician will go to prison. Is that a threat? Will it be possible to do this in the Hungarian Parliament, so that an opposition representative can honestly say this? But the tragedy is that, yes, as my fellow Members have said, the assessment of these will be subjective, which will make it possible to ban Members of Parliament from sitting, to withdraw the floor, and then to ban them from the Parliament building, and then from any building that belongs to this complex. That's pretty amazing. It has also been mentioned before me that it violates rights that are quite amazing. For example, the exercise of employees' rights will not be possible. Is this how you want to protect the authority of the Hungarian Parliament? When you are banned, as a result of a subjective procedure, you may be banned as a penalty for many Members from buildings belonging to the Hungarian Parliament, you cannot meet with your colleagues, you cannot use the tools provided for his work, you cannot carry out the work of your representatives, so you can defend the authority of the Parliament? One of the most harsh measures you have put forward is also linked to the ban: exercising the right to vote. They believe that opposition representatives will exercise the right to vote by giving their votes, so to speak, by proxy. It's quite amazing, what do you think? I look at the author, or I look at the faction leader, how do you feel about that? So, if not one, but two, three, ten Members are banned, an entire opposition group is banned, don't give up, the entire opposition will be banned, then the opposition representatives, so instead of the representatives of the Hungarian people who have been elected to the Parliament, will vote in favour of pro-government representatives? I hope that, Mr Group leader, the rapporteur, anyone will explain how this is happening and how you think it is realistic for you to vote on behalf of pro-government representatives instead of opposition representatives. This is quite amazing, and it can be said to be an extreme restriction on the work of Members of Parliament. There are many cases that could still be classified, even 30 minutes, but I would like to refer to one more, and this is indeed the institution of the Commission's hearings. Once again, I will give you a very, very important example: there is a big project in which we will never agree, this is a big project of Paks enlargement, and, yes, in July myself at a Commission hearing, I experienced such shocking answers from the competent minister that he has no idea when the authorisation procedure can start for a $4,000 billion project, or that the Russians put in a position without a tender are learning the Hungarian technical environment. If such hearings cannot take place, how will these shocking information come to light, how will this information get to the people whose money you manage here? So it is an incredibly irresponsible and unacceptable step to limit the functioning of the committees in any way. And, yes, it is equally unacceptable that, in the course of a proposal for an MSZP, in the last time, very, very many amendments, you have also demonstrated that, if appropriate, by breaking the existing rules, you have prevented hundreds of amendments tabled by the opposition group from preventing the legislative process that you consider to be a good process or preventing the process that you consider to be a good one. Well, it is possible to argue that this is a right or wrong instrument, and I think that everything that is in line with the rules, and any means that is democratic and which can serve the interests of the Hungarian people, is applicable, and, if there is no other means for an opposition representative than to use such means, then it is also obliged to apply it. Even then, you, ignoring the rules, have swept this opportunity away from the hands of the opposition, and now you are proposing an amendment that this instrument is not even theoretically available. And I didn't pick on Congressman Vejkey, but it was important to think that it is our duty here, all of us, to pursue a policy that will ensure the future of our children and grandchildren, and sometimes it is also necessary to use such tools. Again, this measure is not intended to restore the authority of the Parliament, but to restrict the rights of opposition representatives. I agree with the Members who said before me that this package was a reaction to the serious pro-government failure of the municipal elections in October. This is certainly your recognition of the opposition parliamentary work. So the fact that you are dealing with this at all, you are presenting such a proposal, and you are likely to vote in your two-thirds possession, underlining the fact that it is worth working as an opposition representative in Parliament, it was wrong for those who said that you shouldn't go in because it bothers you, it limits you. For this reason, I think it is a very clear message that opposition representatives have a dog's duty not only to continue this work, but also to continue it more effectively and more committedly. What I can say, fellow Members, is that the LMP faction is sure to understand this message, and despite the fact that, of course, we reject this shameful package of laws, we will interpret this message as our duty to continue, not only with the intensity we have so far, but with much greater intensity and commitment, both in Parliament, the opposition work and in addition to the walls of the Parliament, what the rights that give us, the rights that still exist, the rights that we have received from the votes of the electorate of opposition sentiment. Thank you very much. [[Márta Demeter: That's right! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-11-20-53	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. We'll get back to work. Before I give the floor to Head of the Szabó Timea Group, I would like to draw your attention to what is, in itself, a simple fact that they are forced to stand side by side in a parliament. It's just a world like this. So, please, everybody respect who's sitting next to him, and I'm asking him not to compromise his options and rights. So now it's up to Szabó Timea, the leader of the Dialogue Group, to take the floor. You must have taken my sentences into account. There you go. You have the floor. [[13.30]]
u2019-11-20-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much for this detour. I think I'm feeling a little safer right now, because maybe that way everyone will discipline themselves against the person next to him. The one in front of us [[István Szilárd Németh: This is impertinence that...]] The bill is nothing more than a vendetta against the electorate. Vengeance campaign, for which, on October 13th, both in Budapest and in large cities, but also in many small settlements, it was clearly stated that enough of the hatred of Viktor Orbán was enough, enough of the scare, and enough of the lies, the theft and the destruction you have done over the past nine years. I'm saying it's a vendetta, because it's not a stand-alone bill, but it's been the fourth to fifth since October 13th, which is part of this vendetta. It began with the fact that László Kövér immediately banned the press from Parliament, the House of Representatives and from anywhere where you might turn, so that your representatives would not burn the government further because of steps that they could not answer a simple public question or run from the cameras. László Fat simply put them in a quarantine. That was the first step. Then we saw that they submitted slyly salad laws to put in place laws that would make opposition-led municipalities impossible, which would take away free-use revenues. Here we consider the specific use of revenue from business tax. In vain, I asked Viktor Orbán on Monday to say that, for example, Budapest was free to use that 155 billion forint for what it wanted. He didn't answer. This clearly leads us to conclude that it wasn't. So you're also trying to strangle these cities. And now we hear that they're preparing for a new election law, because this election in October really hurts you. Now you won't be able to run as a civil society organization, just as a party. For the record, please send this message to your own Fidesz representatives, some of whom, for example, are included in Annex III. Balázs Bús didn't start in fidesz colours in the district, but he himself gangbed up on a civil society organization, so this proposal also applies to a number of Fidesz. We also see that they are now planning to take away the winning compensation. So you're afraid, you're preparing for 2022 precisely, because you can see that the opposition has been strengthened and forged together. Even if you try to discredit this opposition unit, it's an existing unit, and we're going forward in 22nd, and you know you're afraid that in 2022 we're going to drive you out of the government. Although the question has now been raised here, and I also think that this may not be a threat to say that we are going to replace you, because here we have repeatedly shown that we are threatening you with this. Well, if that's a threat to you, then take it as a threat, and I'll do it bravely, and we'll chase you away. This law before us, which is now to be negotiated, is ridiculous. You're acting as if this is about the dignity of this House or in any way about the legislative process that we've been trying to keep normal for nine years, just because of you. [[An uproar in the pro-government ranks.]] Once again, I would like to emphasise that this law is not about the opposition. This law is not about opposition representatives. Believe me, they can't intimidate us by taking our salary. They won't be able to stop us on the road we started together by punishing us for millions of forints. Believe me, we're gonna put this punishment together and we're gonna rely on our constituents. They're gonna help us because this isn't about us. This is about the whole country, about you wanting revenge, and you want to prevent the voice of three million opposition voters from getting to more people in any way. He was very revealing, and I said this in my speech before Monday's agenda, when Csaba Hende began his argument that he would like to quote the Gospel of Matthew here from the Scriptures, so that whoever offends the smallest of us should put millstones in his neck and cast them deep into the sea. [[Csaba Hende: Jesus told me!]] Csaba Hende nods violently right now. So you basically said it wasn't about getting the seats in a normal bed, it was about throwing us into the sea, or shutting us up. Then I suggest once again to Csaba Hende and Máté Kocsis, who are lawyers, somehow they will find a way to put the Scriptures into a law, so put this in. Put this in so that if we behave renantly, they can put millstones around our necks, throw us to the bottom of the sea. [[Csaba Hende applauds.]] Or without a sea, say, to Lake Balaton, and then it's a lot easier, then we'll never come back, and then we'll put an end to all this quickly. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] Let's consider these specific steps that we have here, or the specific plans that we have in the bill. This is where the ban on public institutions has been mentioned. Máté Kocsis previously referred to the clever example of checking in to a hairdresser in advance, so let us also register in advance in a public institution. Once again, as a lawyer, you have been a representative for quite some time... so the hairdresser is a private business; MTVA, Magyar Television is a public institution. [[Dr. Máté Kocsis: Suzuki!]] I don't want to go in... That's right, and that's what I said. Matthew Kocsis says it very well, because I told Csaba Hende at the committee meeting that, for example, we accepted that we were not allowed into the Suzuki factory because it was a private company. Although, for the record, a private company that received billions of dollars from the state would be entitled to go in here. But we didn't say anything about that. But the fact that we cannot control a Hungarian TV that lies for 90 billion forints a year with taxpayers' money is the end of it all! Do you really imagine the situation that we will write a letter to the forger Dániel Papp to receive us at this time and at this time, then he will write us back, won't he, of course, come tomorrow? [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] It is obligated to do so if you are obliged to do so, because I do not see the situation in my mind that he is responding to this in substance. Then let's move on. You are here referring to the dignity of this House in this whole amendment of the law, while there is a passage that László Kövér can decide which committee to sit on. What does that have to do with what's going on here in plenary? I'll tell you what it has to do with you, and it's just revenge again: it has nothing to do with the dignity of this House. You want revenge because Hungarian MEPs did not vote for Troy Troy Trócsányi in the European Parliament. [[An uproar from the pro-government ranks.]] That's why I don't know if I'm gonna skip a month's salary, Mr. President, or two months or three months. The Trócsányi László, who represented not the debtors, not the victims, but the banks in the foreign exchange loan lawsuit, can use the term "rogue" in a calm way. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] After that, you will avenge us and say that Agnes Kunhalmi will then be put on the Agricultural Committee for revenge, that he will be able to help you there with his very expert contributions. So it shows that this has nothing to do with the dignity of this House, which lies before us. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] It is also very interesting, and, by the way, constitutional concerns and serious concerns are raised by the idea of voting for each other. Suppose a situation arises when the entire opposition is banned, and then I see before me that I ask my esteemed colleague, Szilárd Németh, to vote here in Parliament for me, but in the way the Dialogue wants. [[István Szilárd Németh: Well, that won't happen!]] Well, thank you very much. He yelled that it wouldn't happen. So I'm not suggesting keeping this in this bill, because that's not gonna happen. [[13.40]] Then let us once again return to the dignity of this House. I also told you on Monday, and you should be ashamed to refer to the dignity of this House, to the dignity of this House, and this has been said by others, I also said this, when you skinned the most vulnerable, imprisoned, imprisoned in the last nine years, the homeless people were imprisoned, the Trafiks were taken from the disabled, the farmers were abducted by Lőrinc Mészáros, they took 700 billion forints out of health care every year, a nurse still earns 120 thousand forints a month, two thousand teachers are missing from education because they wipe the floors with them, giving them such salaries. Péter Polt is appointed as the Attorney General, who refuses to open an investigation in any case, practically apart from being involved with Viktor Orbán. László Domokos is appointed head of the State Audit Office, who proved exactly Monday or yesterday how impartial he was: he came in and practically kissed you here in the Fidesz fraction, in the strictest sense of the word. Well, that's how independent the president of the SAO is... [[Máté Kocsis intervenes. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I don't want to go into details. That is how independent the President of the SAO is, while punishing opposition parties for false, vile reasons for millions, hundreds of millions, without control, I note, in a totally illegal way. This violates the dignity of this House, which you have done in the last nine years. The house, a building, has no dignity. The dignity of this House is given by what laws are being made, not by the fact that a completely deprived opposition is forced to raise its word differently to use other means. [[Csaba Hende intervenes.]] We have to live on social media because television broadcasting has been stopped. This violates the dignity of this House. You are incredibly self-righteous and deceitful from this point of view. You don't care about the dignity of this House, you don't care about the dignity of this House in this whole bill, you're interested in allowing us to keep our mouths shut and steal, as we have done in the last nine years, and we can't possibly say this in public. Let us look at the next part of this legislation: László Kövér, who is well known for his calmness and impartial sitting, what sanctions can be imposed in one person at the next time. If someone intervenes during a speech which, by the way, I think we have the right to do so in all Parliaments, then he can take away our monthly salary. If you use inappropriate terms, you can take away our two-month pay or ban us for eight calendar days. I just want to ask you what you think is inappropriate. If I say that Viktor Orbán's daughter, Rachel Orbán and her husband, István Tiborcz, have stolen this country and that you are stealing, cheating, lying, is that an indecent expression? [[Intercoms from Fidesz, among other things: That's a lie!]] Interestingly, that's why I'm asking: why didn't Orbán report us so far? Why didn't Viktor Orbán report me? If he thinks that this is a lie, then we should not be banned by László Fat, but Viktor Orbán will go to the police and report that we lied. And if the police are obviously, I think Péter Polt will certainly start an investigation that he thinks we lied, then he will punish us, but László Fat will not punish us! Well, who's the Speaker to say that he's one person to decide whether or not we lied? [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] By the way, you're saying exactly the same lies about us, so I'm curious how many times you're going to be punished on the other side. In the same way, it has been said that what violates the dignity of the sitting can be taken up to four months' salary, but in the event of opposition doubles that. I am also curious to know what the opposition is: the poor servants will come in, and then there will be such a struggle, or how do they imagine it? If physical violence is used, it may be banned for 60 calendar days and one year's salary may be taken from opposition representatives. This is interesting because you believe that our speech or action against the slave law of 12 December, last year, showed physical violence, as it was mentioned in László Kövér's explanation that we used physical violence. But I'd like to ask you, is anyone injured in this seat? Blood all over the place? Did you have to tie someone up? Did someone get so scared that the ambulance took him? [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] You have also said that we threatened Viktor Orbán. Did he file a complaint in this case? I don't know, I look at my fellow opposition Members: does anyone know that because of the action on 12 December, either Viktor Orbán or anyone else would have reported us because we threatened him? 'Cause I don't know about that. Now, please, if this is the case, why does László Fat think that this is physical violence, and what else does he think will be physical violence in the coming time? Then let me ask you if you think it's inappropriate when Fidesz László Tasó tells me what you're talking about, girl. Is the indecent expression when László Kövér tells one of the opposition representatives that you should be treated? Is that inappropriate? Now imagine the situation again that I am telling László Fat that I think you should be treated, Mr Speaker. How many months do I get off? So he can tell me, but I can't tell him, can I? [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács' intervention:]] Good... Or is the indecent expression when John Lazarus tells Agnes Valai to take off the babydoll or wear it, I don't know what he said anymore. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Down!]] Is that inappropriate? They're nodding here, the camera doesn't see it, the Fidesz MEPs are nodding here, but I didn't see any punishment for it, but I didn't even see a word of it, even though he didn't yell at it, but said it in a speech. So you feel that there are some questions about this whole bill, don't you? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you have very harshly confused fundamental rights, a fundamental right of expression and freedom of speech with a lesson in decency. You think that something that you don't like or hurt your ears is a violation. But the thing is, as we, as public figures, have to tolerate such criticism. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] This cannot be sanctioned because it is a highly protected fundamental right. Otherwise, there are very, very serious constitutional concerns about the whole of the law, and you probably have no idea what the consequences will be. Even the Constitutional Court, which you have ruled, will be forced to cancel a lot of passes if you do not withdraw what is in this, and at the latest in Strasbourg, I am sure that they will withdraw the whole thing with you. There are such serious violations and constitutional concerns about this law, let me tell only five Hende Csaba, who is a lawyer, so he will probably understand what this is about. For certain infringements, the sanction imposed is totally disproportionate, as it may be capable of making the work of its representatives completely impossible, while you do not have the right to do so. We do not know what sanction László Kövér will impose for an interrogation, so this could also be a totally disproportionate punishment. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] This causes serious legal uncertainty, since sanctions are serious, while a meaningful margin of discretion, which would require the weight of the consequences to be taken into account, is not included in it. I mean, once again, László Fat can act completely arbitrary on these issues. For example, take this example today: neither in the house rules nor anywhere is it possible to sit in Viktor Orbán's chair or not. Mr. President James immediately said that there would be such a penalty and such a penalty; he does not know the rules of the house, because he does not have it in this one, and there is no one who can sit where! By the way, Máté Kocsis should have been punished, because he wasn't just sitting in his own chair, he was sitting in another congressman's chair. [[13.50]] So be careful with those yellings because either you don't know where to sit or where you don't, or you forgot this part. I don't want to give you ideas, but it doesn't say that. And it seemed to me that the notaries had also told President James to finish this now, because he would not win this. The third, which raises very serious concerns, can automatically be imposed 15 days from the presidential pulpit. This also violates the rule of law and the right to appeal by excluding all considerations in the first place. You were already canceled by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in 2016 on Christmas and others versus Hungary, partly because there was no right to appeal. Since then, you have introduced this phony right to appeal. In your opinion, the appeal is that the two-thirds parliament will decide at second instance, but we know that it is not an impartial second-degree court, but it is you who imposed the penalty again. But it's not even this one. What László Fat can immediately impose a 15-day sentence from there, not even a small amount of redress in your proposal. If Ab doesn't cancel this, it'll be an open confession to serve you exclusively. At least let's maintain the appearance of minimum law. Fourthly, the permanent limitation of the right to vote or the transfer of voting rights without a constitutional basis by delegation violates the equality of rights of its representatives. I was just talking about it, and Szilárd Németh himself said that there will be no such thing as voting for me; I don't think so, but this also violates the equality of rights of his representatives. Once again, this will be canceled in Strasbourg. Finally, it also attracts a very serious legal uncertainty that you want to use this entire amendment as a power tool, disciplinary powers, and even only against opposition representatives. I have just mentioned examples of when you clearly believe there were violations on the part of pro-government, but nothing has happened. If a law is found to be applied only to one party and not to the other party, it will not stand up to the rule of law. Finally, let me get to the international examples. Máté Kocsis, Csaba Hende and János Halász also referred to all kinds of international examples. They mentioned the British example, the example of the German Bundestag, as well as Luxembourg, Dutch and French examples. The thing is, I'm going to say a little bit more gently that you're not right about this. It's not like you say. Let me give you the British example because we collected it. There is a sanction there, but what we call the mother of parliamentarianism you referred to it as, they said that we like it that way, and I wrote it because it is so well put by Máté Kocsis, you often like the international outlook. I often like it, and let's see if it's okay with the rules, if the British have it. Actually, I don't. Because for the first time in the British, it's five days, and it's the only time they can pull it off. So there's no such thing as a five-day ban, and then I'll take your salary for four months. No way! Moreover, there is no improvising court such as László Fat, but there goes the whole process. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: What process?]] In the rule of law process, there is, therefore, the right to appeal and the right to appeal. [[Csaba Hende: Come on!]] He doesn't like it here, but look at it. I don't want to argue because it's crazy. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] We've looked at it. In the last hundred years, the British have used it five times. Five times! Five days, six days, two days. The worst was a six-month ban. Shall I tell you what happened then? Turns out a congressman was using prostitutes and cocaine. That was the worst. [[Noise.]] So it's not because you said you were stealing, cheating, or lying. That's an interesting question. So don't refer to the British example, because it's not good, it won't do you any good. The other is the German Bundestag, where in the last 27 years there have been six instances of banning a representative for a few days. But the Dutch, the Luxembourgs and the French, it's even worse for you. I believe they think they're leading us and the voters into believing that it exists everywhere, but it's not. It's not like that! They don't use it there. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: Yes, you can!]] I just told you that you've been hired five times in the last hundred years, and I told you why. But be careful, because your salary will jump if you stop the session. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: Don't threaten me!]] And I'm threatening you, so I'm gonna have four months to jump. In conclusion, for your part, this is a vendetta. They're not getting revenge on us, they're getting revenge on the electorate again. What they've been doing for the last nine years, they've been doing it. They took away their wealth from the most unfortunate, the least, and they want to continue it now, this theft, and we can't even say anything about it. That's your goal. But you know what? Wouldn't we want to say it? Your word to renegade in Parliament, and you forced us to do so with your vile laws and your refusal to speak to us. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: There is a debate going on right now!]] No arguments. Let me tell you something else. We have collected a very interesting data, and you will also like it: between 2010-19, i.e. four of the thousands of legislative proposals adopted in the last nine years are former opponents. Four! [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: Because the rest were weak!]] This isn't a conversation. This isn't cooperation. This isn't a technical meeting. This isn't a parliament. This is about you wanting to use us as a biodecoration here in Parliament, so that we can quietly assist you in your theft. [[István Szilárd Németh: This is what the people have decided!]] You have no willingness to have a meaningful and meaningful debate here, to listen to the opinion of the three million voters who sent us here. It's not like that. You want to use us for your own self-consciousness, and now you've got your mouth shut. With all due respect, we're not going to assist you on this. The opposition has come together, the united opposition is on its way to 2022, whatever they do, and we will replace you from the government. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-55	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. Now, the first independent Member to apply can take the floor. I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Similarly, this proposal is scandalous, as is the parliamentary behaviour of the united Balliberal bloc. [[Lajos Korózs: Sit down!]] Nobody is guided by any noble principle at all, nor does it govern the opposition, nor does it govern the Fidesz when it comes to the dignity of this House. Everyone is just looking out for their own power-technical interests. By the way, this proposal fits into what both the Balliberal opposition and the Fidesz have done in the House for the last nine years. It is true, indeed, that plenary sessions have been emptied and, more and more, very important substantive debates have been banished into committees, such as detailed debates themselves. In the past, the Parliament also held detailed debates at the plenary session, but it is now also a matter for the committees. [[14.00]] Many reports are no longer presented to the plenary session, but will be carried out in committees. In all such cases, representatives of the Hungarian Movement vote against the principle that we do not delegate to committees to discuss very important issues. But the harshest emptiness and restrictions on the public was when television broadcasts were stopped, since from then on, the public of Parliament will only be partially realised. But not only do they empty the Parliament with procedural questions, but they also do so by not responding regularly to opposition representatives' suggestions. They either give an answer that has nothing to do with what has been said, or they simply don't answer. But they also introduced the practice of responding, of course, at the very end of the debate, as rapporteur, when they no longer have the opportunity to respond to the Members involved in the debate. So if you were to take seriously the sublime principles that you can speak so well, then in fact these case-laws would be completed and substantive debates would be held by the Parliament. In terms of who has the responsibility to get this far, it would be worthwhile for everyone to sweep around their own house for the first time, and to come to mind why the situation has developed, unfortunately 30 years after the so-called system change. This proposal goes on this path, and now we will not have the opportunity to discuss the series of subjects, nor will it be possible to hold these debates in plenary with two minutes' contributions. They will also regret this from opposition representatives, so that they can comment here in two minutes when, by the way, you are not present in these debates, nor do they usually address these proposals. But now this right is also being withdrawn from opposition representatives. It is also important to say that the conduct that we are all here, Members of Parliament, serves as a norm, or at least should serve as a norm for our fellow countrymen. I dare not say that we should set an example, because we saw what the municipal election campaign revealed both Balliberian politicians and otherwise fidesz politicians. But what we regard as normal behavior, how to deal with a disagreement, how to deal with our conflicts has an impact on the entire Hungarian public life. The fact that we're shooting here, smashing the equipment, or honking into each other's faces is a very important message to society as a whole. That is why it would be best not to talk about how to behave in this House's Chamber, but about a consensus on what is permissible and what cannot be allowed between the walls of this House. I must highlight two aspects in this respect: one is the emergence of obscenity and the other is the settlement of conflicts and disagreements. These are the two key points that led to the birth of this law. Unfortunately, in terms of obscenity, we have to go back to the autumn speech, as this is also a turning point in the history of Hungarian politics. After all, this was the point where he appeared in a speech to such a large extent and reached a crowd from a politician's mouth, namely the mouth of the then Prime Minister of Hungary, which basically triggered the debauchery that the culmination or recent appearance of Ákos Hadházy led to an unacceptable obscene expression here at the plenary session. But here, too, the Fidesz MEPs could sweep around their own house, and think of L. Simon László's poems, which he didn't dare to read in this House, and which, by the way, was issued with state aid just when István Hiller was the minister. But the case of the Mayor of Szolnok is also worth recalling here, which can also be extremely unpleasant for the pro-government representatives. We are getting to the point where we need to put up a 16-ring for parliamentary mediations or a few speeches or signs. This can't be the direction we need to follow. In addition, the case of Ákos Hadházy is particularly outrageous because he did not act out of anger, but he did so with premeditated intent, thinking about it at home, printing it, bringing it in here, thinking that it might be appropriate in the Hungarian Parliament. It was not, therefore, that there was an extraordinary event on which the congressman was so upset that he had a nasty speech, but he thought about it and brought it in here with premeditated intent. Both sides should also look into a lot of things when it comes to resolving conflicts or disagreements. In the last few hours, as I followed the debate, I could not decide whether this was a debate between children in kindergarten or a plenary session of the Parliament. And unfortunately, also in the case of December 12, if everyone thought about putting up with kindergarten children, for example, by settling the conflict by snorting into each other's faces, we would obviously not tolerate it from them. However, opposition representatives thought that this could be a norm in the Parliament's meeting room, and this attitude is permissible here. No, it cannot be allowed on the part of the opposition or on the part of the pro-government representatives. Perhaps one of the harshest parts of this proposal is that it is proposed to be able to cast votes instead of others. This is something quite amazing, something that is very difficult to find words for, that anyone seriously raises the possibility of presenting a proposal so harshly violating the inviolability of mandates and the principle of equal mandate. When you think about how in public life you can support people or still conclude contracts in which Csaba Czeglédy scans anyone, I can classify it as an absurdity like this when you think that you can vote for others here. It is impossible in many cases in the first place, and otherwise it tells us that there is another emptying of disputes. After all, that we are primarily and fundamentally legislators, in this quality no one and nothing can limit any of our fellow Members, otherwise no matter how they behave, whatever they do here, in the plenary Chamber, or anywhere else during their public engagements. For example, in an interpellation, we imagine that there is a opposition interpellation. We are not predicting that the opposition representative will certainly not accept the pro-government response, because we should assume the good faith that it is not a pre-order vote for everyone, but that it is, of course, and at the time of the one-minute response, that we should then make the decision on what kind of vote someone will cast on his behalf. Plus, you don't even know in advance that you'll accept the answer at all. So such technical difficulties may arise, beyond the fact that it is clearly against the law. I believe that it is also against the law that the committees vote with two hands. It's pretty amazing. And when they talk about it being a workplace, they should not expand the scope of these options, but eliminate these possibilities of voting for someone else. What happens if the agenda is supplemented by something at a committee meeting in an unforeseen way, but the agenda modification proposal is submitted there and on the spot? Obviously, they won't be able to give me an assignment. And I could tell you how many logical failures are going to come from what you've just presented. If we want to set a level playing field for each Member, the solution is not to give the choice to the obviously biased and party-specific Speaker. That, no, the Speaker has already found, in most of the opposition representatives, that they have violated the authority of the House to such an extent that it deserves to be punished, but that, no, this has never happened to a pro-government Member. It is also evident from this ratio that this is not the decision of an impartial body, otherwise independent of Parliament. By the way, if you were to follow on either side the proposal of the Hungarian Movement to abolish immunity, then equality before the law would actually be realized. Then politicians, Members of Parliament, would not only be equal to each other, and everyone should answer to independent justice for what they are doing here or anywhere else, but we could also eliminate that other citizens are not entitled to privileges that have remained here from the last century, but they no longer have any function, but the right to immunity has become the hotbed of political crime. [[14.10]] Don't try to control Ference Gyurcsány, who is a billionaire, by withdrawal of money, because he probably won't even die if his annual fee is revoked, he won't have any effect, but he should have been sent to prison a long time ago. I should also mention the point where the possibility of visiting public institutions is restricted. I understand that a Member can't do that if he thinks he's checking a public institution now, then he says he'll move in there and spend the rest of the term there because he wants to check it out. But that's no reason to spill the baby with the bath water. What is the principle that should be enforced? It is that both an opposition representative and a pro-government representative should have a meaningful opportunity to control the institutions that operate from public money in substance. Therefore, it should also be granted this right of inspection so that it is not allowed to enter a public institution at a previously agreed time, when it will take part in a protocolary discussion, and otherwise prepare for each part of the institution to paint a better picture of themselves at his visit, because that is what will happen. From now on, the Member will not see the reality, and the very point of this right of control is that the Member should be able to learn about reality in these institutions. I have used the possibility of visiting institutions, children's homes, schools and other institutions on many occasions, and it is quite different when a person does not arrive in advance, naturally politely waiting for the institution manager's fixed programs, but I can observe the reality of the weekdays, as when they logged in in in advance for three weeks in advance, although I note that there are some people who don't give an appointment at any time, and there is no penalty in this regard that they don't inform the interested representative properly, because, indeed, whispering news has also come to me that they brought furniture into the institution the night before, for example, to make it look like they've always been there. So from now on, there will be no possibility for any representative to be able to check the reality under normal circumstances. So to sum up, I can say that if either the united balliberal array or the Fidesz really thought that the dignity of this House should be protected and that we would create a public life in which the Member would actually be able to carry out his duties in normal circumstances, in the exercise of his right of control, in the exercise of his right to comment, then this law would not have come before us, would not have been discussed in such scandalous circumstances, and this would not be an answer to such scandals. And the real solution would be the abolition of immunity, represented only by the Mi Hazan Movement in Hungarian public life. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-20-57	Thank you very much. It felt good. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Croatian ethnic advocate József Szolga, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Mr President, Poštovani Dome! Dear House, The T/8044. A bill amending certain laws concerning the functioning of Parliament and the status of Members and H/8042. No 10/2014 on certain house rules. following the submission of a proposal for a decision amending the parliamentary decision, given that the proposals have a significant impact on the exercise of the rights of the national minority representative, the advocates, our committee, and the committee representing the national minorities in the context of the debate on the minority agenda. Following the decision of the House Committee on 14 November 2019, the Committee on Nationalities of Hungary discussed both drafts at its meeting on 18 November 2019 and invited the Commission to present its opinion. Following the publication of the Fundamental Law, the sixth democratically elected Parliament considered it important that certain provisions determining the operational order of the supreme representative body be brought to a legal level by the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. the adoption of a law. Within the framework of the law, licenses related to the participation of nationalities have also been insured. The committee representing the nationalities, the minority advocates and the representatives of national minorities, as well as the legislation on their activities, appeared as an independent legal institution. The periodical review has been put on the agenda since the start of the new parliamentary term and the experience of the application of the law. The bill on the amendment of certain laws concerning the functioning of Parliament and the status of Members can be said to raise further rules to the legal level and to deepen the detailed provisions. Only in a smaller proportion of the draft contains new elements, some detailed rules are clarified, and some proceedings concerning the members of the Parliament are taken from the parliamentary authority to the parliamentary level. The amendment renegotiates the provisions on symbols, clarifies the concept of the symbol, its use, its use on the basis of free and/or consent, lays down procedural rules and sets out the possibility of redress in the course of unauthorised use. The proposal concerns the regulatory points in two other main areas, such as the functioning of Parliament and the issues of the status of Members. The representative and representative of the nationality shall clearly tie his/her duties and exercise of his/her rights to the date of signature of the oath and the oath document. It should be noted that there is no established practice of taking an oath by the national minority representative in his mother tongue, the presentation of him at the inaugural meeting. In relation to the results of the parliamentary elections in 2018, a national minority municipal list was obtained as a national minority representative, in view of which the House Committee established in its resolution on 1 June 2018 the legal institution of the interpellation concerning the interests and rights of nationalities, stating that the national minority representative is entitled to express such an interpellation on a regular session. On the Commission's part, the section of the proposal that would now name special interpellation at the legislative level should be supported. The proposal places great emphasis on the rules on the maintenance of the negotiating order and disciplinary powers, and aims at ensuring the presence of the Committees at meetings. The regulation of absence affects the reduction of the fee. In view of the fact that the length of the term of office of advocate is considered to be periods of employment, it is important that the provisions relating to the withdrawal of remuneration are also based on legal rules; it is also necessary to apply to advocates in matters concerning the interests and rights of nationalities. Members shall attend the committee meeting in person or on the basis of a replacement. On the basis of the amendment, it is clear that only the case of participation by way of replacement shall be deemed to be absent when the member of the committee does not attend the entire meeting. An increase in remuneration with regard to the position and membership of the Commission shall be granted, and in the case of an unverified absence, the reduction shall be based solely on the increased amount due to the membership of the Commission. The removal of the time limit for the temporary use of representatives of nationalities and advocates in the proposal ensures a legitimate need for further employment in the event of their re-election. On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, it has already been formulated earlier that, like the exercise of the law on permanent committees, the Parliament elects several Vice-Presidents to represent the nationalities. The text in the amending and additional points of the proposal removes the unduly reserved distinction as to the organisational structure within the committees, thus allowing several vice-presidents to be elected for our committee. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] The possibility of speaking in the mother tongue of nationality has always been guaranteed. The clarification set out in the proposal will provide more time for additional work to be done in this regard. Interpreting is necessary for the speech to be heard. We support the introduction of additional rights in the bill, which affect the interests and rights of nationalities, which help the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary to operate, the exercise of the rights of the national minority representative and the advocates by our committee. Dear Parliament, In our view, the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. The amendment of Law 10/2014 on certain house rules is a binding feature of the amendment of the Act. a review of the parliamentary decision. [[14.20]] Reconciliation of the rules and new detailed procedural provisions are included in the scope of Article H/8042. It is intended to be implemented by submitting a proposal for a decision. It is certainly justified to discuss the draft law and the proposal for a resolution in the context of a joint general debate. It is noted that, prior to the parliamentary elections in 2014, the Parliament adopted a fully reworded house regulation, which is adapted to the new organizational order, in its content and structural order. Through the opportunities provided by the new rules, nationalities could be involved in the work of the legislation: the national representative representing indigenous nationalities, the representative committee and the national minority committee were insured with the powers needed to carry out their activities and the procedures for negotiating the budget procedure and the reports were simplified. In three cases since the entry into force of the house rules, minor modifications have been made. The current proposal contains significant amendments and additions. The draft proposes detailed provisions at house level to regulate the absence of its representatives from meetings, to reduce the fee of their representatives, and to lay down implementing rules. On several points, the proposal concerns the rules of the opposition of the representative of nationality and the speaker, such as: there is only one opportunity to speak after the agenda; there is a one-minute window for a point of order; they can ask for a two-minute opportunity to comment; if the Parliament has closed the debate, they can speak for a five-minute period; they can speak for at least five minutes after the Commission's speeches; they can speak for five minutes before the final vote. The proposal considers the speaker invited by the committee as a quasi-leading speaker in the debate on the minority agenda points and gives the other representatives and advocates the opportunity to speak. The draft decision settles the established practice, i.e. it qualifies the committee representing the nationalities as a committee for discussion of the draft budget law and discharge law. In the proposal, there is a significant emphasis on the rules for demonstrating absenteeism for meetings. With the adoption of the new Annex, the procedure for notifying and certifying absence from meetings will be added. It is important to note that the new rules set out in the proposals will enter into force gradually, so that the committee of nationalities, the representative of nationality and the advocate can prepare for practical application after adoption. Ladies and Gentlemen, Proposals for amendments to certain provisions of the proposals will be discussed by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. The Commission's opinion on certain stages of the new regulation will be presented in a detailed debate. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti!
u2019-11-20-59	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, I declare that the general debate will be adjourned, continued and closed today as the last item on the agenda. Now, Honourable Parliament, the general debate on the proposal for a decision declaring the year 2020 as the Memorial Year of Miklós Zrínyi will follow. Presentation submitted by Németh Szilárd István, Kósa Lajos, Pán-czél Károly, Ágh Péter, Halász János, Hubay György, Fenyvesi Zoltán, Zsigmond Barna Pál, Fidesz, and Nacsa Lőrinc, Földi László, Aradszki András, Simicskó István, Vejkey Imre, KDNP, representatives H/8035. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, the rapporteur. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Miklós Zrínyi is an outstanding Hungarian general, military thinker and personality, who left a lasting impression in Hungarian history and literature with his work and actions. His estates lay in the Habsburgs dominated part of Hungary, in the vicinity of the Ottoman territories, so he had to get acquainted with the ruse of swordsmanship, horseback riding and leadership at a very young age. The most important purpose of his military career is to unite the country, to expel Ottoman power from the territory of the Kingdom of Hungary, of which he would not allow without the support of the Viennese court. As a general, he has achieved a number of successes that have been noticed all over Europe, and he has been given medals and recognitions. Besides the military merit of Miklós Zrínyi, he also carried out outstanding military science activities: he created the Hungarian military theory literature, and his works are genre complete despite their small number. In person, we can respect the first Hungarian military theorist, who has written his works to date in Hungarian: the little tracta of Tábor is related to the so-called rule literature, Lieutenant Vitéz draws a portrait of the good general, the reflections on the life of King Matthias follow the traditions of the king mirror, and the work of Don't Hurt Hungarian The Medicine Against the Turkish Aphium fits perfectly into the anti-Osmanian pamphlet. Zrínyi was concerned with all the important military issues of the age: the importance of the establishment and care of the permanent army, the offensive, offensive combat mode of action, and the need for international cooperation. Miklós Zrínyi not only created a significant work as a general, but also as a writer and poet. The writing of the Szigeti threat made it one of the classics of Hungarian literature. Zrinyi's significance is no more evident than the respect of posterity. This is confirmed by the fact that the name Zrínyi appears in all major events of Hungarian military history and military education; for the first time during the Revolution and War of Independence in 1948-49, the so-called Zrínyi Free Team was established. The Austrian-Hungarian Navy's fleet was joined by two warships, while in World War II the name was Zrinyi. Today the barracks and university campus bear the name of the first Hungarian military theorist. At the same time, Miklós Zrínyi joined the Croatian people with a thousand threads: his family also had Croatian nobles; his home was Csáktornya, where he was born on 3 May 1620 and then lived as Croatian. The commemorative year provides an opportunity to further deepen Hungarian-Croatian bilateral relations through the rich historical heritage of centuries of Croatian-Hungarian coexistence. Miklós Zrínyi is a symbol of the spirituality that can submit his life to a higher purpose, cause, and sacrifice for his country and nation. Such commemorative years and commemorative days strengthen patriotism and national self - respect. Ladies and gentlemen, Count Miklós Zrínyi, Croatian bán, the heiress of Zala and Somogy County, great-owner general, general, war scientist, outstanding strategist, politician, poet, prose writer, outstanding linguistic talent, but mostly patriot. As a leader from the Habsburgs, he fought for the protection of Christianity, for the return of the independence of Hungarians and for the creation of a strong Hungarian Kingdom. His programme of three, the national army, the national cooperation and the creation of the national kingdom, defined his whole life, his military, political and poetic work. He recognized the political opportunity to weaken the Ottoman Empire and set out a program of action. He set the goal of freeing the country, which he consistently represented when the Habsburg Court did not support these ideas. He confessed that the nation could do this on its own initiative by joining forces, creating unity, and ignoring the interests of order. In his vision, he dreamed of the creation of a strong national kingdom and turned his power, his exceptional abilities, into the fulfillment of this dream. His whole life was determined by the struggle for Hungary, Hungary and its freedom, impelling order to join forces and act for the cause of the nation. Undoubtedly, he expressed his determination as the final line of his work The Medicine Against the Hafium of Turkey. The glory, opposition to the Ottoman forces and heroic death of the great grandfather of Szigetvár had a great impact on the young offspring, who wanted to carry out the same heroic actions to protect the country as his famous accomplice. [[14.30]] In 1637 Miklós Zrínyi took over his family's inheritance, put his estate in order, and settled at the headquarters of his family, Csáktorony. Soon he began his battles with the neighboring enemy garrisons, and he fought incessantly at the ends. The Catholic orders of the Royal Hungary, including Zrínyi, cooperated with the Viennese Court until the end of the 30-year war in 1648, because they hoped to help them out of the Ottomans, and from 1642 to 45 Zrínyi himself participated in the 30-year war, fighting with an army set up at his own expense in Silesia, Moravia and the Highlands. In 1645 he rescued the ruler next to Éger, Czech Republic, when General Wrangel broke into his tent. Zrinyi's political and general insight is demonstrated by his realization that the Ottoman Empire is not nearly as strong as it once was. Europe's leading political powers and the Pope acknowledged its military greatness, they called it Magyar Mars as an admiration for its extraordinary military performance. Zrínyi could no longer live to exorcise the Ottomans, he died that same year in 1664: during a hunt, he was wounded by a boar. Miklós Zrínyi's great-grandfather, the hero of Szisvár, gave him the example of cooperation for his Christian country, of fighting for his freedom without doubt. Zrinyi promotes the historical vocation of the Hungarian nation by unifying national purpose and Christian concept, and believes unwaveringly in the power of moral power. The message of the island threat is also a creed: if we are able to rise up on our fears, if we believe in a noble goal and stick together, then we can save the country, even if we pay with our lives, our actions will be fate-changing. Zrínyi's work is as important today as it was at the time of reform. We see in him an example, a historical predecessor, who has fought for the goals of today's prominent leaders: national unity, independence, protection of Christian values, freedom, disintegration within the nation and the elimination of social tensions. In Hungarian history, Miklós Zrínyi is the outstanding historical person whose whole life has become a model of action for Hungary. I trust that the person of Miklós Zrínyi and his historical and literary activities for Hungary will support both the pro-government and the opposition groups. I would like to ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the parliamentary proposal that I have tabled, which declares the year 2020 as a commemorative year for Miklós Zrínyi. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-20-61	Thank you very much. The president-in-Office is unable to evaluate the speech, so I can only say that I thank you with honor. Would the Secretary of State like to speak on behalf of the government? [[Tamás Vargha rises to speak.]] Here you go.
u2019-11-20-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Miklós Zrínyi was the defining statesman and politician of his time, who dedicated his life to the service of the country, as he recorded in his poetic work for posterity. We must cultivate and guard his work as general, military science, poetic and political. The Zrínyi Memorial Year offers an opportunity to recall and summon the memory and oeuvre of Miklós Zrínyi together with Hungarians from beyond our borders and living in diaspora. By summoning the form of the general and poet, you can learn about the historical roots of Hungarian-Croatian coexistence and interrelationship abroad. Following the hoped support of the Parliament, the planning of programmes in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade can and would like to play an active role in cultural and scientific diplomacy. A national series of programmes covering the Carpathian Basin and foreign representations around the world will be possible in connection with the Memorial Year, which presents the ideas and principles that govern the life of Miklós Zrínyi. The Zrínyi Memorial Year also provides a new framework for building Hungarian-Croatian political and cultural relations and can give new impetus. The home of Zrínyiek, Muraköz, is located in the territory of today's Croatia. Miklós Zrínyi's family, life and work are also felt by the Croatians. All of this meant a natural historical connection, and it still means a connection between our nations. The historical experience of many centuries proves that Hungarian-Croatian relations are an active, forming political factor in the Central European region. Hungarians and Croatians today agree on a number of fundamental issues, and our views are the same. The central issue for both governments is the preservation of the nation, the halting of demographic decline with the support of families, job creation, development policy. In addition, both governments are committed to protecting the rights of our minorities, their prosperity and their survival. I would also like to stress that we are committed to defence cooperation, that NATO is a cornerstone of European security, and together we will work together to ensure the security of the region, and together we will set up in my city, Székesfehérvár, the Central European Division Command, which will be a key to this security. We Hungarians believe that in order for our countries to succeed, we need strong Central European cooperation, both in the framework of NATO and in the framework of the European Union. Cooperation is the key for the countries of the region. It is good that the dialogue with Croatia is becoming increasingly meaningful on both multilateral and bilateral issues. Ladies and gentlemen, To the current foundations and opportunities of Hungarian-Croatian cooperation, we hope that this commemorative year will give us new impetus. We must make use of it and build on the fact that the legacy of Miklós Zrínyi is a historical link, which we must cultivate together in close cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Government supports the fact that 2020 is a commemorative year dedicated to the memory of Miklós Zrínyi, and I ask my fellow Members to support the resolution proposal before the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-20-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. Congressman Zoltán Fenyvesi, the lead speaker of Fidesz is the first. Here you go. [[Dr. László Varga will be replaced by György Szilágyi in the notary seat.]]
u2019-11-20-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the person of Miklós Zrínyi, we are here to commend a patriot whose importance, the efforts of Hungary, I believe, cannot be disputed by a good Hungarian person. Although the Memorial Year commemorates its 400th anniversary, it is worth considering that two days ago it was the 355th anniversary of his death on that tragic hunt. On November 18, 1664, a diverse career ended. In addition to his military and political career, he left us with an unparalleled work of writing. At first, Tolla was driven by the beauty of art and then by the fear of the fate of the country, and it was enough to mention only the Szigeti menace, the little tracta of Tábor, or the medicine against the Turkish aphium. He urged the establishment of an independent Hungarian army and defended the liberation of the country on its own. In his works he also explained his program of modernization and military organization, embodying the romantic form of a hero fighting with swords and ink. Undoubtedly, he was the most charismatic general and politician of his time. As a result of his argument, his career soon grew high, so he became Chief Commissioner of Croatia, and in time he gained the dignity of his country. However, it should also be mentioned that his heroism at the ends in the Vienna court did not raise the praise. He did not receive the support of the Habsburgs for his ideas, so he had to take control of it, but later he had to acknowledge the peace in Vasvár as an external observer, which, despite the previous European successes, was more favourable to the Turkish party. On the 400th anniversary of his birth, let us remember the great general, the influential politician ready to do so for his country, and one of the most outstanding figures of Hungarian Baroque literature. The Fidesz fraction supports the proposal for a resolution, and I ask my fellow Members to support you. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2019-11-20-65	Thank you very much. Congressman Adam Steinmetz, lead speaker of Jobbik, please.
u2019-11-20-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Mr Németh, Thank you very much for presenting this proposal for a resolution to this House, and I am sincerely grateful for the fact that, by giving Miklós Zrínyi a memento worthy of the year 2020 as his memorial, and I can support it with all my heart. Miklós Zrínyi is not only a poet, but also a general, who is well known and recognized in a wide range of Hungarian society. As a poet, think of his best known work, the Szigeti threat, and as a general, his most successful struggles against the extremely powerful Ottoman Empire. So it is no coincidence that a university campus and barracks were named after it in Hungary. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest to you that our respect for Miklós Zrínyi should not be expressed simply by adopting this proposal for a resolution, but by filling it with content, filling it with life next year. What exactly am I thinking? Let us support the construction of the Zrínyi Miklós monuments and the renovation of the existing ones; support the organisation of programmes involving the work of Zrínyi; support Miklós Zrínyi's literary works in both Hungarian and Croatian languages; and, if possible, allow literature and history to account for the life and work of Miklós Zrínyi in the next year's graduation course. Ladies and gentlemen, Miklós Zrínyi was born on May 3, 1620 and next year we celebrate the 400th anniversary of his birth. [[To the representatives of DK and MSZP:]] I would very much like you to listen to my speech. Thank you very much, because we are talking about a very important topic. On the other hand, we mentioned that he was an excellent poet, a famous general, but we didn't talk about whether we talked about him as a politician or not. Miklós Zrínyi has Croatian ethnic roots, he himself was Croatian, and therefore our Croatian friends, our Croatian neighbours, are also known and recognized. Many view him as a national hero, by the way. So I can fully agree with the provisions of this proposal for a resolution, as this commemorative year is also a worthy means of deepening Hungarian-Croatian bilateral relations. And as Vice President of the Hungarian-Croatian Friendship Department of the Interparlamentary Union, I have indicated on many occasions that we should make the birthday of Miklós Zrínyi, 3 May, the day of Croatian-Hungarian-Croatian friendship, a commemorative day in the spirit of this friendship, because I feel that the identity of Miklós Zrínyi is key in relations between the two countries and the two nations. So, finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like you to support both this proposal for a resolution and the day of Croatian-Hungarian friendship on 3 May, which I think it would be worthy to declare to be supported later, just as the Jobbik faction will very much support this proposal for a resolution. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-20-67	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of KDNP, please.
u2019-11-20-68	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Miklós Zrínyi was an outstanding figure in Hungarian history, who, by sacrificing himself, declared an eternal spiritual and spiritual monument to Hungarian heroism. Miklós Zrínyi is one of the historical figures who has been surrounded by cultic respect for centuries. His outburst from the castle of Szigetvár inspired several artists, including Bertalan Székely, Simon Hollósy and Tivadar Kostka Csontváry. It is important for the present to realize that the heroic fate of the defenders of Zrinyi and Szigetvár, as painful as it is, is as memorable as it is. Miklós Zrínyi and the martyrs of Szisvár must stand before us when making our decisions. But there are siren sounds. The siren sounds do not hesitate to question the historical truth in the case of Miklós Zrínyi as many of our heroes. They question that they were heroes, questioning the fact that they gave their lives for our Christian national survival. Ladies and Gentlemen, The year of remembrance is important to put the truth in place of falseness. It is important for our national self-image of the commemorative year that the heroes of Hungarian history also have a worthy image of Zrínyi. It is important, because we need to remember our common history, to understand what peace means, how precious cooperation is between peoples and nations and friendship. It is important, because we must also remember that not only our fathers, our grandfathers, our great-grandfathers, but also our beautiful fathers and their ancestors have sacrificed for their country. If we didn't remember all this, we wouldn't be worthy of their sacrifice and of being Hungarians. We know that only the tree grows high that is deeply rooted. Our roots are in the Hungarian heroes, because we claim to be Hungarian even if they want to crucify us for this. Zrinyi knew and we know that there is no resurrection without crucifixion. The fact that we are having a Zriny Memorial Year means that Hungary is strong again, paying attention to its past, to understand its present and to possess its future. The future to which the example of Miklós Zrinyi and the example of our dear heroes predesztieth us. Zrínyi knew that his outburst from the castle could not be effective, that against the multiple outnumbers, there could not be a war event leading to a winning battle. But he also knew that, instead of giving up on himself, submission would not result, but one thing: selfless sacrifice. Only selfless sacrifice can bring about a future for Hungarians and for Christianity. Zrinyi knew that the dead seed was producing a hundredfold. That's why he took the heroic death. The question is, what do we Hungarian Members of Parliament undertake? Do we take on our Hungarians, do we take on our Christianity, and does Hungarian society take on these things? Will you take on your Hungarians and Christianity? Therefore, it is important to remember the Memorial Year, and it is important to have a worthy example and worthy answers before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-20-69	Thank you very much. Just so many comments, please allow me to say that it was a problem even at the university that Hungarian aristocrat families often gave their offspring the same name. It is quite right here, what the Member has said, but the Memorial Year is not about this Miklós Zrínyi, but about his successor a century later, so it is not about the hero of Szigetvár, but about the poet and general. [[14.50]] All that you have been able to say about Miklós Zrínyi, the hero of Szigetvár, is fully in place, but the initiators of the commemorative year want to name the commemorative year after Miklós Zrínyi, born in 1620, so it is worth putting our thoughts in this context. Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP, please.
u2019-11-20-70	In view of the fact that the teacher has broadened historical knowledge, I will make it very short. Of course, we can support, in the name of the MSZP fraction, the declaration to the Memorial Day. I'm not having a hard time with this. This thousand years of cohabitation between Croatians and Hungarians, I believe, requires us to support it. Plus, I don't find it hard because I have Croatians among my ancestors. As a result, I think the least I can do is support the declaration to the Memorial Day in the name of the MSZP fraction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-20-71	Thank you very much. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK-leader!
u2019-11-20-72	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to add that I thank Congressman Vejkey for his contribution. There is no irony in my words. I consider that the discussion about the current Zrinyik has given us an opportunity to commemorate the great-grandfather as well. If that's in the record, I think it's okay. So without any vitriol comments, I think that this speech was still important. As a kind of scholar, as a former Hungarian scholar, I would like to mention one thing about Miklós Zrínyi, because it has not yet been mentioned. Miklós Zrínyi became part of poetry with the so-called Zrínyi verse. The verse composed of 12 syllable lines with accentuated poems, which ring with 4 final rhymes about Miklós Zrínyi is called the Zrinyi verse. Finally, let me serve you with a quote from Miklós Zrinyi:. If we bear ourselves well, all men will see us in the light of their light: if we are wrong, we cannot avoid pointing our finger at us. Let this be a guide for us too! The Democratic Coalition will, of course, support the Zriny Memorial Year. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-73	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches, Mr Parliament. We now have a two-minute speech, Mr László Keresztes Lóránt Group leader, LMP, in two minutes. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-74	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the work of the authors. It was a pleasure to listen to the consensus reached on the proposal. I think there is a complete consensus that Miklós Zrínyi plays a very serious role in Hungarian history, Hungarian literature and Hungarian military science, and therefore this proposal for a resolution is absolutely justified. So the goal is for next year to be the Memorial Year of Miklós Zrínyi. I am very, very pleased that both Mr Secretary of State and Congressman Steinmetz have said that it is the most important, it is right and it is effective if we fill this with content, and there will be concrete results. I am very pleased that it is in the proposal for a decision that this year should also be used to strengthen bilateral relations. Let me point out that I would like to point out as a Member of Baranya County, Pécs, although I think it is well known to all of us that there are areas that are lagging behind on both sides of the border, so if we want to do something about strengthening bilateral relations, we want to do something about development policy, it is very, very important that infrastructure conditions for cross-border cooperation also need to be created. We hope that this Memorial Year will also be an opportunity to make progress in this respect. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the addition. I, too, say without any negative comments that I was happy to listen to the speech by Congressman Vejkey; I think that there is great respect for the hero of Szigetvár. In itself, the thoughts expressed in the speech are appropriate, despite the fact that we are talking about a slightly different age. At the same time, let me point out that once we are drawn to such a depth of history, it is proposed that several instruments such as warships, two warships, have been named after Zrinyi. It deserves so much clarification, and I would also like to point out that in this respect, it was also correct, Mr Vejkey, to say that one of the battleships was not named after this particular Miklós Zrínyi, but after the Zrínyi nation. In this respect, this also points out a little that it was not wrong for Congressman Vejkey to speak. Of course, the LMP faction will support this proposal for a resolution with great pleasure and respect. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-75	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have Members who have asked for a normal word to speak. Congressman Tamás Csányi, Jobbik, please.
u2019-11-20-76	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I know we've got a lot of work to do today, and I might be a little off-topic right now, because I'd like to connect the great-grandfather and the poet, and I'd like to do it with the 17th. I would quote the poet Miklós Zrínyi himself from the century, a very important detail of the Szigeti peril, which will be about the sins of the Hungarians, and I would like to convey it to our soul to learn from it. That's what it says, and I apologize for my interpretation, but I'm still doing my best. The great Almighty looked to the earth, / From a face-to-face he looked at the world, / But most of all he remembered Hungarians, / They did not walk the way whom his Son had ordered. / He saw the irresistibleness of the Hungarian, having despised God for his worship of the whale; / Only that he would release the oatla into his mouth; / Only that his holy name had no veneration, / that the blood of his innocent Son had no veneration, / that there was no veneration of the good deed of the Oriental, / No old man had no veneration; / But much depraved morality and heavy blasphemy, / envy, hatred and false counseling, / Ferocious lewdness and slander, / Stealing, man-killing and eternal bulging. / For these things, Michael's arsenal was called to him. And in his fierce anger he commanded, and before his sanctity stood his ant with his ant: /, Look at those hard necks and proud scits / Good Hungarians that are very degenerate, / Beautifully Christian cold feet, / They are beautiful to different religions. I have brought it out of Scitiab, which they needed; / My holy spirit also fell upon them. / Sciabol, I say I have brought them out, / Like Egypt has taken the Jewish people, / I have beaten nations with my mighty arm, / I have made trouble everywhere, I have lost enemies. / In beautiful Pannonia with honey, / I settled them in Hungary, / And I blessed them in all its jaws, / I listened, I helped them in all things; / In fact, I blessed them with a brave virgin, / Because a good Hungarian chased another ten, / Sohul did not find such a great enemy, / He who, as dust before the wind, did not wander away. / I've sent my holy girl on them. I brought it by my son on the hütre, / I also gave it to the holy kings, / I gave them peace and honor. / But for so many good things, ah, it's hard to say! / Ah, they're unthankful and dared to die, / they're not ashamed to betray Gods, / they're against me to dive in all evil. / Ah, I regret, so much good that I thought I was, / Didn't I raise vipers in my bosom? / But now it is time for me to tell them: / I am the great avenger God. / Go therefore, ant, land in hell, / Choose one in angry furies, / And send it to Sultan Suliman, / Get it in anger against the Hungarians. / And I give Turks the power to ruin the bad Hungarians, to lose the bad Hungarians, / Till they know that they have left their lords. / They cry out to me, and I don't hear them, / but I'll laugh at their difficult causes: / I won't listen to their complaints, / I won't look at them. / This will be until I have my revenge, / There will be a punishment for them till the third-quarter taste; / And if in his days they do not take it in mind, / my curse shall be eternal, my wrath shall be upon them. / But if they come to me, I will repent of sins, / I will bring them back to life from death. / Oh, Turk, you, the rod of my anger! / It's you, but I'll break you if these come back. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-77	Thank you very much. Congressman Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz! [[15.00]]
u2019-11-20-78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I think this proposal, which concerns the Memorial Year, is very important, and I am pleased that it seems to be a consensus, because Miklós Zrínyi is indeed an excellent patriot who deserves to be remembered hundreds of years later, to be celebrated in a worthy manner. We know that in almost every major Hungarian settlement, including Karcagon, there is a street named after it, so in the memory of the Hungarian people, in the memory of the art world, in the memory of the political world, there is a prominent place for it. But it is important to always find new content, always add to the commemorative events that have been held by previous anniversaries. Dear Parliament, I think it is very important that historical monuments, which may be located outside our borders, in the territory of Croatia today, or within our borders, be strengthened by memorial plaques, informational inscriptions, as well as by the establishment of memorial sites, by the selection of thematic historical hiking trails, should also be focused on sites that may have fallen out of historical public consciousness, as the Zrinyi family and the poet and warlord Miklós Zrinyi are in the fortunate position that almost all the significant sites of his life are preserved, those buildings, those walls still exist in better or less good condition. So information boards, Hungarian-language, multilingual subtitles, I think help those who travel through these places for literary, military and biographical aspects. Such as the castle of Zrínyi, the name-giving castle of the family in Central Croatia. It's a ruined property, but the renovation started a few years ago. You're waiting for your pick towers, where major renovations took place. The church in Szentilona, where the family's funeral tomb is located, is the Zrinyi crypt. It's an excavated but unfinished architectural work. The Castle of Ozaly, a very important place for the family, was born there by the way. New Zrínyivár is located next to the Dráva, where archaeological exploration takes place, it is also suitable for the construction of a memorial site. And perhaps the sad location deserves attention, too, where the tragic hunting accident occurred at the time, where there is a memorial in a cultural environment, but I believe that the place and the event deserve to be used by our Croatian brothers to make use of this anniversary to make it an even more worthy historic memorial place, therefore, the Kursanec Memorial Column's environment and its settlement. I think it is important to have publications, multilingual subtitles, multilingual access in this regard, because, as has been said, Zrínyi is the common hero of two peoples, but he was also given attention in other countries of Europe. So, to make the oeuvre as widely known as possible, I think it justifies taking steps in this direction. And there are other locations, of course, of which I am now ignoring. I trust the Memorial Year will be a success. The first conditions, I see, are already in place, are given, and we can use the opportunity to strengthen patriotic education, to present literary heritage, to strengthen diplomatic relations and good neighbourly relations. So that's why I trust that the Parliament will accept the resolution proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-11-20-79	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to speak up? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Congressman Németh if he wishes to reflect. [[On the sign of István Szilárd Németh:]] Here you go.
u2019-11-20-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to thank everyone very briefly, both the pro-government and the opposition representatives, for their attitude. Thank you for the constructive proposals of our Minister of Government and also for the proposals made by our opposition champion. It was very nice to hear how widely everyone spoke to him and in accordance with his own framed mind. [[To Tamás Csányi:]] Thank you for the Zrínyi-strophy; we learned it in high school, Győző Ferencz was my teacher, so I even remember these little games in which he tried to teach us the nature of the poetry. Thank you for literally quoting Zrínyi and making today a better day. It was really nice to hear that you all remembered the young Zrinyi who was born 400 years ago, or will be born 400 years ago next year, but we would like to remember the whole family, so, of course, we also heard the hero of the island threat and Ilona Zrinyi mentioned by Minister; it was a very extensive family. Of course, the Croatian-Hungarian relations are also included in the proposal for a resolution, and we would like to make the thousand years we have spent here at least more solemnly. Of course, if the decision is taken, the process will not stop, so all the substantive demands you have made and all the noble demands you have made will appear in the future. I'm asking you to monitor and participate in the programme of the Memorial Year itself, and I'm going to give everyone an opportunity to do so, a memorial committee will be set up. I think that this Parliamentary resolution proposal is one of the few where we have achieved such a good consensus. Thank you very much, everyone.
u2019-11-20-81	Thank you very much. As President-in-Office, I thank you, and welcome you on the occasion that there is full agreement on an important matter from all the factions of the Hungarian Parliament. It's all right. [[It's a rare applause.]] I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The National Film Institute Public Use Nonprofit Zrt. will follow the various laws. a general debate on the draft law on its amendment in the context of its establishment until its closure. The government referral is T/8037. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-11-20-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We have discussed this topic several times here in Parliament, so there is a legitimate expectation that, first of all, we will be able to clarify the purpose of the current legislative amendments. Legislative amendments have a number of aims. We would like the Hungarian film industry to take further levels after the results of recent years. We would like more quality creations to be created, and they will reach even more viewers here at home and abroad. To this end, we are proposing a single, transparent institutional framework. What we want is for resources to be used even more efficiently and for works to be produced on a wide range of topics. There is another underlying reason, and that is that we are aware that, thanks to digital tools, media consumption patterns are changing significantly, and we need to keep up with them, especially with regard to the needs of young generations. I have just mentioned that the Hungarian film industry has reached a level in the past period. On the one hand, this can be derived from the fact that Hungarian films have received a number of prestigious international awards. We're talking hundreds of awards, including Oscar, Gold Globes, Cannes Grand Prix, Berlin Gold Bear. And to mention current opportunities or awards, for the first time this year Hungarian creators were nominated for the international Emmy Prize, which is considered practically Oscar by the TV filmmaker Gera Marina was nominated for the star role of Eternal Winter. This piece was created with the support of the Mecenatura program. Péter Bergendy's movie Trezor was among the top five candidates in the TV film category. The awards are due in New York on November 25th. We wish the creators good luck from here, too. We can also support the level step of the Hungarian film industry and motion picture industry from the economic side. The direct film production costs have been higher than HUF 100 billion each year since 2017. We can say that the contribution of the film industry to the national product is also high in Hungary in a European comparison. And what is the significance of this: it is calculated that the tax refund of HUF 1000 for each film production generates tax revenue of HUF 1248 and increases GDP, the national product by HUF 3240, and which is just as important, creates a lot of jobs. This means that the film industry provides a significant surplus for Hungary and the Hungarian economy. As far as the institutional system is concerned, we are beyond the first steps of structural renewal of the motion picture industry, and Andy Vajna played an inexhaustible role in this. We have to go this way. Mafilm, Filmlab and international sales have already produced good results, strengthening the film industry as revenue producing units. The protection of cultural values is just as important. Within the framework of the National Film Digitalisation and Restoration Program, 25-30 Hungarian feature films are renewed annually. [[15.10]] So we can say that the renewal of the Hungarian film industry has begun, but its completion is still ahead of us, and Csaba Káel's appointment, who can work as government commissioner for further strengthening Hungarian culture, can play an important role in this. Dear House, The most important element of the proposals we are discussing is the establishment of the National Film Institute on 1 January, based on the foundations of the National Film Fund. This new institute would bring together existing grants, eliminate duplication, and thus bring them together, thus achieving an even more efficient operation with the same budgetary effort. The film institute will be the successor to the support tasks performed by the Television Film Mecenature and the Television Film College. The aim is to ensure that, in addition to the support system, the distribution principles are uniform, so that works are made available to the widest possible audience, which can also increase revenue. I consider it to be a very important circumstance, so before the debate about the use of such practices in other EU countries, such uniform principles of institutions are in charge of the motion picture industry, for example, in France, Denmark or in Ireland. As I mentioned at the beginning of the expo, the aim is to adapt the new regulation to the needs of younger generations and to changing consumption patterns. Film grants can no longer be understood only in the distribution of movies or television, formats will change, new ones will be created, as new distribution channels have appeared. The works, we think, must also appear on these, the support programmes should only ensure interoperability between channels for this reason. Dear House, In the previous debates on film law and in the Hungarian public, there is much talk about historical films, I think that there is a reason. This is not a coincidence, because we may all agree that Hungarian life, Hungarian culture, preserves many stories that are worth processing either for the first time or for many times. In addition to the historical events, our artists' lives, works and uniquely rich literature serve as raw materials and motivations. Support programmes should provide frameworks to facilitate the processing of these subjects. I could also say a hundred more historical, cultural films, a thousand! A little further back to the economic approach, it is not the last point that the new film institute will provide predictable, continuous job opportunities for film industry players. In order to strengthen this intention, it is important to improve the training system, which is a prerequisite for further level leaps. The aim is to reach as many creations as possible on more distributed channels to a wider audience, with high quality expectations. As far as the budgetary side of the proposal is concerned, the new film institution will have the same budgetary resources as before, which will be covered by redeployments linked to restructuring. Dear House, I would like to highlight one more aspect, and this is the international one. We see great opportunities in Central European cooperation in other areas, including film production. Our common history, our common cultural heritage, is a strong foundation to speak more strongly to 150 million citizens of the region than ever before, especially the countries of the Visegrád Four. And speaking of international contexts, the new film institute is expected to strengthen the international representation of Hungarian film. Based on the above, I can tell you that this is a proposal that serves the interests of Hungarian film production, building on its decades of tradition. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-20-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mainnote speakers will be held. First, we will hear from Congressman L. Simon László, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-84	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that Mr Secretary of State has summarised the substance of the proposal well, so I would just like to add a few things to my keynote speech. I would like to go a little further back in the past than he did, because we must not forget that before 2010, before the beginning of the work of the second Orbán government, the Hungarian film industry was in a crisis, the Hungarian film industry and Hungarian cinema, because the Hungarian Moving Image Public Foundation, which, by the way, serves the purpose of supporting and supporting the creation, commercialisation and delivery to the community of valuable Hungarian films, was built up to an unprecedented degree of debt. Consolidating this Hungarian Motion Picture Public Foundation was not easy at all because of the legal status of the public foundation, and professional resistance was also felt. The film profession, in a manner of speaking, with incompetence, some distance, was not in one case a strong criticism of the rehabilitation work that we started in the period after the second Orbán government came into government. However, I must say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that time has justified the government's ambitions, and this has also been confirmed by the Hungarian film society, and it has accepted and even recognised the values of the newly set-up system. In particular, it is with great respect that Commissioner Andy Vajna, who returned to his homeland as one of the outstanding producers of the film world, an international film world, has successfully consolidated the vast loss accumulated by the Hungarian Movement Picture Public Foundation and has successfully set up the new film support system, which has resulted in both economic and aesthetic works. At the same time, let us not go past the fact that in recent years, while the film society acknowledged it, and the wider audience and the political public acknowledged that the elimination of the Hungarian Motion Picture Public Foundation and the establishment of a new film support system were successful, that there were really valuable works, and that two Oscar awards were managed during this period and other international awards were collected by Hungarian filmmakers, while serious professional, to say, identity polarities were developed in the Hungarian public and, more than once, here in the House or in the Parliament's Cultural Committee. After all, it's a lot of question marks, a lot of lack of feeling that we've expressed, which we've voiced. By the way, this did not develop along pro-government or opposition fault lines, but basically we missed both the party of government and the opposition and the wider public that both the film support system managed by the Commissioner of the Government, but partly the Mecenatura Fund could not help the creation of many of the productions, not necessarily the intention was lacking, but the proper structure and the proper financing and legal background, so it could not serve the creation of many works that we believe and hope could contribute to the strengthening and completion of Hungarian national identity with the power of art. And let us not underestimate this power, ladies and gentlemen, because we know very well how much a good, demanding film, capable of addressing a wide audience, can trigger, for example, historical films. The mode of action of the audience of a historical feature film, the messages in them, is quite different from, say, historical work. And it seems that I talk regularly about the historical cataclysms of the communist dictatorship after World War II, that historians, especially the youngest generation, have already started the deficit replacement work at the time of the regime change, can almost say that they have succeeded. After all, even the operation of state security, the operation of other organs of dictatorship, the mechanisms of functioning at all, the effects of dictatorship on the soul and heart have been the subject of many valuable scientific work, and these work have had an impact on public education and the authors of textbooks. But let's be honest, a historian's work is not read by a wide audience. You know, a historian's work can't produce the effect of, say, a significant artwork reaching a catharsis that many people see in the cinema halls. We also talked several times in the Committee on Culture about the fact that films such as the life of others in Germany, which processed Stasi's operation, were shocking, and not only showed German audiences the complexity, contradiction and immeasurable cruelty of the communist system, but also the audience of the successor states of the Eastern European bloc could learn from this film, learn how state security worked, and how it affected the human soul, how it crippled the everyday lives of people, families, and generations of lives. [[15.20]] If we start from just this example, then we have the right to suggest that similar films are needed. And then the Tresor film quoted by the State Secretary and many other films could be said. It seems that in the last four to five years this has started in the television feature film production, and very valuable, very exciting historical films have been made, for example, from World War I. Think of the film Grey Nobodys, the first film of World War I. We don't have any other feature films, artistic works. It is true that this is only a 50-minute television movie, but it has finally produced a good quality, good script, exciting and capable of presenting the trauma of the end of World War I. But not from the post-World War I period, let us think of Trianon, the trauma of Trianon, or the history of Hungary between the two world wars, the beginning of Hungary, the reconstruction, then the Second World War, the post-World War II period, especially the takeover of Communists and the subsequent one-party dictatorship. All of this gives us topics, and we have personal life stories and fates from which we can create great and powerful works for both youth and wide audiences. These are the movies we've missed in recent years. And, of course, during a debate, more far-reaching topics have emerged from the Middle Ages or from the period of conquest. They are important films that can process very good topics and which are similar to those produced in Europe and overseas in recent years, and which have had a major impact on the particular societies in which they were produced; but not only in their own country, but also in ours, where appropriate, through the distribution of films. You always have the right to ask why we have to watch so many American historical feature films. These are very good historical feature films; but if we see and know more and more the history of Americans, if we know their mythologies, we know their stories going all the way up to the small city level that can provide general human lessons, then why do we not see these stories from our own world? How many American sports films have we seen in the last decades? For example, they can make a huge story out of the story of a small town basketball coach. And here is our Hungarian sports story, which could bring up wonderful stories. For example, think of Olivér Halassi, that fantastic water polo Olympic champion, long-term word, fast-swimming champion, whose foot was cut off by the tram when he was a kid, and so he became a Hungarian champion, European champion, world champion and Olympic champion. And if we were to look at his whole life story, how the Soviet soldiers killed him after the Second World War, the glorious liberators, how they dragged him out of his car, tried to confiscate his car, and shot him, what a story, how diverse, what a great story the Americans would have made a feature film of. But I could mention anyone from the Hungarian sports history who actually made history. These stories are, let's put it this way, these common narratives are worthy of making films that not only are watched by the Hungarian audience, but also by the viewers of the Central European friendly countries, to watch in the cinemas of Europe, and, in the best case, to watch overseas as well. Not to dispute the fact that many valuable works have been created, we believe that there is still a need for much creation and support. What else is there if this is not what motivated the government to finally unify the film support system? What else, if not a structure was set up in the mind of the government and the government commissioner responsible for preparing the tasks, Csaba Káel, in order to create a new, more modern, parallelized system so that more successful quality works could be created in Hungary? I think that we should support this regardless of party affiliation. We have a proposal ahead of us that I think the opposition will be able to support. Not only should we be able to unite and be positive in symbolic matters such as the memory of an excellent writer, poet, Miklós Zrínyi, but also in such specific laws, and we can show that the creation of a good system is not only in the interest of the government, but also in the opposition. The government's key objective is to further develop and strengthen the Hungarian film industry, based on the results of recent years, based on what Commissioner Andy Vajna has done, and based on what has also been achieved in the television field programme, also implemented in the support system created by the Film Mecenation and Television College, I think that we can establish and establish a much more effective, much more thought-out, much more effective support system here today. And then the next question is that, if we have adopted this law, the resulting national film institution, which, according to the law, would stand up on 1 January 2020, will actually be able to carry out the task of providing personnel, infrastructure and financial guarantees to enable it to fulfil its legislative intention. I am also confident in this matter, just because of Csaba Kael's person. I am optimistic about this too, just because of the professional consensus behind the whole initiative. So I urge my fellow Members to support this bill with similar optimism. It is no secret, therefore, on the basis of what I just referred to as polarities, that it is clear to the government that the deficits, the needs that have appeared in the public and in the parliamentary debates are indeed problems to be addressed. For this reason, together with the government, we want the film industry to better serve our national identity, to make the film industry one of the key sources of national identity, to make films with Hungarian taxpayers' money, to make many, many valuable comedy, many, many valuable documentary films and many, many interesting psychological dramas, to make historical films that can strengthen the identity of a wide audience. Ladies and gentlemen, There are many similar institutions in Europe. I could set Denmark as an example, I could set Ireland as an example, or the aid scheme that has been operating in France for a very long time. All of these positive examples encourage us to reorganize the current Hungarian National Film Fund Public Benefit Nonprofit Zrt. and film schools in a similar way, and to establish the national film institute as of January 1, 2020. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that we will also be able to integrate into the single business structure elements which, separately, were not the most effective. I'm thinking about the movie, the movie archive, the film lab. This will create a very effective and very powerful organisation if we accept this bill. And what Mr Secretary of State referred to in the author's exposé is the possibility of cooperation in Central Europe. This could be a two-way cooperation, partly with the V4 countries and partly with the other post-communist countries in Central Europe. Part of this could be co-production and marketing cooperation, i.e. we will be able to cooperate in manufacturing, and we will also be able to cooperate in the field of film distribution. It is in our interest to see as many Hungarian films as possible for Slovak, Czech, Polish, Romanian, Serbian, Croatian, Slovenian viewers and, of course, others, and we are obviously curious about the values of their film culture. This bill also serves this purpose, and I can say, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, that we support the Government's intention to the utmost extent, and I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-85	Thank you. Congressman Brenner Koloman, please. [[15.30]]
u2019-11-20-86	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In my speech as Chief Speaker, since Mr Secretary of State has presented the main content of this bill in a very fair manner, I will disregard that. I'd rather pick up where my colleague L. Simon László left off. I think, as has been said many times in the Committee on Culture, that the fact that Andy Vajna has renewed the film world in Hungary has completely come to the full attention of the Hungarian public, in a way that overrides all party affiliations. However, as my fellow Member L. Simon László also said, we have a lot of missing feelings about historical films. Of course, I can only join you. Some examples have been taken, not to list, but I would like to mention only one film: I would like to mention the movie Eternal Winter, as an excellent and positive example of the fate of the German national population, who was taken to the Málenkaj robot, largely in Hungary. I also fully agree that, on the other hand, we lack the great, if I may say so, monumental historical films. For similar films, I think, if this is not the guarantee of the bill and the new structure, it would be more my view that, if it were to be said so, the members of the arbitration committee and the entire funding system would push the film profession, the film system, in this direction. Another thought, since the National Film Institute to be set up would now include both the media field and the film community, here in the case of TV-film applications I would like to point out to the government that two or three rather popular producers have won in general. I would like to see greater openness and a greater base of dipping in order to truly achieve the goal of making these historical films, supported by all of us, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to make these films appear in a very serious and accessible form for the wider public. As far as the whole structure is concerned, I'm number three. I would like to refer to §2 where it can be seen that, so far, in the Film Fund, Andy Vajna's role as CEO has reflected a rather hegemonic governance structure, and this is placed in the newly set-up body, which is therefore subject to a arbitration committee. I very much hope, as I said at the beginning, that this will result in a truly broader consensus and more popularised films being implemented. I have a specific recording here. It is that so far, the members of the film committee were subject to a minimum of five years of professional experience as a condition. This bill would get that out of here. With all due respect, I would ask that this be returned to the text of the law, since it is not a strong condition in our opinion, but it is a kind of, but only a professional guarantee that it will not be a political appointment alone. One final critical comment, which is also absolutely constructive, would concern farming. The Secretary of State has also mentioned this in his exposé that, if I quote the Secretary of State, there are transfers to the budgetary background of this new region. According to the current law, here the Film Fund managed 80% of the six-lott revenue. I think this has ensured a kind of stability and independence from political decision-making that I think it would be good to keep. After all, to ensure it through transfer is practically a political decision, while it is 80 percent of the six-lott revenue, and it means an automaticism, which can also be supplemented by even more budgetary resources. So here I would like to point out with respect that, in this bill, this is still thought over by the authors, because I think that this basic objective of this bill, which is also supported by Jobbik, would certainly help the Hungarian film industry to enter a further uplifting stage. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-20-87	Thank you very much. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of DK is coming.
u2019-11-20-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, [[The screen shows the name of Dr. Imre Vejkey.]]
u2019-11-20-89	Wait a minute.
u2019-11-20-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to add that, on the one hand, I am in love with the Hungarian film, so I am happy with every single Hungarian film success even if the Hungarian film does not achieve that success under our government. Therefore, I never consider it a government success if a Hungarian film wins a festival award, whether it wins an Oscar Prize or wins an Oscar Prize in Berlin or wins it in Cannes, or wins it anywhere else, because I think it is very often subjective, lucky, addicted to acting, addicted to lobby, and I can still list it for a long time. In 1982, when the Mephisto won the Oscar Prize, the Lázár government controlled Hungary, I would not think that I should remember György Lázár with gratitude and love when I watch Mephisto, say, sixty-four times on television or in my own collection. The other is that you say that the new structure will be a kind of continuity with Andy Vajna's work. Well, no. It is possible to respect Andy Vajna for the way he renewed Hungarian film production, and I think his merits are inexorable. I do not want to talk about other public engagements here and now, because I would make very sharp and critical comments, and that is not relevant at the moment. But it's not continuance that the new head of the institute kicked everyone out of the board without a man who was working with Andy Vajna. The people who were Andy Vajna's closest co-workers were virtually directors and screenwriters of the films he produced, and they achieved very serious Hungarian film success and success in Hungarian cinemas over the past few years. I also have to respond to the fact that we are going to play that situation again, and the Fidesz MEPs are going to pretend that before 2010 the Hungarian film-making destruction was itself, as if the whole country were equal to the earth, and such fantastic new things happened. I would like to point out that there were Hungarian festival sikers, movie sikers. From Szabolcs Hajdú to Antal Nimrod, many young people started the work. The greats of the great film generation could still create, from Péter Bacsó to Károly Makk to Elemér Ragályi. I would also like to say that a lot of historical films have been made in those eight years, such as a film about Trianon or a film about Péter Mansfeld or a film about Imre Nagy. So neither is it true that only the Fidesz government deals with Hungarian memory, Hungarian history or XX. With the great turning moments of the century. This has happened during our government. And for that I am not grateful to them either, their duty was fulfilled by all those who did these tasks. I would also like to add a few sentences that, in the last few days, a sharp criticism has been expressed by the Fidesz Members, that the MSZP-SZDSZ world and the new party are coming back to bring back the old people, aren't they? Well, Csaba Káel is the old man, the old man of the Orbán government between 98 and 2002, Orszáromimázs Központ, Ezüstvány Kft. I like to remember, there were even criminal reports in these cases. [[15.40]] This is, of course, one part of the assessment, another part of the perception that Csaba Káel is a talented creator, but I would like to point out that you, with this staff policy, are denying that these people who are today, say, in capital city positions, bring the old people back. Csaba Káel is the old man, from much earlier than the people you criticize. I would also like to add to the story that I consider it extremely important that historical films be made, feature films are made, and television works are made. I think it's worth giving budget money for. Here again, I just have to tell you a very important point. If you are interested in the Hungarian film, then why did you have to eliminate the M3 channel, the most important value channel of public television for me, the television where you could choose from the archive of Hungarian Television containing unique treasures, you could see great films again, you could see fantastic portraits made with our former writers, poets and actors. I don't understand why you had to take that off. I don't think it cost that much to maintain this one channel. I think that maintaining M4 television or even the lie prices of one-minute newscasts will cost a lot more in a month or two than the annual budget for the M3 channel. I think that it would also be worth reopening this debate, and I think that those who have the opportunity and the responsibility to do so should propose it, a lot of people loved this TV, and a lot of people would like to see cultural values again from our old grandmothers on the screen of Hungarian television. I would like to add to the film structure that it would be nice to see these applications as widely as possible in public, so that the questions about who can direct a movie or who can't direct a film, who is the director who is employed and who isn't on the basis of a friend. So it would be very important for this to be made public as widely as possible. The issue of Hungarian film is a national matter, it is extremely important for all of us, and therefore I think, given what billions of people are going to go to completely unnecessarily, we are talking about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 billion, and I am not starting the match that they have just handed over a facility that cost 190 billion, how many films could have been made of it, or large cultural festivals, big historical films about Miklós Zrínyi, or I do not know where the film planned for the battle of Nándorfehérvár is going, but XX. The century also has a lot of fate-changing stories. For example, I would very much like to see a film about the life of István Bethlen, who is the XX. He was one of the most important politicians of the century, from being a Transylvanian nobleman to becoming a Russian prisoner of war, and I could list him for a long time until the change of regime. After the change of regime was very far away now, 30 years ago, we could also make new films about it, not necessarily by asking the old characters, but by simply dramatizing, not just Ferenc Török's film Moscow Square reminding us of the time when many young people did not even know what a change of regime was. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-91	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP, please.
u2019-11-20-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Zsolt Gréczy said almost similar things, so I would not repeat them, but it is clear that this law was made for Andy Vajna, God rest his soul! Csaba Kael returns, the silver sailor and the countrylike Csaba Kael. Although the opposition is preferred to be harassed by bringing back the people of the past, the name of Csaba Kael is not unknown, as we know, in this profession; but Vajna, as my fellow Members have said, was praised to the heavens, and now all of her people, essentially everyone, have been fired, but that should really be your problem. For our part, we believe that the bill will bring about a change in practically the life of the entire Hungarian film industry, eliminating the Hungarian National Film Fund, the Film Mecenature and the Television Film College as well as creating the National Film Institute, the NFI as its successor. All signs suggest that the ambition is towards centralisation, centralisation, the institution is now financed directly in the central budget. The Ministry designated by the Government will continue to function as an independent department and the 2004 II on motion picture. Act III. Chapter 3 of the Act loses its fundamental character. Therefore, given the efforts to further centralise the domestic film industry, the MSZP does not support the adoption of the bill. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-11-20-93	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State Dömötör. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond briefly. Several opinions and proposals of a professional nature have been made, and I would like to thank you specifically for this because we should be pleased with every day and such debate that is not about style, nor about disorderly conduct, so I would like to express my thanks to all the factions. I'll try to get in line. As far as Andy Vajna's role is concerned, I remember debates about what he was doing, what his team is doing, with extremely serious criticisms. God rest his soul, he is no longer in the ranks of the living, but I take it from the speeches that there is now a kind of consensus around the work that he has done, and perhaps we can agree on that. As for the Betterman's sense of absence in the history of movies, the thing is, I share it personally. I too would like to see a lot more historical creations, but one thing we have to consider is one thing that we want to see. I'd like to see more historical movies, too. We may also have an opinion on who we would like to see these historical films from. Mr Gréczy mentioned some of the actors, I agree with István Bethlen, but we may not agree on anything else, and I think that politics must limit itself in determining what the creators are making a film about beyond one point. Our job is to provide the right framework, adequate budgetary resources, a well-functioning institutional system, and this bill serves this purpose. You mentioned the matter of the board. Indeed, a body will manage this institute, which is an appropriate guarantee to apply a variety of aspects, professional aspects and, moreover, efficiency aspects, because they also need to be economically operated. As far as DK's points are concerned, Congressman Gréczy is pleased with all Hungarian films, all Hungarian movies are successful, so would I, and the government does not normally say that this is the success of the government, this is the success of the creators, but I am going further, all such films are successful in Hungary. As for the comment on the destruction before 2010, you brought this up, and we talked about it for a reason, and we talked about it earlier. So before 2010, we believe it was a messy situation, one of which was that the Hungarian Mobile Machine Public Foundation generated a huge spiral of debt, generating a debt of 6 billion on the basis of contracts with the public foundation, behind which there was no award at all. For example, the Ministry of Culture also concluded grant contracts without having any budgetary coverage. These practices had to be eliminated, and you can no longer report such practices, none of which exist. [[15.50]] As for the people of the past, the old people: the problem is not that people who have already taken a role are involved, but that there is a problem when people who have been given the opportunity to prove themselves again have failed badly, and this has resulted. Let's see, in the mayor's office, who came back, they left behind a very serious financial chaos. I don't want to open this question here, it's not here... [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Silver ship, and it was so bright. It was shiny.]] its place, but it doesn't matter at all. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Don't open it any more than I did.]] What the people of the past left behind and what the consequences of that country were. But I don't want to open this topic any more here. As regards the proposals for public television: the Ministry is not responsible for what channel will be launched. It is noted in the report that even opposition parties believe that public television has activities that it is doing well. And if I look at the fact that earlier you argued that less public television should be managed, and now you're suggesting that a channel should be restarted, then I would just quietly note that these two proposals for less money to be re-launched are not in line. To sum up, I would like to say that the Hungarian motion picture industry has a very large tradition, and this is also a responsibility to all of us, to which we must comply. This bill, which we are discussing now, is simultaneously validating the needs of the film industry, the needs of the general public, and it also meets our long-term expectation that the works will further enrich and strengthen Hungarian culture. We want the Hungarian film to continue to be a source of national pride, and we believe that the proposals we are discussing will serve this goal, and therefore, regardless of party political convictions, they are worth all of us supporting them. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-20-95	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws relating to the family protection action plan until closure. Government referral T/8013. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that during the debate, the government is represented by two wallets, the Ministry of Human Resources and the Ministry of Finance. Accordingly, the opening speech will also be presented by two authors, especially when both of them are present. As a first instance, who is already present is the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, Mr Attila Philip. So I'll give you the floor. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-11-20-96	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you contains proposals for amendments to a number of disciplines, so I would first talk about social and family law and then, Mr State Secretary, about amendments to the Labour Code. [[Sándor Bodó arrives in the Chamber.]] The bill includes amendments to a number of laws, including special care for children, elderly care, rehabilitation services and family policy. The bill serves the government's social objectives since 2010, i.e. further improving the situation of families raising children, helping those who really need it, and protecting workers who receive grandparents' childcare fees. Although a number of results have been achieved in recent years, such as the introduction of a child's home care fee or the unprecedented expansion of family support funds, but work and development will always be there and will always be a place, this is the spirit of this bill, which includes further forward-looking efforts and measures. First, allow me to explain the important provisions in the social field. First of all, we would like to raise the service of elementary visual rehabilitation to a legal level. This is the type of rehabilitation that appears after medical rehabilitation, before employment rehabilitation. In Hungary today we have about 90,000 vision-damaged compatriots, this number increases every year by 4-5 thousand, so by adopting this law, the Hungarian Parliament can give people who lose their sight the opportunity to rejoin the majority society. In the framework of the elementary rehabilitation service, the visually impaired person acquires the basic skills needed to be able to live with the highest possible autonomy and to work at a later stage. This is a direct link to the government's endeavour to get more people with disabilities to work, as many people with disabilities have their own income, because it is economic interest on the one hand, and the fundamental purpose of disability on the other hand can be to try to help a self-employed life, and to live on their own, it is necessary to have accessibility and then to earn an independent income. Within the framework of the rehabilitation service, clients are taught transport, household management, the use of IT tools or Braille and other qualities that make everyday life easier. The bill provides this possibility from the age of 16 to ensure that the visually impaired person can obtain the service free of charge in any territory of the country. The second amendment concerns weed and care fees, which are to facilitate administration. Appreciation of family members and caregivers is important, so the government has taken several positive measures over the past years to support those engaged in this activity, to strengthen the social security of their families, to introduce a child care fee in 2019 and to decide to increase the care fee to a specified extent every year until 2022. Our goal remains to gradually support the families who care for their sick children and their parents by continuing to take measures so far in favour of those who receive weed and care. In this context, we are proposing to reduce administrative burdens in this legislation. On the one hand, the opinion in force for at least one more year in the case of the application for a weed or care fee will be acceptable in the new care fee procedure and, if the client wishes to apply for a care fee within 30 days of the rejection of the application for weed, the entitlement to the care fee will be granted from the date of submission of the request for weed. So this is a positive amendment. In the third point, the introduction of IT support. In the social child protection area, two new IT systems are proposed. One is the introduction of an IT system for the protection of our children, and the other is the IT system for the correctional institutions and the specialised services there. From this point of view, it is possible to increase efficiency and to standardise the application of the law by providing advanced and already indispensable IT tasks. These systems will help the care of 23,000 children and adults, 5200 professionals working there. As a fourth amendment, I would like to highlight the possibility of identifying methodological institutions for churches and amending and simplifying the rules on funding. The amendments to the bill concerning personal care should be highlighted in order to increase the involvement of churches in the social care system. To this end, the bill allows the non-State maintainer receiving supplementary church support under the international treaty to be designated as a church methodological institution. We would also like to help to make the rules for inclusion in the financing system more flexible. The amending provision ensures that church maintainers are more easily eligible for funding if they carry out a municipal social task under a supply contract or take on such a task from another maintainer. [[16.00]] As a fifth important element, I would like to highlight the introduction of assisted housing in child protection. Children's protection has been explicitly and prominently supported by the government, so let's just think that the foster parents' employment relationship was introduced in 2014 or that foster parents will be able to apply for a new form of family support from 1 January next year. But it is also important for children's homes and foster parents to have a new form of care, a form of assisted housing, which we hope will help children with special needs or dual needs and need more effort and support. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] As a sixth amendment, I would like to highlight an important amendment to older homes, which means that the adoption of this amendment will enable a new type of institution to be created that will provide solutions and long-term care for older people who wish to use a wider range of services. The introduction of the new rules is justified by the legitimate need and noticeable demand for such services to be available to our elderly countrymen who wish to provide for themselves in their old age, but who are not entitled to nursing care at the present time. At the same time, it is also important to stress that the new form of care does not affect the care of people in existing nursing homes or the provision of State-supported seats in any form, because the home of elderly people currently operating cannot be transformed into such a service provider, only a new institution can function and cannot use state aid. To conclude, let me briefly say two sentences on family policy about grandparents' children and give the floor to the Secretary of State on labour law. The labour law pillar of the Grandparent Childcare Fee would be established as from 1 January 2020 under the proposal, the essence of which is that the Grandparent will be entitled to unpaid leave for the duration of the childcare fee, and will be protected during that period. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said above, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Krisztina Hohn applauds.]]
u2019-11-20-97	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, the other author of the item on the agenda. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Wednesday, 20 November 2019 95/2. Number Parliamentary Diary
u2019-11-20-98	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The bill before you includes amendments to a number of employment policies. These amendments aim, on the one hand, to ensure compliance with EU law and harmonisation obligations and, on the other, to ensure uniform application of law and, finally, to clarify data protection rules. The amendment of the Labour Code Act aims at establishing the labour law pillar of the Grandparent Childcare Fee. As you know, the health insurance page of the Grandparent Childcare Fee will enter into force on 1 January 2020. According to the new legislation, for the duration of the childcare fee under the law on compulsory health insurance, as we have heard, the Grandparent is entitled to unpaid leave. Under the proposal, the employee is entitled to notice protection for the duration of the childcare fee, for the first six months of this period and for the entire duration of the leave, for the purposes of entitlement to severance pay. Several legal status laws are amended in order to establish uniform rules for the provision of the Grandparent Childcare Fee. The amendment of the Labour Code Act is also aimed at promoting more flexible employment for mothers with small children. To this end, the proposal increases the age limit for the provision of compulsory part-time work from the age of 3 and 5 to the age of 4 and 6 respectively. In order to achieve a uniform application of the law, the relevant rules of several legal acts will also be amended in this case. A further amendment to the Labour Code creates additional rules for the transposition of the Posting of Workers Directive. The amendment contains provisions concerning the law governing the staff concerned, extending the mandatory provisions applicable to the place of work. In addition to the new elements on housing and care, the previous rules on remuneration are amended, and the amendment also provides for compulsory payment of the fee elements at the place of work. The rules on long-term missions and replacement missions will be introduced and the provisions laying down information obligations for workers will be added. The provisions on the study contract and the non-compete agreement are amended in accordance with the findings made by the Curia case-law analysis team. The proposal sets out a new provision on the formality of the non-compete agreement, which provides for the compulsory inclusion of the agreement in writing. The conclusion, amendment and termination of the non-compete agreement will be valid only in writing in order to facilitate evidence on the parties. The Labour Code is added in order to further comply with the Directive on certain aspects of the organisation of working time. The provision prohibiting the dismissal of a worker on grounds that he has not agreed to apply a higher number of hours per day on a regular basis is amended. The purpose of the amendment is to provide workers with protection in addition to dismissal against illegal disadvantage. In addition to the rules for the protection of the Employment Fund, the Employment Act clarifies the rules on data protection. The amendments encourage employers to involve people with disabilities in work, with the aim of increasing the level of support from 60 per cent to 75 per cent. The increase in the aid intensity will reduce the employer's burden, increase the number of people with reduced working capacity and create new jobs. Another amendment to the Employment Act provides for the possibility of establishing more favourable support rules for job-seekers with a higher education degree. In the long term, this will help to reduce the lack of work environment and boost the economy by creating new businesses. Further changes to employment will transform the labour and OSH sanctions system, taking into account building experience. In line with the economic protection action plan, the changes will help to whiten the economy and stimulate it. The application of the on-the-spot fine significantly simplifies and makes OSH procedures more effective, ensuring that fair businesses are not put at a competitive disadvantage. The increase in the amount of the OSH fine is intended to ensure that it does not unduly obtain an economic advantage without sufficient protection. In order to whiten the economy and improve competitiveness, the amendment strengthens the guarantees on labour fines in respect of undeclared employment. As a new element, if the authority has revealed an infringement of undeclared employment and the employer fails to comply with the notification requirement of the final decision, the employment authority will comply with the notification instead. In order to achieve the objective of legitimate employment, the case of compulsory fines will be extended by the fine imposed on employment under a fake contract. Dear Parliament, In the light of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support the proposal submitted by the Government during the debate. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-20-99	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-20-100	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us contains a number of amendments to a number of laws, and I would focus mainly on what is more closely linked to the family protection action plan, of course, in the end, each of them has something to do with this, one more closely, one more metaphorically, but it is not a coincidence that it was submitted at the same time. [[16.10]] Thanks to the family protection action plan, the government is already providing significant and successful support for childbearing and child rearing, and it is still the task of the government and the governing parties to give all the help and support to families, and this is possible because the Hungarian economy is performing well. Our aim is to continuously improve the situation of Hungarian families, so we consider it appropriate to amend certain laws related to the further family protection action plan and any changes that will simplify the affairs of everyday life. Of all the laws that I do not wish to list now, because this is detailed in the proposal, which concerns a number of areas, one of the important issues referred to earlier by Secretary Bodo is the amendment of the Labour Code, which allows the Grandparent Childcare Fee to be introduced from 1 January to receive appropriate labour law pillars and funds. This applies mutatis mutandis to grandparents who make use of it, touches on and settles the issue of the fact that those who leave their workplace for the duration of the childcare fee, what it is deemed to be, have been told that they will be entitled to unpaid leave, will be protected from notice, and it is also quite clear that they will be considered a period of entitlement to severance benefits, so these are important things. It is also an important and regulatory issue that if we want to introduce this in all sectors of society, then there are areas where we will have to amend two-thirds of the laws, as appropriate. After all, the law on public service officials, the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies, the law on the status of civil servants are all in this area, and it is also clear that issues that arise here and also in relation to family protection must be translated into the relevant legislation in this respect. We consider it very important what the Secretary of State has also said, so I do not want to mention this in detail, but I would just like to mention, namely, how this proposal aims to promote more flexible employment for mothers with young children, how the age limits that create incentives in this respect and the conditions that are safer for the family on the other side. In addition to improving the situation of families, while this has already been mentioned by the Secretary of State Philip, the bill also aims to strengthen the social care system. Here, it clarifies, clarifies and complements a number of legal issues and introduces new concepts and new legal categories that make care here partly more colourful, partly safer, and will partly bring in new elements, such as the naming of child protection benefits at home, which was not before, or even the suggestion of a nursing home, on which the Secretary of State also spoke in detail. I think that it is also particularly important that, from the administration side, this is obviously not so much a concern for those who are provided, but for those who work in the sector, but it is important that the administrative tasks that arise here, paper communication, will be significantly reduced, simplified, faster, and the corresponding IT systems will be put into work or service, if that is the case. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that basically all the issues covered by these quite a few laws, which are being amended here before us, are largely technical and precise in many respects, but, of course, it has also been said about the content issues that they cover, overall, they contain a desire to improve and improve families and people's everyday lives. Consequently, I am very confident that all parties in Parliament will be considered eligible. I would like to ask my fellow Members later to support them with their vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-101	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2019-11-20-102	Mr President, Dear House, To be honest, when I read the news about 2.0 or the expansion of the Family Protection Action Plan, I was absolutely optimistic about the issue; I expected that, at the first point, I would not even say that the proposals that were spoiled, but perhaps too narrow, would finally be grounded by the government, and with a much wider drawing, we would be able to favour much more people, where appropriate, with a total pro-party decision. The thing is, there are very important proposals, some parts of the proposal in front of us, and a little bit of the salad genre again. I will start with what is positive, and perhaps we can create a common basis, for example for civil servants, that, so far, part-time employment in the case of three or large families can be requested up to five years of age is now increased until the child is four or six years old. I fully support this, this is how it should be done, not now, much earlier, but I think a sane person can only support this idea and suggestion, and I can't think of a counterargument. Anyone involved in this is obviously driven by other political, self-serving or other intentions. What I do see, however, is the inclusion in this package of the amendment of the OSH Act, the Wage Guarantee Fund, and others, which may almost eliminate the possibility of a substantive debate, and for a very long time we would not be able to argue, and I assure you that, but when amending the OSH Act, for example, this proposal sets out a notification obligation for carcinogenic activity. At the Committee on Enterprise Development, my colleague Tibor Nunkovics made a concrete proposal that he had an ex-worker who had to work with a CNC milling machine, that is in his job description, but his employer does not provide adequate air and smoke disposal, so this unfortunate person has to work in this carcinogenic, corrosive material for 8-10 hours a day, and this was a proposal that would have dealt with this problem, would have helped to deal with this type of abuse of employers. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, has not come before the House thanks to Fidesz, and we are now receiving something on a fully general notification obligation that cannot be spit out or swallowed; what effect this will have on the labour market, and I do not need to share predictions about it with you. However, it is much more important to talk about the proposals that lay the foundations for the Grandparent Childcare Prize. I add that I and my faction will vote in favour of this package, but at the same time I have something to tell you. They are talking about demographic and family protection goals, and I find it impertinent to say that very wide social groups are being left out of the beneficiaries with noble simplicity, and then they wonder that all the relevant demographic data I emphasize, all of them have started to deteriorate in the last year. The Secretary of State cannot list one, or, if so, press a button and do so, which would have started to grow and progress in the past period, and this is a major disaster. I would also condemn possible opposition speeches, if there were such ones, which are gloatably happy about this, but I do not think that there is such a speech in the Hungarian Parliament; it is a national disaster that the demographic indicators stand like this. Your responsibilities are highlighted, as the cashier is always on the government side, but I can see that the Grandparent child is not going to solve this issue. I'll tell you why not. Demographically, this proposal would be appropriate if it were to give older family members a pension benefit to be able to play a substantial part in caring for children, but you do not. Once again, they campaign violently, violent rhetoric, violently narrow down the range of potential users, and, along with a chemically pure neoliberal thinking, they once again imagine that they favor the upper middle class, and that this will run down to other social groups. This has never happened anywhere in the world with regard to social transfers. Once again, you can never, ever show a functional model in this regard, because there is no, there is no. But they're bringing it to Parliament, and that's not a problem, because we're going to support it, just spare us the eulogy. We are in the same situation as we are in the case of a personal income tax allowance for mothers with four children, which I am in favour of, but what was the original Fidesz proposal about? Three children, mothers with three children. What happened next? The Government of Hungary looked at how many people could use this, so here we would go above a hundred thousand if the three children could use it! He's recoded his own earlier revealed proposal, which only applies to four children. [[16.20]] Show me mothers with four children who, say, as CEOs, are capable of producing the greatest service, with the upbringing of four children, an outstanding income, after which this sjaja-free would provide substantial help! About 15-30 thousand are the number of people who will be able to use it in some form, not after large incomes, so clearly for demographic purposes this will not be suitable either. Without wanting to draw the word or multiply it, I must say that I am not asking you for a continuous decrease in the number of live births. It would be unprofessional and incorrect if someone in the current government wanted to beat the fact that the decades of population loss have peaked in the fact that the number of live births is constantly decreasing, since the base of women of childbearing age has fallen from 1990 to almost half by 2016. Expecting this to increase the number of live births would be unprofessional, foolish, and evil. That is not the goal now; the aim would be to slow down, slow down weight loss, so I am not asking for the number of live births. The causes of death are why it is growing at this rate, and this government is able to present inexhaustible crimes in this area. And so far, we have at least reassured ourselves that the fertility rate is slow growth, even if it does not compensate for the losses of Hungarian society, but it reaps upwards. Unfortunately, this has also decreased from 1,49 to 1.44, so the government's demographic policy has bled out in terms of all the important indicators. We will therefore support these not only cosmetic characteristics, but not necessarily upward preferences, which are in front of us, but should pull themselves together, because what they are doing in the field of family policy and demography is not enough. In themselves, the amount of money collected here is clearly not allowed if they are narrowed down to a social group. We need to solve the housing crisis, the cataclysm, we need to intervene at a number of points, and we expect you to open up substantive debates on these fronts. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-11-20-103	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-20-104	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Christian Democrats consider it important to introduce a family protection action plan and consider it important to amend certain laws related to the action plan. It is important that young married couples receive baby shower support. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Loan...]] It is important that the home creation programme has been further expanded and that the grandparents' children have also been introduced. It's important that the nursery building continues. It is important to give credit for the birth of children. It is important to support car shopping for large families, and it is also important for mothers with four children to be free. Ladies and Gentlemen, The family protection action plan has already helped hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families in their everyday lives, and we would like to complement that. It is important to ensure that the workers' protection is established for those receiving grandparents from January 2020 by amending the Labour Code. The amendment creates the possibility for an active grandparents to stay at home with the child until the age of 2 and for twins until the age of 3. In the case of an average salary of the grandparents, HUF 208 thousand is a monthly grant. The conditions for the use of grandparents' children are that parents should be entitled to the child and that they agree to the use of the child care allowance by their grandparents. The proposed amendment to the Labour Code aims to create the labour law pillar of the Grandparent Childcare Fee and states that, for the duration of the childcare fee, the Grandparent is also entitled to unpaid leave. Under the proposal, the worker will also be granted notice protection during this period, and this period will also be considered as a period of entitlement to leave and severance. Ladies and Gentlemen, We use the family protection plan to tell you that raising children is a value. The biggest problem in Western Europe is that family support is treated as a taboo and only deals with how to replace the declining birth rate with migration. However, they do not ask the real question; the real question is what is the cause of the population decline; what is the reason why Europe is today a continent of empty cradles. We do not want to solve this problem with migration, but with Hungarian children, through increased and more targeted support for families raising children. This intention is reflected in the family support action plan and its current amendment. Fidesz-KDNP is on the side of Hungarian families and young people. We offer a safe future for young Hungarians and Hungarian families. We believe they are the gold reserves of our nation. If you let go of your family, you lose your future. We, on the other hand, want to win the future for Hungary's benefit. That is why we support families, which is why we support young people. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary group supports the amendment of the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-20-105	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-20-106	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Any proposals and measures that improve the situation of families can be undertaken and supported. I think there's no debate between the two sides of Parliament's horseshoe. If you are raising a child or caring for a sick child, those families, those people must be supported, and that is fine. It is necessary to allocate resources from the budget side and human resources to be professionals who carry out these work and activities. At the same time, I believe that it should be said that I do not consider these measures sufficient, either in the area of labour law or in the area of social protection or in the area of child protection. A little attached to Mr Z. Carpathian, I can say that we understand, which is a positive, we must acknowledge. However, I note that at the beginning we drew attention to a lot of things, what shortcomings the original law had, but thank God, the wallet saw that there were a lot of things to touch here, but not a complete picture of which the anomalies that existed could have been eliminated. I have a terrible sense of shortage here with regard to the wage arrangement of social workers, as this is included in this large package, where, although it provides for a proposal to be able to take into account the wage supplement when calculating the Jubilee Prize, I ask why this allowance is taken into account only in the settlement of the Jubilee Prize, not in the award of all other benefits. The resources guaranteeing the functioning of the child protection system, the IT introductions, which Mr. State Secretary spoke about, are welcome, to be supported, there is no real objection to them. In addition, there are measures concerning the provision of elderly care. I do not feel that the state is taking sufficient responsibility in caring for and caring for our elderly people who are socially deprived. Just for the record, there are nearly 30,000 people in line, because the waiting list is not only in health care, but also in social care and access to services. The number of people lining up in residential nursing homes tends to vary from 24 to 30,000. True, experts and professionals in the field also say that there are only so few, because in the meantime very many are dying and will never come to them. For example, I have a sense of absence that I would have liked to have included in this package. Here is the Constitutional Court's action on invalids. It is exactly a jubilee, my fellow Members: a year ago, the Constitutional Court adopted or adopted the resolution that it was necessary to settle the bill to eliminate the government's failure to deal with the victims. [[16.30]] The Constitutional Court granted a deadline until 31 March, and the Government has not so far submitted to the Parliament the provisions and drafts that would correct the government error. Supplement III of the year on social management and social benefits In the context of the Act, however, it is stated in the explanatory memorandum that a new type of care will provide solutions and long-term care to older people who wish to provide for their needs for care at the current or later stage of their lives by accepting service costs. You mentioned, Mr Secretary, that this will affect new entrants and not older ones. They point out that it is necessary to set the service fee in an agreement to be concluded at the time of the establishment of an institutional relationship and to specify those charges by service. Here, the proposal concerns the fact that a fee or service fee higher than twice the previous year's inflation published by the HCSO cannot be collected. I would venture, Mr State Secretary, not twice as much as the increase in the pension in January, the higher the fee or service fee should not be charged to elderly people who are resident and in need of care. Furthermore, I understand that there is such an initiative by the National Pensioner Parliament before the National Election Committee, by submitting a request for a referendum. I think that would be fair, because if there was only a 2.7 or 2.8 percent increase in pension per year, then a person in an institution would not be subject to a fee equal to twice the rate of inflation, but would only be able to increase his fee by as much as the rate of pension increase was, of course, a percentage. In addition to the above, the government is authorised to pay the amount of the salary on the basis of the Jubilee Rewards of persons employed in the daycare institution, the service provider, at the beginning, either in the introduction or in determining the allowances to be included. According to the explanatory statement, the latter is necessary because they want the consolidated social sector wage supplement to be included in the institution on which the Jubilee Prize is based. I understand that, and so far it's okay. But why is this allowance only taken into account for the reward? Dear fellow Members, I have to say a few sentences about it, and it is also attached to this package, which is the package relating to the action plan for the protection of the family; since the secretary of state has also split it up, and Mr Bodo has dealt with his labour law section rather, allow me to go here for a few sentences. Through the amendment of 12 laws, this package affects the world of work. In general, the bill will lead to the creation of a childcare fee for grandparents and the possibility of part-time employment through sectoral legislation, as well as a number of points that have a positive impact on workers; this must be recognised; however, a number of amendments that I believe are questionable. In addition to the above statement, the government increases the amount of fines that may be imposed in the event of infringements to a significant extent in the labour control and OSH laws. The current OSH fine can range from 50,000 to 10 million forints, which is now raised, from 100,000 forints to 20 million forints. Last time I checked, the fine changed in 2004 or 2005, which means it hasn't changed for nearly 15 years. Consequently, the amount of the fine alone was no longer sufficiently dissuasive in respect of infringements. We also experienced this this year when I was with my fellow Members at Hankook, where we were clearly told that even government officials who oversee the area would laugh or laugh at their faces, because there was almost no labour or labour law control, accident control when they wouldn't impose a fine on Hankook, but by circumventing the legislation they would achieve a much greater profit and profit than they would be punished. So they smile and pay the penalties, and almost everything stays the same. Furthermore, I am not going to go further with a clear positive effect on the public employment community, either, that if a person receiving a job-seeking allowance establishes an indefinite employment period of at least 4 hours a day during the payment of the allowance, the remaining allowance shall be paid in one amount only if the new employment relationship does not constitute a public employment relationship. This is Mt. It is also a self-acknowledgment statement, in my opinion. It is accompanied by a provision prohibiting the dismissal of the worker on the grounds that he has not agreed to the application of the working hours of a higher number of hours. This may also mean reducing the negative consequences for workers of the slave law. This amendment on the one-year anniversary of the Slave Act, I think, should deserve special attention. The change in the Wage Guarantee Fund has a positive impact on the employees of temporary and student cooperatives. According to the amendment, if the lender or the school association is unable to comply with the payment obligation, it will be made to the persons concerned within the fifth day of the assessment of the employer's claim to the fund. I would like to stress that the MSZP welcomes the Government's efforts to try to reduce occupational accidents on labour and OSH inspections in the interests of workers every year, and I would like to stress that I can welcome this to the farthest possible extent, but it is not clear why it is still giving employers another loophole to escape checks. Thank you very much for your kind attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2019-11-20-107	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-11-20-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My fellow Members have already said in many respects my opinion on the amendment of the legislation, and I would therefore just like to say a few basic points. An action plan for family protection can be effective when there is trust in people, families, and what I see is that trust has vanished. And I think that not only because there was an election result on 13 October, which reflects the growing dissatisfaction in many aspects of the country, but there have been a lot of measures and a lot of events in recent times in Hungarian family policy that have not strengthened or fed this trust. I'll give you an example: when, in one day, the legislation abolished the institution of house savings, thousands, tens of thousands of families realized that they were raising money unnecessarily when, with one amendment, imported in one day, the whole thing could be abolished as it is. It also did not strengthen confidence when they read that, say, the infant care department of the Honvéd Hospital is closing because there are not enough doctors in it, there are not enough nurses. It doesn't increase confidence in your family policy. Nor has it increased confidence in family policy when you launch a kindergarten and kindergarten program, and it turns out that you cannot do this and that many children do not get into these institutions. And then I didn't even mention the various branches of this, the anomalies in the education system, the public education system or even higher education. So I think that we should talk about a family protection action plan when this is not supported by demographic data either, when half of the high school students surveyed plan to leave this country when every sixth Hungarian child is born abroad, when hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are willing to work abroad rather than to work in Hungary, this is not family protection, but the breakdown of families. [[16.40]] There are so many parents, grandparents crying that the child simply takes the bag, leaves for the airport and may never come back in the stinking life again. I think it's really bad, it's bad for this nation. Finally, I would like to add that there is another aspect on the issue of elderly care that I can add to my fellow Member, Mr Korózs. There are many aspects when an elderly person is admitted to a nursing home, which refers to his health and spiritual condition. These would also be worth reviewing, because in many cases, this point system is an example, and 40 points should be reached on such a list of criteria, so that a lot of elderly people, if they enter real data in these boxes, will never reach a certain score to get into that nursing home. So it's like it's a preliminary criterion or a filter, or it's an obstacle on purpose because there's not enough elderly home space, unfortunately, so that even the needy may be excluded from this care. I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that, in addition to the need to increase the number of elderly care in terms of their seats, this system of considerations should also be examined. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-109	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Krisztina Hohn, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-11-20-110	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have a salad law before us, but for once this salad is a little more digestible, fresher, fresher, if I may live with such a strange analogy. We support all laws that are born to protect families and that help families to thrive. If I count correctly, 18 laws are amended by this salad law. My fellow Members have said a lot of things before me, so I will not repeat them, but I am very pleased that an IT system for the protection of our children for the sake of a single register will be created, if I have read it correctly, which I hope will also be adequate to protect against external intrusions, so we really will keep the data confidential, which should be kept confidential. I think it is very important that all child protection incidents in child protection are seen in one unit by the child protection professional, since moving and any other obstacles prevent him from getting a full picture of the child. I consider the flexible employment of mothers with small children to be very beneficial and good, as many people suffer from the fact that the child goes to kindergarten and is sick every two weeks afterwards, which the employer does not tolerate very much. I do not want to go into details right now, but the point is that it will help mothers work much more flexibly. I like your grandparents' lawn. For example, I couldn't be here if I didn't have a mother. I'm just saying, my son is a little bigger, but he's still in school, and my mother can really, really help. He's retired, so we haven't used his grandparents' lawn before, but it's probably good for those who can handle it that way. I would also like to say that we will certainly support this law, and I would like to see more laws that help more families. For example, you could also consider raising the family allowance, and then adoption, which is my favorite topic, is to make it easier for me, to shorten the subject so that little children do not stay in the system for up to 10 to 18 years. And there are a lot of laws and regulations that could help. Although this does not represent an excessive demographic explosion at the moment, we hope that it will be felt later. That's all I wanted to say, and thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-111	Thank you, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has now applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-112	Mr President, Dear House, Since we can see that there will be no serious debate, since there is no government intention to do so, with regard to the closing that is very close, I would like to take a specific question. What are you secretary of state expecting, as regards grandparents, how can the number of users develop? My question is particularly topical because the average age when a woman becomes a mother has been delayed by more than five years since the change of method, so when she typically takes on her first child. If we are talking about grandparents in respect of Gyed, it is appropriate to multiply these at least five years by two, and we also have to add that this benefit is obviously not available with a pension. I would say that we should come up with a formula where we can support our elderly compatriots with a pension in order to take part in child care, although the term "for" is a bit of a reverse in this context, as everyone is very selflessly willing to do so. But if the Government of Hungary wants to motivate you, do so in addition to pensions, as you can see that very few people will want to give up their last few years before retirement in exchange for a child. From the perspective of future pension calculation, these are the most important years, and a real family crisis and family drama are needed to enable someone to give up or give up these very important years, their last years of work before retirement. How many of our compatriots do you think will be open to this, and what do you expect, given the sound campaign promise, how many of you will be able to get substantial help with this formula, with this opportunity? Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-20-113	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for a normal speech.
u2019-11-20-114	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as Members before me have already explained, there are a number of elements of this initiative that are worthy of support, it is always right and good that the current government takes steps to help Hungarian families, children or even young people from a long time ago. I would like to encourage the government and the ruling party to move forward. My fellow Member, Mr Krisztina Hohn, said that there are other ideas and suggestions that should be included in such a package of proposals. In recent days, a good fellow Member has had a good proposal, namely that of Mr Lajos Rig, who has initiated the possibility for children with rare diseases to receive more organized support than the need to fund certain very expensive treatments through social donations. He has formulated his proposal specifically for a special group of diseases, but unfortunately there are many other very rare diseases that, indeed, cause a huge problem and problems for children and families, because the cure is extremely expensive and cannot be treated within the system. That is why his proposal was designed to create a fund in which the tax subsidy of up to 1 percent could be offered, and the state should also put it in this fund, and from this it would systematically finance the regrettable needs of such families. You voted against this initiative last time, but I urge you to consider it. If we are talking about family protection, a family protection action plan, I think it would be a useful and good new action point in this regard, so that children with rare diseases do not have to die from the disease, but they can receive the medicine, the treatment that prolongs their lives, thus bringing happiness to their family and Hungary as a whole. My other suggestion would be that if we were talking about family protection, I think you should follow the example of the Fidesz government in Budafoki, where evictions were stopped. I would suggest that this should be another point in the family protection action plan, which is to suspend eviction among large family members or family members. [[16.50]] In English, where a child lives, they are not evicted, but seek alternative methods to deal with problems. So it would be worthwhile to suspend evictions in this regard. I have a third, a little more general comment and a suggestion. In many Hungarian families, the life situation has developed with one parent raising the child or children, and these families are exponentially exposed to various challenges and existential difficulties. What I miss about this action plan is that we are not giving any more help to these so-called stumped families, where for some reason either the father or the mother raises one, two or even three children. This often poses an almost unsolvable challenge for a given parent. There is always some way out of thinking to help a parent and a family raising their children alone, and somehow the government is always focused on helping and supporting people and families living in so-called traditional family models, while if you live in such a broken family, you will surely face a lot more problems. So I would encourage you to think together in this regard about what additional assistance you could give these families. And my fourth proposal is about orphan children, because those who grow up without parents start their lives with amazing difficulties. Therefore, it would also be a more general idea and a suggestion on my part that it would be worth considering how to simplify the idea of a greater start-up for orphan children by simplifying the idea a little, helping them from the acquisition of the apartment to the founding of a family to education so that they can get as much help as possible, equipped with more tools that, even if they can't replace it, alleviate the fact that they had to spend their childhood without parents. I would like to put these proposals to your attention. I think that if the government drafts new initiatives in these areas, we will be happy to support them. And as I have listened to the comments of my fellow Members, I think that they will support all such initiatives with the same enthusiasm in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-20-115	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a two-minute time frame.
u2019-11-20-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to correct Attila Mesterházy's speech that Lajos Rig's proposal yesterday was not only about patients with SMA, because he only brought them up as examples, but also wants to help all those suffering from rare diseases. I believe that during the last nine years of yesterday, since I have been a Member of Parliament, I may have been able to take the most shameful vote that you have thrown these people away. If we're talking about family protection, if there's a serious patient in a family, it's enough for that family to have a sick person in their family, and they want to do everything they can to get better, and if it's children, more so. This proposal yesterday was about establishing a financial fund where people suffering from rare diseases, who also have very serious financial problems, can benefit from it in order to cure their illness. You know how much social cooperation has been in relation to SMA patients. People put their hands in their own pockets so that these children could be cured. You shouldn't have put your hands in your own pockets, because as government representatives, you could have helped create such a fund, and in the future, citizens shouldn't have paid this child with their own money to cure these serious patients. And you voted against this bill and voted against this amendment. You threw these patients away yesterday. I think it was a shame yesterday, and I ask you to know that you do not like the opposition to make any suggestions that, if your conscience has spoken since yesterday, you should present the same legislative amendment proposal, and I promise you that we will vote for it. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-20-117	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes.
u2019-11-20-118	Thank you very much. Mr President, My apologies, I did say it inexactly. The reason for this was that in my mind it was what was one of my arguments during the debate, when I also supported my fellow Member's proposal. This argument was that the fate of these patients should not depend on the good cheer of Lőrinc Mészáros and the NER riders, so that the solution should not be that Lőrinc Mészáros would like to transfer 100 or 200 million or others, but that there should be a possibility of a systematic assistance. I think that it would be much better, and indeed safer, and that everyone would be pleased if this type of social cooperation were to take place in a canalised manner. That was indeed what my better fellow Member, Lajos Rig's proposal was about. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-119	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodo.
u2019-11-20-120	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! First of all, I thank the factions and the speakers for their strong and professional opinions. I think that this package of laws certainly deserves the attention that you have just received here. Allow me to respond to concrete comments by Members. Congressman Pósán perfectly summarized the essence of employment laws, because the clear aim here was to create safer employment. The labour market is a constantly changing world, perhaps never a fixed point, and obviously all challenges need to be addressed. There may be emergencies that were not known a year or two or three or five years ago, substances the chemical properties of which were not known two to three or five years ago. So there's a continuous follow-up here. And most importantly, this period should be as short as possible, so we should have a basic knowledge of the emergence of substances with unknown content, but the response to them should be as rapid as possible. So we must be ready for these challenges on a daily basis. In fact, I can also promise that Parliament will continue to negotiate such laws in the next period. Thank you very much for your special attention to mothers with small children. It is quite clear that the government does not just want to support them at legislative level. I would like you to be aware, please, that, for example, that a support programme is also known, based on which in settlements where there is no nursery or nursery space, we can provide financial support to parents, obviously mostly mothers with small children, who undertake to return to the labour market after the child is two years old. There is such a request, there is such a demand, perhaps a number of registered persons exceeding a thousand, who say that if they can use the state to finance their children in a good place, say, a foundation nursery, then they will return to the labour market, because on the basis of some decision it is more favourable to them, and I think they have the opportunity from now on to be able to move professionally, knowing their children, too, in a good place, that is to say by no means fall behind. Of course, as I mentioned, this is just an opportunity, but in the current labour market situation, all such offers are taken seriously by future workers. I would like to thank Mr Z. Kárpát for his assessment of the material submitted as important proposals, and thank you for this support on behalf of parents and large families. What is included in the legislative harmonisation comment on the submission of Mr Nunkovich, I can answer that it is still a regulated issue in relation to carcinogenicity notifications, which is contained in a ministerial regulation, and that, in order to strengthen data protection, this regulation goes from the level of regulation to the level of law. And with your permission, perhaps I'd like to discuss this in a little bit more detail. According to Hungary's Fundamental Law, everyone has the right to physical and mental health, and they impose obligations on all employers. Therefore, the harmonisation of the EU OSH directives, as well as the revision and, if necessary, amendment of the Hungarian legislation affecting them, is ongoing. I also pointed out in the previous sentences that this is not a once and for all task, which will certainly continue to come before Parliament in the next period. What level of legislation we need to regulate this can obviously be a professional issue. Of course, it may occasionally be a law and give it greater torque. [[17.00]] But, as I said, since we need to provide a rapid response to relatively rapid changes, legislation at a lower level can be interpreted, useful and justified. So thank you very much for the support of the Jobbik fraction, which was understandable to me in relation to the employment laws. Congressman Vejkey called the welfare of families the most important message of the law. That's true. A family, a family member, can obviously be happy if their loved ones are safe from occupational safety rules. And it's quite clear that if you can work under proper working conditions, pay for the right pay, in healthy conditions, then family harmony is quite different at home. Mr Korózs also spoke for the disabled, and I think he did the right thing in any case. That's why it's a social class I don't think was properly treated at his age. In this situation, I can also provide you with information on a sample programme that is about how we would like to apply them under the rules of the competition sphere. This is not a late future, these programmes will definitely start in some counties in East or North Hungary at the beginning of next year. We'll see what the reception looks like. By the way, there is a well-trained methodology in Western Europe. There are plenty of jobs that they can do. But here, of course, we must ensure the conditions that are absolutely essential for work. Here, on the subject of the public workers, there was an observation from the Member. Well, the legislator's intention is quite clear: to reward those who choose to return to the primary labour market. So if someone is a public worker and then something happens to him and then becomes a public worker again, it is certainly not a return to the primary labour market, it cannot be a lasting and lasting goal. However, it must in any case develop an approach that leads from public employment to the competition sector. At that particular company you mentioned, he had further concerns about labour inspections. Well, I think, in the interests of the honor of my colleagues, I must say that 58 inspections have been carried out in the last nine years, 192 irregularities have been detected by my colleagues in 128 decisions, and in 8 cases more than HUF 10 million has been fined. The labour authority also carried out 10 labour inspections and found deficiencies in 4 cases. So obviously my colleagues are doing their job. By the way, the Chambers are our good partners in the field of inspections, and I can safely say that professional organisations that really require that these checks be taken seriously because of fair competition. As you have said, the fine here has almost put the inspectors in a frivolous position, to put it mildly. I also thought from the words of my fellow Members, Zsolt Gréczy, that he supported the legislative package. Thank you very much. Krisztina Hohn: flexible employment of mothers with small children. I might have thought we were at an event this morning, but we weren't. Today we were in Tata's consultation with entrepreneurs at a meeting, where, by the way, very important employers said that the employment of mothers with small children is also a mission for them. Obviously, it is a mission, for it is a human being, so that we can help these parents. It's practical, because they're hard-working, disciplined ladies, so they're doing their job. What was certainly a very important professional observation and suggestion from several colleagues, CEOs, is that they are now making up the working method of how and how they can be employed: maternity shifts, subsequent work starts, employment in couples, that someone 4 hours, someone else 4 hours, and thus lasts 8 hours a day, for example, in a job. These are all proposals written by life. We, I think, as public figures, have a very important task of hearing these life experiences, and also at the legal level, or at the level where they should be, to incorporate them into our work. The question of the interest in the grandparents' children was very serious. Congressman, I can't give you any figures yet, but I promise you, as soon as the first data is available, I can send it to you. But I fully understand that it is worthwhile and reliable that when we participate in these corporate forums, there is hardly a time when this issue is not said. Obviously now, the conditions are still essentially related to the comments on how, how, from when. After the adoption of the law, however, much will be clarified, and I think that there will be concrete figures in the foreseeable future. Thank you once again for the support proposals, the constructive criticisms, and I think that this bill is certainly worthy of the unanimous support of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-20-121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will conclude the general debate and ask the other rapporteur, Attila Philip, if he would like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-20-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank all the Members who have spoken. In particular, I would like to thank you for the constructive contributions and for the tone that I think the social law, the underlying life situations require, whether in a social area or in a child protection area. I think I've had some useful thoughts. I would like to respond briefly to three issues, one of which was raised in the context of older care. Here, I would like to add to what has been said, that this amendment represents the integration of an additional service option into the system, for our fellow countrymen who wish to use nursing home care without the need for care. Today, about 60,000 people use residential nursing home care, but more and more demands arise where they want to use it without the need for care. Here, of course, the professional rules apply, they must be respected, but, among other things, no income will have to be examined and there will be no remuneration rules applicable in these institutions. The question of child protection came up on behalf of Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn and Mr Attila Mesterházy. One thing I would like to point out is that there is still a help for these children today that when they reach age and get out of the system at 18 years of age or after post-care, they should receive special support for housing. But we think it is much more important that we have started, as far as possible, to focus on raising in the family with foster care networks rather than institutional supervision. If we cannot strengthen trust through their traumas and foster confidence through family upbringing, then at 18-23, they will not be able to use the money they receive to start a life. So we think this kind of community bond is just as important. This is why a cooperation has started in the days, where important Hungarian catering and gastronomic companies will try to employ those children to learn the responsible lifestyle as much as possible. Finally, employment of people with disabilities was mentioned. Here, too, I would like to highlight what Mr Bodo, in part, has said that we currently have about 150,000 of our countrymen who have changed their ability to work, but who have a job. This means that about 42 percent of the target group is working today, which did not reach 18 percent in 2011. So there's progress here, but there's room for it to develop further. This is where we want as many market companies as possible to be partners. [[17.10]] This is why, at the beginning of this year, it was introduced that a company is exempt from contributions up to twice the minimum wage for all employees with disabilities. We would like to make as many alliances as possible, because the government alone will be able to help if market companies believe that they can and can hire people with disabilities. Thank you again for your comments and your supportive attitude. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-20-123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by Members Lajos Szűcs, Sándor Font and Zsolt Nyitrai T/8036. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Lajos Szűcs, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-11-20-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Secretary of State. Dear fellow Members, This is a short bill based on what the 2013 CII is building. We've known you since the law was applied. Last year, the Hungarian National Fishing Association received an opportunity to provide a public service, and this bill clarifies how the fishing association can manage the fishing data, based on what points. It would be very simple to say that we complied with all the laws in the previous period. Of course, this bill has been drawn up in a manner that takes account of the interim changes in GDPR rules, and we have tabled this proposal in opposition to NAIH. It is about the fact that last year we launched a fishing card to renew the document system for fishermen. In order to update this document, this document renewal requires the use of these data, which is authorised by this bill. So I ask this House to discuss the bill and to accept it as far as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-125	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask Sándor Farkas if he'd like to speak to him. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] Secretary of State says yes. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-126	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/8036 in front of you. Proposal for a Law on fish management and the protection of fish CII of 2013 contains an amendment to the Act. The Law which entered into force on 1 September 2013 was a conceptual change by putting the natural resources and the protection of fish stocks that could be renewed in the first place, and by giving priority to fishing as a recreational activity. This was also confirmed by the amendments of the Act in 2015, which were generally supported by the National Assembly, which resulted in the cessation of the issue of commercial fishing permits and the possibility of settling the exploitation of the right to fish management in the Hungarian state, so that the right to fish management of certain registered fish management waters could be transferred directly to the Hungarian National Fishing Association with a lease agreement, even without a tender. Further fine-tuning of the law and its related implementing regulations was intended to serve as much as possible the needs of the fishing community, which is now over half a million. This bill is part of this process, and the need for this amendment is primarily justified by maintaining established good practice, thus completing the basic concept of the law in line with the needs of professional and advocacy organisations. 1064/2018 on the national management and fishing strategy for fisheries and on the tasks necessary for the implementation of the national fishing network programme The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish was amended in December 2018 in order to implement Government Resolution No. Law and its implementing regulation. As a result, the Hungarian National Fishing Association receives the revenues of state fish management fees directly from this year, and uses it to carry out public tasks. These public tasks include public documents for catching fish, i.e. public fishing tickets, state fishing tickets and associated catch logbooks, which require the registration of persons entitled to replace those documents in an efficient and orderly manner. The law refers to the provision of fishing records, registration and the issue of a Hungarian fishing card certifying the membership of the fishing association as a public task to be performed by the Hungarian National Fishing Association. In addition, the law's implementing regulation clarifies that the fishing association is responsible for keeping the register of fishermen and recreational fishermen and for registering them. Since the previous register was burdened with a number of errors and overlaps, it was necessary to establish a new, fully reliable register. In order to ensure the required data quality records, the Hungarian National Fishing Association launched the fishing registration at the end of 2018. Based on the experience of a year since then, it can be concluded that the system is working well and that it has been able to establish a register free of overlaps and errors. The competent data protection authority indicated this year that the legal background in force does not fully address the processing of the Hungarian National Fishing Association, so it became necessary to complete the legal basis for the legal application of the best practice. Accordingly, the bill specifies what data is handled by the Hungarian National Fishing Association during the provision of fishing records and recreational fishing records and the issue of the Hungarian fishing card certifying registration in the course of its statutory public tasks. The management of the data of registered persons contained in the proposal is essential for the legitimate issue of state documents for catching fish and for the imposition of periodic sanctions against them. To this end, it is essential that the persons concerned are registered with an individual identification and that one person can only be entered in the register once. The right to replace the fishing documents is justified only on the basis of such background, which is essential for the Hungarian National Fishing Association and its authorised member organisations to ensure the issue of fishing documents. Dear Parliament, T/8036 submitted on 22 November. The bill contains certain additions, but the draft law is short, which, in line with the original concept of the law, serve to ensure recreational activity, the possibility of fishing. The agricultural wallet responsible for fish management is essential to maintain a well-functioning registration system established by the Hungarian National Fishing Association, which performs public tasks in order to ensure full legality. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill on the grounds stated and then adopt it afterwards. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-127	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Sándor Fazekas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-20-128	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish in front of you. T/8036. Bill No.1, as stated by my fellow Member and State Secretary, states in essence what data is justified by the Hungarian National Fishing Association and which it is necessary to manage in the performance of its public tasks. As we know, the Hungarian National Fishing Association established the system of fishing registration launched at the end of 2018 on the basis of the practical principle of the tax identification of natural persons. [[17.20]] Each natural person has a tax identifier, and this number remains unchanged, does not expire, does not change as identification numbers for identity cards. Prior to the establishment and implementation of the scheme, Mohos concluded, in consultation with experts and specialists, that this solution could be legally feasible. The registration's started, it's working. A clear and transparent record of its operation has been drawn up. Following this, we received comments from the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, according to which the legal basis for the lawful application of data processing is incomplete, and therefore the legislative background is now being fully resolved accordingly. In the future, Mohos will manage the natural identity, address, delivery address, telephone and electronic contact details of anglers for the issue of data management practices, fishing cards; the latter two will only be managed by the registered consent. The identification based on the tax identification mark will therefore cease. Knowing the content of the bill, we can safely say that the amendments help to provide a more efficient public service and are intended to promote useful and meaningful experience. So please support the T/8036 in front of you. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-20-129	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Adam Steinmetz, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-20-130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. The experience gained during the period since the entry into force of law has made it timely to supplement the law in the current T/8036. The general justification for the amendment proposal before us. But it could also be said that this amendment clarifies the data management practice of the Hungarian National Fishing Association, and dissolves the current illegal status, that Mohosz, led by Lajos Szűcs, has illegally requested and processed the personal data of the members so far. Thank you, Mr President, for wanting to change this practice and for submitting this proposal. I now turn to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Sándor Farkas, and to former Minister Sándor Fazekas, and I would like to ask you on this way to reimburse the 200 families of fishermen who have lost their livelihoods and their jobs by the entry into force of the law, in accordance with their earlier promises. We also hope that in the future, substantial resources will be allocated to the development of domestic fishing tourism, such as the development and development of fishing sites on the shore of Lake Balaton. Due to the installation, not only the beachers, but the 80,000 fishermen who issued the ticket will not be able to approach the beach, who would like to catch a Balaton fish. And speaking of Balaton fish! I am pleased that István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, has withdrawn from his previous position, which came out of his answer to a previous question, namely, that anyone who wishes to eat fish from Balaton should take it for himself. Since then, Minister, we have been informed, and I quote, that there is a legitimate expectation on the part of the people who live there, on the part of the holidaymakers, to eat fish with a Balaton brand and now pay attention. And to really be a Balaton, that must have solved it from next year. After all of this, I would like to ask you to create the quality of the mark by the beginning of the season at the latest, so that only the fish caught from Lake Balaton can receive it. I hope that you will not only listen to what I have just said, but that you will do something about it. And I'm going to ask for the support of the bill before us from the Jobbik faction. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-20-131	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-20-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'm gonna start at the other end, so I'm gonna let you know that the proposal is obviously eligible. It is a proposal that settles an already established situation that is not really legal. The question is obviously why this situation could not have been legitimate in the first place and why this issue was not dealt with in advance. This question is clearly worth putting on the table in addition to saying that it supports the proposal. An observation, perhaps, in terms of lifelikeness. Here the changes, changes in the data must be reported within 30 days, notified to the association as proposed. I think it is very questionable how this will be maintained in life, in practice by fishermen, or it would not be more realistic to deal with this issue when issuing annual documents. I would like to highlight one more question; I think that the rest may have been highlighted by my fellow Member Adam Steinmetz from the opposition aspect. The question is that, obviously, in the current situation, what is the solution and how appropriate the solution is, perhaps it is worth consulting the Data Protection Ombudsman: has such consultation taken place? [[Sándor Wolf nodds.]] The answer is a big nod, it calms me down here for the first time. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-11-20-133	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy in two minutes.
u2019-11-20-134	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to one sentence of the Secretary of State. He said that the data processing was not legal, but that the database was very well operated. If something is not legal, then, Mr State Secretary, it cannot be operated and maintained well; if we are talking about data. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-135	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas in a normal time frame.
u2019-11-20-136	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I feel addressed and I would like to reflect, in particular, on the fact that there is legality or lawlessness or comment, and the rest, these are separate categories, which help to address various interpretation issues. So I would like to read once again that the Hungarian National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information was in dispute about the legal application of data processing; it was written that it was incomplete, and therefore the legislative framework is now being fully resolved accordingly. This is not the same as the opinion of the Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority if something is illegal or irregular, but, as I have quoted, it is the opinion of the Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, and I think that a government, a wallet, is doing the right thing if it tries to comply with all the rules as far as possible. We are well aware that information and data processing legislation is not a simple piece of legislation. In this case, too, we are talking about alignment with specific standards. So I think it's important to use the right concepts for the right situations. The other one, which Mr Steinmetz raised, and I agree with that, is very useful, although it is not a specific part of the agenda at first sight, the compensation or compensation for some 200 injured fishermen; this can obviously be considered as compensation. I would like to say that, during my term of office, specific claims supported by detailed data did not come into the wallet. And obviously, only in the light of such a specific claim, supported by detailed data, can any public body take a decision. The fact that there was such a signal later on from the parties involved is obviously something the Secretary of State, the Deputy Minister, who is present on the part of the wallet, can say; therefore, I have no information as to how such a detailed claim would have come. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State says you don't know anything about it. As we have to note, while commercial fishing has ceased in natural waters, those who have been in these areas have been given the opportunity to pursue their previous occupation in other waters not subject to legal restrictions, to the best of my knowledge. But I agree that it is useful that this has come up. Obviously, this needs to be taken into account, so I am sure that if a specific claim is received in front of the government or the professional wallet, this will be dealt with at an appropriate level. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-20-137	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor on behalf of the author to Congressman Lajos Szűcs. [[17 .30]]
u2019-11-20-138	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am standing here before you now, but behind me there are 562,000 fishermen whose interests I am trying to represent, and I would just like to read to you here last December a NAV communication: Since 2019 the scope of matters to be dealt with with with a tax pass will be extended, for example, to replace next year's fishing card the NAV has written a document confirming the tax identification mark, not I, the NAV wrote this, this communication can be traced back. It was indeed a matter of negotiating and continuing with the Data Protection Authority, and it is not primarily about us handling or handling data illegally, but about when, how and how the data needed to identify the person can be retained. Ladies and gentlemen, If any of you want to buy a washing machine, a mobile phone on credit, or an application, they will take your personal information without thinking about it, copy your ID card, address card and your tax card. We will be the first organisation to be able to handle this data on the basis of a legal mandate that no one can then have a question about whether or not we are legally processing this data. Here's that fishing card. [[He's showing it to me.]] on the basis of which Article 21 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies Any authorised person in a water area can control fishermen with data equivalent to the 100th century, and no one can escape from the moment that he is or is not the person he is. There are 562,000 of our fishermen, and in the increase from 280 thousand to 562,000, there was exactly a purification and cleaning process to prevent a person from getting more fishing permits in a year, or having more catch records to stop the robbery that was on the shores of the waters. Thank you, Minister, for telling me what happened with the fishermen. I can tell you that we have a database on which we have actually contacted all the fishermen who dealt with it, 130 people we have found and contacted. We have provided jobs for all of them, because the people who really want to work, we have hired eight of the 130 people, they are still doing recreational fishing and they are fishing for stock control at our place. The others, as the Minister said, were always revolvers of the Ministry with real claims for compensation or compensation, and never provided specific data when we asked them, for example, how many instruments they had in the past period, which should be compensated for, they never told us what actual number they were talking about. The question of Balaton fish has always come up as a hoax in recent years. One thing is certain, ladies and gentlemen, that Lake Balaton is not a refrigerator or a pool that can be opened every day and that fish can be bought from it to feed restaurants. Just last week, there was a trial where we tried to raise the most important questions. The most exciting question is that the fish raised and produced in the water catchment area of Lake Balaton shares the fate of Lake Balaton, because if so, the high-quality Hungarian fish raised in the lake farms can receive the trademark said by Congressman Steinmetz and those fish can be consumed in restaurants. To do so, however, it is necessary to have a closed line of accounts from the producer to the restaurant to the user, where no one, but no one, can be uncertain that the origin of that fish is different from what they say. In this, I think we still have work to do, and everyone who wants to help us in this is very welcome, of course, not part of this bill. Thank you all for speaking on the bill, and I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Adam Steinmetz applauds.]]
u2019-11-20-139	Thank you, Congressman. The amendments may be submitted by 16 a.m. on Thursday. A general debate on the draft law on amending and repealing provisions relating to the entry into force of the Law on Vocational Education and Training of 2019 is now taking place until closure. The government referral is T/8014. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2019-11-20-140	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, About two weeks ago, Parliament began to negotiate a bill aimed at new foundations for the VET system, in which it is dynamic, varied, and I think that there has been a high-quality debate, and yesterday, following this wonderful debate, the Honourable Parliament adopted the VET Act. With the overall objectives of the proposal, I think that everyone has been able to identify, but there have, of course, been differences between us in terms of the chosen directions for achieving the objectives. During the debate, it was said in several comments that the proposed changes could affect a much wider area of the regulatory system than that covered by the bill. Indeed, the draft law on vocational training meant a major conceptual, legal, organisational change that makes it essential to adapt the legislative environment to a large scale. Therefore, while preparing the law establishing the transformation of vocational training, the preparation of this package of laws was also prepared in parallel. At the same time, we considered it appropriate to separate the two legislative proposals in order to ensure that the direct and secondary regulatory changes associated with the renewal of the vocational training system can be addressed as far as possible separately. Dear Parliament, The change in the system of vocational education and training is widely affected by further legislative amendments, and therefore the bill before you contains 80 amendments to the law. Their primary objective is to harmonise the legal system with the new vocational training law and to create related legislative amendments that will facilitate and ensure the effective functioning and full use of the adapted vocational training and adult education system. The amendments include a significant number of amendments, about 60 laws, and the transfer of new VET concepts and names, which are distinct from the system of public education, representing an independent branch within the education system, can be considered as technical amendments. Of these, I would like to highlight the following. The bill clarifies the role of the Minister for Vocational Training in the core part of the National Employment Fund, which is the basic source of funding for vocational education and training, in line with the reform of the regulatory system for vocational training. The new system of vocational training will change the system of scholarships, allowances and grants for pupils and trainees. In view of this, the bill also includes an amendment to the scope of the tax exemptions set out in relation to certain student activities in the field of vocational training. Accordingly, the grant paid in respect of personal income tax under the VET Act, the one-off start-up allowance, the grant granted by tender in the light of the situation in need and the good learning outcomes, and the salary paid to the person in the dual training centre and other cash and non-cash benefits not exceeding the minimum wage will be exempt. [[17.40]] The change in the structure of dual training in vocational training and employment is also accompanied by a vocational training contract instead of a training contract, which establishes a social contribution tax exemption for cash and non-cash benefits paid to pupils participating in vocational education. Remaining in dual training, a next amendment ensures that the training period during the vocational training contract is included in the service period. Dear Parliament, Under the proposal, by amending the Family Support Act, the right to a family allowance will be extended to students in a vocational training system that departs from the public education system. Renewable vocational training also affects the system of public education. The draft re-regulates the system of public education tasks and institutions in connection with the development of the vocational training system, creating a new legal background for the functioning of art schools and the acquisition of artistic qualifications. The rules on vocational training activities of vocational schools are amended and the legal background for the 8th grade student is implemented for a competence study to help choose the appropriate secondary education course. The bill also simplifies the regulation on alternative public education institutions. At present, the Minister publishes each alternative framework plan, and the Government Office grants a permit to operate after a complex procedure. It will be easier in the future. The Ministry of Human Resources will carry out authorisation under a procedure, and the Minister's scope for granting individual solutions will be increased, because the complex rules that currently apply to the various experimental schools together will be deregulated from the law, and around which there have been a number of debates during the legislation of the last few years when the rules on public education have been constantly brought into line with them. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The development of a new vocational training system and the changing training needs and expectations of companies also have a decisive impact on the system of adult education. It is therefore necessary to harmonise and amend the Adult Education Act within the framework of the bill. A new element that strengthens the system of adult training is that in the case of professional training based on programme requirements, qualified qualifications can be obtained in accredited examination centres. The range of adult training activities will be extended to all education and training aimed at the development and development of competence and organised. Under the proposal, adult training activities will be carried out in the future on the basis of a notification or authorisation. An authorisation shall be granted for adult training activities for which an examination may be carried out and where all or part of education or training is organised from budgetary support or from European Union resources. In the course of adult training on the basis of a licence, more stringent operational requirements such as those in force must be met. Compared to this, only a few easy-to-achievable rules will have to be applied in the case of adult training activities subject to notification. This new structure will be adapted to a more flexible system of supervision of adult trainers compared to the current one, as well as to a uniform system of adult training experts. Experts complying with the new set of criteria can also carry out more complex activities in a wider field than before. In the context of adult training aid, I would like to point out that there is an increase in the scope of state aid for adult education. It will be possible to continue adult training under the new legislation from 1 July 2020, but under the old rules, adult trainers will still have the right to pursue adult training on the basis of their previous existing licences until 31 December 2022. These deadlines provide an appropriate preparation for changes and a flexible transition and ensure the completion and completion of ongoing and state-supported training. Recording systems for recording, transmitting, processing and assisting information are essential elements of today's modern education systems. With this in mind, the bill also integrates it into the Education Register Act and defines the information system for vocational training, the reporting system for adult education and the track tracking system as a separate professional system, setting out their reporting rules and the scope of the personal data of the new professional systems. Dear Parliament, The details highlighted in the bill before you confirm that the renewal of the vocational training system, the modernisation of the elements of adult education, is the result of a well-thought-out, wide-ranging professional process with a maximum focus on the challenges of the age. The new VET and adult education frameworks provide a strong and stable legal background for all training stakeholders and stakeholders to make good use of them. Curiosity, desire for knowledge is at the same time as man, and we have an important task, organizing this need, ensuring that knowledge is acquired within a regulated framework as widely as possible. With the adoption of the bill, it will be possible to say by means of a reinforced, high-quality system of vocational training and adult education that we have made significant progress in this area as well. To that end, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-20-141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Winner Vinnai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-20-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us, which deals with amending and repealing provisions relating to the entry into force of the VET Act, is very important, concerns some 80 laws, as Mr. State Secretary said in his exposé, and wants to give a stable legal background to the new VET Act. As is known, in the spring, the government adopted the VET 4.0 strategy, which is a medium-term policy strategy for the renewal of vocational training and adult education. Then, this autumn, the VET Act was submitted on 29 October, and the general debate was held in Parliament two weeks ago. In the debate, we said that the strategy was prepared along a well-thought-out approach, which, in my view, has brought about profound and positive changes in vocational training. If I were to highlight key concepts, we could talk about demand-driven education, a law that takes into account economic and labour market needs and a practice-oriented training. It is no coincidence that yesterday, I would like to call on Parliament with 119 yeses, 15 abstentions... that they were also in the opposition benches, who talked about the concept and profound change in the general legislative debate, so I think that this is the path to start, so 15 people thought they were abstaining, so they didn't press no. The present proposal, which was tabled on 12 November, is part of the VET Act and yet is discussed separately, because, as I said, it concerns some 80 laws that need to be amended or certain parts should be repealed. The negotiations were made between the wallets. But you have to ask why it had to be submitted separately. In my opinion, because the VET Act represents such a significant conceptual, legal and organisational change that it is necessary to adapt the legislative environment, and even, as Mr State Secretary said, to establish a stable legislative environment, which also defines content issues. [[17.50]] We believe that it is possible to better explore, individually, in the direct and subpoena of the renewal of the vocational training system, secondary regulatory changes, and to examine the broad scope of legislation ensuring the harmonious alignment of the new vocational training system. Allow me to point out to this House, the Members of this House, why it is necessary to adopt this bill. Create a separate vocational training regulatory and institutional system with new tasks and powers that depart from a single system of public education. Then: the division of central management tasks and responsibilities between the government and the government responsible for the sector has clear links. Then: in addition to the student status, the adult education relationship and the continuation of vocational training at dual training places on the basis of a vocational training contract are also a new element, not an apprenticeship, but a vocational training contract. Dear House, Mr Secretary of State has already mentioned the major changes. There are a lot of legal, linguistic and clarification provisions, but there are also some substantive measures. Let me tell you about one or two. One of the things that is very important, and the Secretary of State said so, is the 1995 CXVII on personal income tax. The amendment of the Act, the amendment of the scope of tax exemptions, as the system of scholarships, allowances and grants to students and trainees within the framework of the VET Act has undergone a major transformation and is accordingly exempt from tax. Let me underline something here: those who apply for vocational training, whether in a technical school or now in a vocational school, vocational school, vocational school, in the new system technique and vocational school, my opinion is that it is very important that they receive a scholarship. And they get a scholarship in the sector-based training, and everyone gets a scholarship. They receive a one-off start-up allowance, receive a scholarship by way of an Apáczai scholarship in view of the situation of necessity and good study results, and receive a salary based on a vocational training contract for those taking part in the dual training course, I can say that there is also a salary for work or other financial and non-financial benefits not exceeding the minimum wage, and that the Klebelsberg training scholarship is also available here. This is very important when we talk about career choice, we talk about career orientation, and, of course, the labour market needs as many professionals as possible. Let me mention, Mr Secretary of State has already said about entitlement to family allowances. This is, of course, true of students in the vocational training system. Or the 1999 CXXI. Act on Chambers of Economy and entrusts and strengthens the tasks of the organisation of master's and master's exams carried out so far by the Chambers of Economic Affairs. Then I would like to mention another amendment, the 2005 LXXXVIII on voluntary activity in the public interest. By amending the Act, the bill allows for a host organisation to be a vocational training institution in the context of voluntary activity of general interest. This was just said by my colleague László Földi, lead speaker at KDNP in the general debate of the VET Act. He made this suggestion, and technically the wallet thought about it, and it's undercover. To conclude, I would like to say briefly about the amendment of the law on national public education and adult education. I do not want to repeat, but to highlight certain elements of this, how important this is, since the system of adult education will be expanded with new elements. The 2011 CIX on national public education. By amending law, it re-regulates the system of public education tasks and institutions in the context of the establishment of a new, autonomous vocational training system. This, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, creates, for example, a new legal background for the functioning of the art gymnasiums and the acquisition of artistic qualifications. But, of course, the rules on vocational training activities of vocational schools will be amended in line with changes in the vocational training system, and the bill will provide a legal background for the 8th-grade students to study competence in choosing the appropriate secondary education course. I would just like to note in parentheses that there will also be sector-based training under the new vocational training law. Three things are very important: further education, sector-based training and reducing drop-out. We have talked about this in the general debate before, there is a Dobbantó programme, and there is a workshop which is intended to serve this. In fact, there is also an amendment, which also requires parents to have the responsibility to remain in education for more than 16 years without a profession or part-training. To conclude, a few ideas about adult education, because I will just underline and highlight why this is important, because in 2013 there was a law on adult education, the Adult Education Act, and it is now being harmonised and amended. It is important that education of professions in the new professional structure with longer training periods and a wide range of basic knowledge is not possible in adult education. Adult training can provide vocational training and, at the same time, this form of training becomes more dynamic and more flexible by setting programme requirements. As a new element, professional training can be organised in accredited examination centres recognised by the State. The personal scope of the regulation is also reflected, in addition to professional training, it is extended to all education and training. Adult education can be carried out by adult training, it is precisely legally determined who it may be, and the Secretary of State has also mentioned that adult training can be carried out on the basis of a notification or authorisation. It is very important that more stringent operational requirements must be met, I think I do not need to stress why we have done this; whereas it should be provided: quality management system, training programme, specific personal and material conditions. An adult education contract should be concluded with the person involved in the training, and the system of supervision of adult education should also be changed in the regulation of the Adult Education Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, it can be said that it is a vocational training law that has been adopted, as well as the provisions amending and entering into force and repealing it, which brings a new level of content and a stable legal background, which means that it awakens the students' desire for knowledge. Mr. Secretary of State spoke of the desire for knowledge. I was thinking of finishing a quote, let me tell you what this school is for, and it's a little bit of vocational training, and then I'll tell you where this quote comes from, because I deeply agree with it, and it fits this VET law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The school is designed to learn, to awaken a desire for knowledge, to learn the joy of doing well, to taste the excitement of creation, and to find the work that you will love. In my opinion, students who choose vocational training, this quote or this attitude, this thinking will help them to be successful people, and if they succeed, their immediate environment can also be successful, their wider environment, a settlement can be successful, and even a whole country, a whole nation can be successful. The quote is from Albert Szent-Györgyi, our only Nobel Prize winner who won the Nobel Prize in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-143	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Tamás Csányi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, who will give his speech on the pulpit. [[18.00]]
u2019-11-20-144	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I would be honoured to speak from here, face-to-face, not to the back of the head of my speech as a keynote speaker. I promise it won't be long, but I won't hide my critical remarks. I am fortunate to be able to turn back to the original law on this legislative proposal, which we voted on Tuesday in this House. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary could not stand by the government, we joined the law on the conversion of vocational education and training, we supported the teachers who thought that taking the public employment relationship was too expensive for a blank check. Indeed, Mr State Secretary, if you are already a civil servant, it is not yet clear to us who is specifically affected by the removal of status. Do you also teach trainers and/or public knowledge? In his reply to my interpellation on Monday, he forgot to mention this during the ring. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] And it was a very important question. Are you going to do that again, or are you going to clarify that question? We have not been able to stand by you in connection with the Vocational Training Act, because the principle of divide et impera, the principle of divide and rule, is much more serious than to consider it acceptable at any time. We have already talked about the unfortunate division of the pedagogical society, which you are aware of, and yet you are highlighting a piece of this community, and they say that your work is kinder to us, so we will reward you with more money. How do you think a non-training educator will feel from September 2020? I have my suspicions, Mr. Secretary, I suppose you do, too. With the possibility of a wage deal, we will be able to further deepen the trenches in the house, so to speak, because for the same work, a teacher who negotiates better and then gets more than the less well-hungry, although both do their work properly and without fault. I am afraid, Minister of State, that you are playing tricks on this issue, I do not think that the teachers involved are excluded from the status of civil servants in order to create more room for manoeuvre in terms of wages, because you know that the pay table only sets a minimum amount, that it is possible to deviate upwards, as there are many examples of this, which sets down limits. Then why do you have to do this? I think it's so that the other teachers are not affected by the increase in wages, because you don't want to put more into the system than is critically important, and that is very important. How much fairer and more generous it would have been, Mr Secretary of State, to align the 2014 screening fund with the minimum wage at the moment, and thus to ensure a predictable, continuous wage development for teachers, a colleague working in all areas of this beautiful profession. You have failed to do so. Why? You, Secretary of State, in response to my interpellation on Monday, said that the government will put HUF 35 billion into the system for the salary of 32,000 teachers. The offer you mentioned may also mean that 32,000 teachers will receive a gross HUF 90,000 monthly wage development. This is good news, Mr. Secretary, so can colleagues expect this increased salary from the summer of 2020? Reforming vocational training was essential, and we have to admit that. You have also noticed that during your administration, a tornado has swept from Nyíregyháza to Pécs, from Szeged to Sopron, and this whirlwind has taken all the specialists with it to Austria, Germany, England. The process is unstoppable until now, and the vacuum left here by Hungarian professionals mainly absorbs the cheap, unskilled labour force into our small country from Ukraine. You know that, and that is why they are rightly strengthening the background, trying to attract vocational training from both the student and the educator side, so that there will be professionals in Hungary in the near future. Their efforts are commendable, but unfortunately they are similar to those of a specialist who carries the ladder on his shoulder, and when he is told, he turns to the sound that the ladder on his shoulder beats everyone and everything around him. I do not doubt that you mean well, but that implementation cannot be supported, as you know very well that the trade unions do not support you on this issue either. Anyway, the ladder on your shoulders will take them and take the other teachers who are not subject to the law. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] That's why we didn't support the bill. We have also undertaken an ode of the reaction of the State Secretarys, because we have no doubt that if from now on a better politician will speak of the increase in teachers' wages within the walls of this House and demand it because of its indeterminateness, then you will be shouting the walls of this more worthy House as a parrot commando, saying that we have not voted for it, even though we could have. That is why, overall, I would like to say that, according to Jobbik's view, the highlight and such cure of vocational training is merely a symptomatic treatment, which does not solve the problems of education, does not solve the shortage of thousands of teachers, does not solve the problem of the burden of teachers, does not make the choice of teacher career much more attractive for young people. As soon as you submit a proposal for this, I will be the first to provide you with my support. But until then, there is no need for trenching, tensioning, increasing the division of the pedagogical society, so we cannot support this amendment bill either. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-20-145	As you can see. [[The chairmanship will be put in the right position by a staff member of the Office Security Service.]] The issue is the stability of legislation. [[Defiance.]] You know, it's only worth sitting in a chair that's stable. Where there is a trace of lability, it is better to have sufficient experience to stabilise this situation. As you can see, with your support, with pro-government and opposition support, we have stabilized the situation. That's your glory, so thank you very much. Mr Attila Móring, representative of the KDNP, notary of the Parliament, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-146	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said, recently a major bill, the T/7843 on vocational training. and then passed by the National Assembly. The aim of the law was to try to meet the interests of a constantly changing, even accelerating, labour market, and to answer the global questions of the future in the present. The development of vocational training is of general social interest. The effectiveness and effectiveness of vocational training have a fundamental impact on the lives of all Hungarian citizens either directly or indirectly. International examples show that the dual form of training can help reduce early school leaving, and we therefore need to encourage more vocational school pupils to graduate because their labour market prospects are better. The government side has focused on three important objectives in the field of vocational training: setting up a career opportunity, including the development of a wide-ranging scholarship system and attractive technic training; creating a modern learning and education environment, including the development of workshops and constantly updated digital education content; and ensuring up-to-date teaching skills. Our priority is to ensure that young people are real and that they see a career goal in vocational education and training in Hungary. The economy is looking for quality professionals and can only be guaranteed by a quality, attractive vocational training in all respects. Ladies and gentlemen, The VET Act represents such a significant conceptual, legal, organisational change that it is necessary to adapt the legislative environment. We are now debating this bill, and this proposal meets this need by amending some 80 laws. Although my fellow Members before me have already said the primary objective of the bill, I would like to reiterate in any case that the bill is a legislative amendment to the new vocational training law concerning the system of vocational training and adult training. This can be summarised as follows: the establishment of an independent vocational training, regulatory and institutional system, which is separated from a single system of public education, the establishment of an institutional structure with the related new tasks and powers; the division of tasks and competences related to the central management of the vocational training system between the government and the government responsible for the particular sector; the adjustment of the changing structure of education and training to the status of an adult in the context of student status; the continuation of vocational training at a dual training centre, on the basis of a contract of professional training; the introduction of a system of data reporting and data management related to the law. [[18.10]] On this basis, a major legislative transformation was required in respect of the Public Education Act and the Adult Education Act. What I would also like to point out is that the proposal also includes the 1995 CXVII on personal income tax. in law, an amendment to the scope of exemptions for each activity, as the system of scholarships, allowances and grants to students and trainees has undergone a major transformation within the framework of the relevant law. Accordingly, the grant paid under the law in respect of personal income tax to the extent determined by law, the one-off start-up allowance paid to the extent determined by law, the aid granted by way of a tender in the light of the situation of necessity and good study results and paid to the extent determined by law, the salary paid by law to persons participating in vocational training courses and other financial and non-financial allowances not exceeding the minimum wage, and the Klebelsberg training grant. Among the many amendments, I would like to highlight, last of all, the amendment of the Family Support Act. The proposal extends the entitlement to family allowances to learners in a vocational training system that departs from the public education system and sets out the legal rules for the transmission of the necessary data. Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP fraction will support the proposed bill, like the new VET law, and I ask you to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-20-147	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP, please.
u2019-11-20-148	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The truth is, they're waving this VET law around like they've invented... [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Spanish wax!]] Spanish wax. Well, that was invented, not so long ago, let's say, ten years ago. So what I see now is that what really happens is that they're trying to correct the last nine and a half years that have led to nothing but tragedy in the lives of so many children in vocational training. They made a mistake. It is no coincidence that this is no longer, I do not know what, third or fourth strategy; and it is no coincidence that the studies of the MNB itself and many of the published studies have acknowledged that the issues of vocational training have not gone in the right direction so far. So now they're basically acting like they're actually inventing something, even though we're just seeing a kind of a comeback, or we're looking at a sort of attempt to come back to the view that was before 2010. All of a sudden, you've got a high school diploma. All of a sudden, you acknowledge that you need more public education and that you need to prepare as much as possible children studying in vocational training for graduation. I have to say that graduation is the new primary school education, which should be the minimum for all children, and preferably bilingual schools in Hungary. I don't know what they did for nine years! I know more precisely, because there's a lot of bad stuff in education, but for example, you have a knowledge-based society or life-long learning, but they may have said it not so often, but they haven't created its conditions. Admitting, for example, that they try to mention the obligation to study until the age of 18 through an amendment and admit that a child should study until the age of 18. Maybe they're gonna pin this on the parents right now. I would add that the state, no state, and no government can ask the parents, until the state, which is, by the way, the sum of the citizens, does not do its own job. Therefore, this should not be the way to joke and smuggle back the reference to the obligation to study until the age of 18 through such modifiers, but rather to regulate this issue in a general manner. And by the way, the fact that at the end of the day you have considered that the reason why the hell it is eaten is that too many people have crumbled down in our time, because wherever I look from it, this number has increased, it also proves that in one of the backgrounds of this planned vocational training 4.0 strategy, you have written 17 years, which is left out of our pain now, but you can see that this is the strongest tool for the government at the time, whether it is right or left, but if it is intended for the children to stay in school, and then we will try to do a public education that can lead to the age limit of compulsory education, because it is just a tool... we do not preach about raising the age of compulsory education because we socdemes are obsessed with this, in fact, 20 years or 21 years, but how! It's just a tool in the hands of the governments at all times, the strongest way to keep children from losing their lives and not to leave public education without some kind of professional education. Vocational training in supply and demand is also said many times, because the market, as well as market players, tells us not to send half-alfabeta children to our workshops. CHAPTER XXI 20th century professions require much more complex skills from children, as I said earlier in the debate on the VET Act. I don't accept that fidesz argument, because unfortunately it was said earlier, years ago, that an auto mechanic could use a hammer and a wrench, but we're not installing Wartburgs and Trabants, we're installing Audit and Mercedes. These kids. [[Interruption from the benches of the governing parties.]] Yes, and here comes the next question of how to get into vocational training. Otherwise, disadvantaged families choose because the children of middle-class families go to high schools. But what we want is to say, in families with multiple disadvantages, where the mother, father, was a skilled worker, let's say, to go to a good profession, but she already needs other skills than her parents; or let's say, those who didn't have the ability, and father, mother, were in public work or were raised in the dump, those children of the state should have something to do with the help of a good profession. By the way, that's what integration is all about. Next to me in elementary school in Kiskunmajsa for eight years, there was a Gypsy girl in the class. I'm from a middle-class, lower middle-class rural family, and we've seen, in my own example, that out of the three or four gypsy children who went with us, they became chief nurses at the hospital, they could be entrepreneurs, and now one of their children has gone to college. So, they learn the most from the middle class, the kids learn from each other the most. The teacher is no longer the primary source of knowledge, and as technology complicates, the world is evolving, it is increasingly so. The teacher has a kind of management role, and the most important thing in this respect is the representation of the human being above all, the image of a consensual society. Back to vocational training. So I don't see that the Dumpling Program... And now I can't tell if the Bridge programs are going to be launched... [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Yes.]] Then the Bridge programs will cease, and the Drumbo will be replaced by them. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai's intervention.]] I do not see in-depth guarantees that the government will make a greater effort to make taxpayers of the most disadvantaged children, if that word says something to you because of their regnality. We also consider it a big mistake to remove vocational training from public education. That's where he belongs. One of their fellow Members I was talking to was a fidesz colleague, and he told me in private, because it was clear that there was no agreement in this regard, but he said: Agnes, if the aspects of vocational training will prevail, when they moved him from the Ministry, they took him away, but it is okay if the role of the economy is more important, but the aspects of public education will prevail. This is the first time I've seen this in recent years, by the way, that they might move in this direction, but it's a master's plan... [[Defiance.]] It's not a master's plan, it's a framework law, and then in the regulations, the devil is in the details, we'll see that in fact there will be enough public knowledge lessons, there will be a sufficient amount of quality training, time, expense and energy. [[18.20]] And taking away the status of civil servant is a very painful thing for us. I agree with my better fellow Member, and I would not repeat it, I think that the government could have managed through a special vocational training allowance not to take away the status of civil servant, but to raise wages so that many people would stay on the field and not work for low wages. That's usually it. We discussed this in the general debate of the law, by the way. Let's hope it's a little better than what we've seen in the last nine years. What I'd like to do for the rest of my time is the situation in private schools. The rule is that a private public education institution can be registered and its registration may be modified if, on the basis of the advice of the Minister for Education, it is capable of organising basic public education tasks. And here you are talking about a kind of simplification, Mr Secretary of State, because of complicated bureaucratic rules. I think it's easiest not to give, then there's no problem with that. So, if only the minister decides who gets permission and who doesn't, we don't think it's a good thing, because it's an opportunity for a person's knowledge, not even his goodwill or malice, that the minister wants to give some kind of permission to a private school, but it's never a good thing that one person's knowledge or ability decides to recognize what is needed or not. Not to mention the fact that the private institutions in Hungary are going to raisins. This will provide a way and opportunity for raisins and only private institutions that are dear to them, perhaps politically appropriate, to be able to operate further. And it continues that the maintainer of the public educational institution operating under the alternative framework plan will later initiate the VET Act by 1 April 2020 9. The procedure laid down in paragraph 8 of § 8 of the Act and in the event of failure to do so, the licence of the public education institution shall expire on 31 August 2020. So everyone needs to be reauthorized. This is also a way to select, and we do not think that is right. Again, it's easier not to give. So when you refer to simplification, I think it's very dangerous. And here it is important to talk about the fact that the vast majority of foundation and private schools in Hungary have performed and performed the tasks that the state cannot or does not want to take care of. Children requiring special methods were enrolled in these schools by their parents because the public school system failed for some reason. These children could indeed be improved by designing a specific course, and a lot of parents wonder what will happen if they pull these schools out of their children. 'Cause now you can pull it out. It is also outrageous to destroy these schools because we can see that the state is constantly starting private schools from tax forints. The saddest, most cynical and most outrageous thing is that while the political elite, the fidesz right side, sees that public schools often lack as much and quality knowledge as private institutions, they take out their own children and even create private institutions from public forints; it is enough to mention only Debrecen. So you know and you know that there isn't. But there's something else. And I'll wait and see if there's, like, a private vocational school. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: I'll make sure of it.]] Although rich kids don't go to vocational schools, I said that earlier, so it's not worth doing here. So you can yell like that, my fellow Member, but let's face it, you actually know, and the elite know what a child needs in the 21st century. In the first century, what skills should be developed. But the thing is, if you have money, you get normal health care, if you don't have it, you don't get it, if you have money, you can take your kid to a normal educational facility, if you don't have it, then pray for him to learn to write and read and interpret texts. That's not the right idea of state. With that, we have a straight spine, but we're facing it because we don't think it's the state's job. And it should also be seen that in recent years, the vast majority of public education innovations have been or have been created in these private institutions with a nasty word. These should be taken into account, and many good methods should be taken over by public schools in general. You can't say what Secretary Retvári said that they will teach the children according to a specific protocol. You said that about six years of schooling, but you look at children according to the same protocol. Kids are different. There's a difference between a rich kid and a rich kid. I'm the II. I was a municipal representative in the district, and I saw that sometimes there are a lot of problems, and I really need special institutions, because from hyperactivity to other problems, there are a lot of things present. And it's not about money. Then what difference does it make, let's say, a II. Did you have a baby in a district with a baby born in a dumpster? And the state must know what to do with it, and preferably not to bring these children together, separate them, because the poor cannot develop from the poor. Poverty brings misery, we have to help each other. I see it in this VET Act, and today your comments point to me in the direction that what I have said here in the last 14 minutes and 11 seconds, you know that, and you know that, even if you have not said these words in recent years. But they know clearly, because between 1998 and 2002, they didn't do that, and that was much better. I was disappointed as a socialist, a socialist, because I thought that with such authority, you would do much better things at least in this area. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-149	Thank you very much. The leader of the Democratic Coalition is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-150	Thank you very much. Let me start by saying that I am coming to the assistance of Congressman Vinnai, who has clearly been unable to get rid of the dilemma that the opposition has had about this bill for two weeks, and why is it that we have a fellow Member who finally discovers a concept in this proposal, and I say that this whole idea of transformation is still unconventional. Because, fellow Members, it depends on the depth of thought we expect from a bill. In that sense, my fellow Members, either Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi or my fellow Member, who said that there is a great concept here, that we finally see a direction that meets European trends, which finally looks like a modern concept of vocational training. It was from the heart of all of us that the quote put forward by the congressman. And we say that something is finally happening in the field of vocational training, something that we have longed for, which is not about everything that was wrong before 2010, and it is not about going back now to the successes of the past, but at last looking forward and looking for where the future of vocational training is, where to go forward. But that I still lack the right concept, the prepared, thought-out strategy, is just what this bill proves to me. Let me start with the simplest thing. We opposed many when the VET bill was debated, that the government had forgotten to submit to it the legislative proposals that would have revealed the relationship between public education and vocational training, how this would affect the status of students, students, students in training, and a number of similar issues were opened at the time during the debate on the bill. Compared to this, the government has chosen a very strange solution. Because he could have done that, and it would have been the luckier and truly thought-out conceptual solution to develop the entire model and then submit the bill in unity. It would have been even better, of course, but I would have mentioned this on the plus side, if there had been a justification for this, which would show in substance the functioning of the new system and its relations, which would show why individual measures are needed. But if you hadn't done that, my dear Secretary of State, it would have been elegant to wait for the adoption of the law. [[18.30]] You presented this bill without knowing what Parliament would accept. I'm only bringing this up because we were just discussing the authority of the Parliament today. How much the government respects the authority of the Parliament, which submits a bill without knowing otherwise that they will accept the previous one and in what way. This clearly shows what this government considers Parliament to be: a voting machine, a stamp printing machine, and a non-essential legislation. Once again, it could have been amended in one way and, of course, in a uniform way, but if it hadn't been submitted in one piece, you would have been able to wait until the Parliament passed the law. Well, you didn't have to worry about it because the voting machine worked and, of course, accepted it and, of course, didn't accept any amendments that would have changed the original idea for teachers, students or even for the stability of the institutional system. There is, in fact, a fundamental question about this bill, which I would not otherwise like to give a rashly extreme answer to. This is the question of how vocational training and public education can be separated from each other. Traditionally in Hungary, let's not go into it now, let's say, since the '60s at least, this was basically a uniform system in its legal framework and regulation, and it continued in this way after the change of regime. Thus, after the change of regime, this system was built in such a way that basically the functioning of the institutions of vocational education and training in schools was regulated by the Public Education Act or by the Public Education Act, and the VET Act was essentially complementary to this. This has been criticised by many people, especially from the world of vocational training, because they felt that this legislative solution was not sufficiently adapted to their needs. And, no doubt, if we look around Europe, there is all sorts of solutions, not a well-functioning system of public education and vocational training, where these institutions operate separately from each other in a legal sense. What's the problem with the solution you're choosing now? At least two. On the one hand, such a change of weight can only normally take place after long professional debate, planning and appropriate transition periods. That's what I'm missing. Now you can see how the government is running after itself. Because, of course, it is primarily a matter of making a law, of course, they want to put it into effect on 1 January, but in the meantime, it also has to be passed through the other law. Instead of making the original law at a normal pace, and then there would have been plenty of time to think about even further legislative changes, this crazy, rushing pace is now taking place. But this is because everything is very urgent to you; because you have screwed up this thing in the last decade to such an extent that damage must be dealt with as quickly as possible. I have to add, after we think it's messed up, so we would definitely be partners in reducing the damage, so let's just be honest about this, and let's not throw another turn at it, another change, a very fundamental change in vocational training, the world of public education, that otherwise there is no time to prepare for normal change and normal time for its implementation. So, I said it's supposed to be possible or it's possible to run a system. Even though, in the early 1990s, the system of rules that the then educational government maintained the Public Education Act for the system of vocational training, and this created double regulation, it does not necessarily have to be so. However, there is a very important problem with this kind of story. This type of separation works well in countries where primary education, including the lower middle level, provides the right basis for vocational training. I do not think that any of my fellow Members would be able to say with a calm heart that, in the case of children going to vocational school, they come from the basic level of public education, which is certainly the basis for vocational training; that they do not need to be dealt with from this point of view, that there is no longer an educational task, and there is actually only the need for vocational training. There are several reasons for this. Part of it is pedagogical, but the other part is simply due to the fact that the base and the lower middle degree are too short. This is more or less complicated in Hungary, but it corresponds to the upper school. Both grades are too short. So we could have gone in the direction of detaching vocational training. The reason why the vocational schools and the traditional vocational schools were in this particular dual system was because they also had complementary, catching-up functions for public education. You've destroyed this, destroyed it, especially in the case of vocational schools, according to the current name of the vocational schools. I'd like to take it back now, but in the meantime, they're being removed from the law. We agree on how to get it back, how to bring it back, how to improve skills in vocational school, because we can see that it doesn't work without it. For example, I deeply agree with the words of the Member. But then it won't work without otherwise eliminating the organic relationship of this institutional system with public education. There could have been all sorts of solutions here, and I know that the government was thinking about these things, how to advance grade zero, ninth grade back, how to improve this system. Look, it doesn't really work... and I'm sure they'll give you an international example of where it works. If we were at a professional conference, we would argue about why or why this is not the case. According to all experience in Hungary, by the age of 14, most of the children cannot be brought to the level where they could otherwise meet the needs of vocational training and then the needs of remaining in the profession. If this is the case, then either the vocational training institution must have a public education function, then such legislation must also be excluded from the law, or the general education school system must be provided. Both are a good solution, each has an advantage and a disadvantage, but you do not do either, and in particular there is a lack of analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of each solution. As a result, the current amendment does not essentially address substantive issues. It won't solve the problem. I agree with Mr Secretary of State, it is a surprising development, indeed a technical amendment. The problem is, the problem isn't technical. The problem is essentially policy and strategic. And this strategic problem will not be solved. Where the Public Education Act used to exist, it was entered in the law on public education and vocational training. That doesn't solve anything. That doesn't tell us that there's such a regulation, we don't know how the system works. In general, I would also like to say that, by the way, I consider it a misconception in the logic of the current government to separate the management systems of public education, vocational training and higher education from each other because of all kinds of purse fights and ministry struggles. There could be specific legislation, I say once again, a good solution to this, but I am convinced that we need a unified sectoral governance over the whole system, and I would say to my heart that even over adult education, which was not the case at the time of our government, but I still think it was a mistake. I must say, therefore, that there is an amazing need in this country for a single, well-functioning educational wallet that covers the whole of education. We now see the problems caused by the two wallets dragging the cart in different directions. We understand, of course, that the Ministry of Innovation is in a winning position because of the complex technological contexts, and he draws everything to him. The Secretary of State is satisfied with this, and I don't blame him, but the fact is that there may be a new EMMI minister who will be better off with the Prime Minister, or he will be a rising star, and then maybe they will drag the whole system back again. It's not very good for education, and it's not good professionally. You know, there's one basic problem: the child is the same. From now on, he's actually going to daycare or even lower, the same child, at least until he finishes vocational training or gets his degree. And it doesn't do him any good to try to train him in different-minded, disintegrating systems. I would like to talk about two specific issues, one of which I will not surprise: this is the regulation on alternative schools. Dear Secretary of State, I understand everything. Just tell me what this has to do with the VET bill. I'll tell you what, nothing in the world. [[18.40]] You want to take down the alternative schools. They already introduced a kind of regulation in the summer, which didn't work, because it turns out that the Waldorf Schools have a great power of advocacy enough not to be so easily pushed out with them, and now they're trying to use another regulation. I know they promised the Waldorf Schools again, but they're gonna be exceptions. There's just a lot of alternative schools out there. He says, Mr. Secretary, that what will happen here is that there will be no more bureaucratic rules here. Aha! In English: there will be no guarantee, there is no regulation on how schools are allowed and in what way not. From this point on, it becomes a lordship, then decides the given wallet, given minister is now this minister, at other times another minister, who knows what a good alternative school is, we don't. I am sure that the Turkish school of Erdoğan will always be a good school as long as you are in government, whatever you do and whatever terrorist connections you have. But in addition to that, who will be a good school, it will depend on who is sympathetic to the minister and where the Fidesz MEPs have their children and where they lobby or lobby effectively for them. I would like to speak very briefly about the Adult Education Act and its amendment. Since I am afraid that my fellow Members have had enough patience, I would just like to point out that, in the field of adult education, there are a number of rules which, although also do not belong, belong or relate to the VET Act, but which are also good rules, they settle certain issues, make the world of adult education more orderly and more regular, which is not just adult vocational training, I tell my fellow Members in silence because they forget it. But then you don't have to collect this into this legislation, but you have to develop and introduce an adult education law amendment, you have to put this area in order, and I think everyone would be inclined to do so. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-151	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the LMP, Mrs Krisztina Hohn, is next. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-152	Thank you very much for the floor. It may not be easy to speak after this speech, since Gergely Arató has said many things that I would like to say, but I would like to confirm some things. This salad law contains dozens of legislative amendments, and if it is adopted, then it will be the law on vocational training that we have already passed, and we have not, but you have to comply with the legal system. While we know that the concerns of the Waldorf schools have been shattered, because they have managed to reach an agreement with a State Secretary, and this is no longer as worrying to them as they had previously thought, but from the point of view of other private schools, I think it still is. That is because it cancels the appropriate authorisation for the functioning of alternative institutions, which has been declared by law since 2003, on the basis of which private institutions could carry out and carry out their pedagogical activities in accordance with different general rules. In the event of the adoption of the proposal, the Public Education Act will not be published at all, nor will it be mentioned, alternative pedagogies, framework plans and kindergarten pedagogical programmes. The proposal could cause damage to the fundamental rights of freedom of teaching, freedom of teaching and the free choice of education. The proposal basically calls into question the existence of private institutions for the following reasons. In the absence of legal authorisation, it is not guaranteed that their institutions can retain the specific features set out in their framework curriculum, such as specific curriculum, self-management, specific operating principles, specific education organisation, different pupils' compulsory classes. There is no guarantee either to preserve the characteristics so far or to expand them in the future. In addition, the introduction of a ministerial authorisation instead of an alternative phase is bad in the proposal, and the Hungarian Waldorf community, which has joined the association, can no longer speak with one voice, since the individual institutions have to obtain the ministerial authorisation individually. This was one of their main concerns about this law. According to the proposal, the Minister can only authorise specific solutions to the content of education, which are essentially limited to educational material and kindergarten educational content. In addition to the text of the proposal, the Minister is not entitled to authorise a specific solution. Therefore, according to the regulation of the proposal, the issue of the content of education depends solely on the discretion of the minister, since it can only be authorised. Thus, it is a serious concern that private institutions will be completely vulnerable to current or current ministerial or government will. Rule 77 of the proposal In accordance with Article 5 of the Act, the definition of the detailed requirements of the examination is excluded from the ministerial regulation. Instead, it will be published in the form of a ministerial official publication, published on the website. The absence of the legal form is essentially a non-compliance with the legal guarantee rules on legislation, since the requirements for the examination of diplomas, their content, their entry into force, their ability to know and so on are subject to direct ministerial manual control. For decades, the proposal has broken down the practice of public education and public education regulation, which is an infringement of legal certainty in the field of the state examination of formal qualifications. The proposal is 79. § 2 of the Act abolishes the right to appeal against a decision to register, which may adversely affect the process of setting up an institution if it restricts the right to set up an institution by bringing an appeal to court by withdrawing an appeal. The appeal provides a quick remedy within the system of public education, unlike a court case, which is known to be much slower. The proposal introduces another mandatory competence measurement to measure the career choice skills of eighth graders. The proposal is also offensive because it is completely unnecessary, because the high school admission procedure, which is the current regulation, already provides students with the choice, and it is particularly harmful in pedagogical terms to keep students on the side of their skills that help them to further study, as the choice of student rights will be influenced by such measurements as choice of further education. Since I do not wish to be long and to abuse the patience of my fellow Members, I would like to say that the LMP fraction, as well as the VET law, will not support this either. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-153	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group, Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I think this law is one of the best evidences of the incompetence of the Fidesz government, a clear demonstration of the incompetence that we are experiencing, by the way, from week to week here, who are trying to follow the work of the Parliament. In itself, the fact that we are talking about a law that amends a law that is practically unaccepted through dozens of paragraphs is ridiculous in itself. But if we look at why it turned out this way, And what concrete, tangible clues are there, then we can see that the Fidesz government has forgotten to govern, that you are no longer interested in public policy work, reflection on people's real problems, don't give up, God, finding solutions to end up with such legal freaks coming out of your hands. If we have mentioned in the last speeches the restrictions on alternative schools, their re-regulation, which, by the way, has nothing to do with a vocational training law, then let me clear up a few misunderstandings, which is perfectly understandable here, even among opposition fellow Members. It is understandable because yesterday the government, more specifically Secretary Maruzsa, tried to clarify itself from all those perfectly legitimate and well-founded accusations, from the fears that have kept tens of thousands of families excited all weekend in Hungary. It's a sign that the Fidesz government really wants to disable the operation of alternative schools. According to Maruzsa, as my fellow Member Arató suggested, no, Secretary of State Maruzsa said that no, this is a complete misunderstanding, he stated, according to the reminder of the meeting, that neither the Ministry's intention, regardless of the curriculum, the pedagogical approach they operate, nor that this law serves to disable schools that are now trying to obtain accreditation. This, let's say, is also a specific saying because we saw that the accreditation of a very reputable new initiative, an alternative school network, was rejected at the competent bodies this week. [[18.50]] But now let's put the unpleasant reality aside. Professional representation was convinced by the Secretary of State that there was nothing to worry about, and by convincing them to radically rewrite this bill. So that's exactly what it's about, let me quote you literally this reminder of the meeting. They say I don't want to bore you with every detail, but you'll find it again on the Waldorf Alliance website, virtually everything the State Secretary has blown away. It can be seen that there is a completely unimaginable piece of legislation going on, that the incompetents are working on the draft laws, which are competing with each other in the system of legislation. I'll tell you what the problem is. The failure to comply with the legislative law, the legislation on social consultation, which requires that all regulations, all government and ministerial decrees and, first and foremost, all laws be sent to social consultation. I have now looked at the scope of kormany.hu for this purpose: while only this week we are discussing dozens of legislative proposals, this autumn, so in September, October and November, a single bill was published on this website, where social consultation could actually take place between stakeholders, civil society organisations, professional representatives or, in this case, teachers' trade unions or even parents' organisations. Here, the Ministry of the Interior deserves a piece of praise. I do not know how many cases they have failed to fulfil this obligation, but ITMs represented by all the other ministries, i.e. the Secretary of State, have failed to comply with their legal obligations, if you will. It is no coincidence, by the way, that law requires that the parties concerned should be consulted, especially in the case of such an extensive legislative amendment, since such amateur errors, in that case, would be perfectly opposed to the draft which the Parliament would then have to negotiate on, would then be avoided. So I suggest that the ladies and gentlemen show a little more modesty, professional humility and commitment to work in the next period, and then perhaps there will be an opportunity, and there will be merit to engage in a professional debate with you. In the meantime, with such legislative proposals, not with salads, but with such lousy laws, or, if you will, with the newer and more freaks of Frankenstein legislation, please do not burden this House, nor destroy the authority of Parliament, nor bother citizens or fellow Members. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-155	Dear Parliament, Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I therefore give the floor to Mr Antal Paulik, a Slovak ethnic advocate, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translate them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-156	-akujem za slovo, pan predseda! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pán predseda, poslanci, hovorcovia, vážený pán štátny tajomník! Vo svojom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností Ma.arska, ktoré sme si vytvorili na zasadnutí národnostného výboru 18. novembra k návrhu zákona číslo T/8014 o modifikácii niektorých nariadení v súvislosti s novým zákonom o odbornom školstve. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, As the spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to give you a brief presentation of the opinion of our committee at its meeting on 18 November on the draft amending and repealing provisions relating to the entry into force of the Act on Vocational Training. As I said in the general debate on the draft law on vocational training, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary pays particular attention to national education, including public education and vocational training. In my speech at the time, I indicated that the 2011 CXC on national public education. The limitation of existing educational permissions for the cultural autonomy of nationalities in the context of the ongoing conversion of vocational education and training is not acceptable for domestic nationalities. In his reply at that time, the Secretary of State indicated that the government did not intend to restrict any rights of nationality. As this statement has been fully agreed in our committee, we have sought first and foremost to confirm it in the draft that we have just discussed. The draft has been reviewed and interpreted in detail, even because it changes a number of legislation, while repealing quite a lot of provisions. Of course, as in the debate on the VET Act, we have considered the issues of nationality in the Commission's discussion of the draft. We have all agreed that in the current Public Education Act, the privileges and guarantee elements that ensure that the rights of nationalities to mother tongue education and education are not violated have appeared in a satisfactory detail. We have looked for these provisions in the draft VET Act, and we have also examined the existence of them in this draft, in terms of the extent to which the earlier rights of nationalities have remained, following the adoption of the current amendments. The package of amendments tabled by the Minister for Innovation and Technology on behalf of the Government, as has already been said several times, changes a total of 80 laws. In fact, most of these are technical amendments, it is about transferring the concepts and provisions of the VET Act that have now been adopted, and they do not directly affect national education or vocational training, so our committee has focused on reviewing the laws relevant to nationalities between the eighty laws. The draft contains two of these: it amends the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act and the 2011 CXC on Public Education. The provisions of the Act on nationality public education. Point 51 of the draft law before us now contains amendments to several provisions of the existing law on the rights of nationalities. These meet the expectations of the nationality committee in relation to the VET Act, as they contain the standards and entitlements previously published in the national minority law in respect of vocational training. In the institutional list of all the points previously related to ethnic public education institutions, there are also standards applicable to national vocational training institutions and their pupils, which we have agreed to. The proposal also retains the possibility to take over and operate vocational training institutions operating under the national minority programme, as well as to regulate the conditions for taking over and running it in the same way as the expectations of institutions of general education as a whole, which is one of the most important achievements of nationalities in the legislative changes to national education in recent years. It is therefore with satisfaction that we have also noted the transfer of these provisions to vocational training institutions. The next point of the draft, which is also relevant for nationality purposes, is 54, which amends the provisions of the Public Education Act in order to include new elements of the VET Act in this legislation. To this end, the draft amends the Public Education Act in 31 cases, adds or amends the existing text in 30 points, and lists in 46 the parts that the Ministry intends to repeal. These, on the one hand, do not include provisions directly relating to nationality institutions or forms of education, on the other hand, and, on the other hand, they transfer wordings and legal references in accordance with the provisions of the new vocational training law, which is why our committee has not commented on most of them. Because of the above, the main part of the draft that repeals the whole set of provisions of the Public Education Act was examined at the national minority committee meeting, which affects the whole system of nationality education in several points. The majority of the changes are acceptable to us, but at one point in the draft, the rapporteur intends to repeal the earlier right of the Minister of Human Resources to adopt and issue, in addition to other directives, a directive on pre-school education of nationalities and a directive on education of nationalities in schools. That provision of public education law did not cause concern in our committee because of the fact that it was repealed, but because, as a general rule, the Minister sought the agreement of the national minority authorities in the previous preparation for the issue of those ministerial decrees. And since the present draft does not contain any reference to the form in which future amendments to the national minority directives can be made, which is, by the way, a regular one, we do not see the form and possibility of future application of the relevant Memorandum of Understanding. [[19.00]] The unanimous opinion of the committee on nationality on this point is that if we do not receive a satisfactory response to the future fate of these directives, we will prepare or submit an amendment to the draft in order to regulate it. At the meeting of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary on Monday, in addition to the above, a further question on the draft which I believe should also be raised in the general debate. The draft is the 2011 CXC on national public education. It is currently working with its current text, quoting and extending its existing provisions to the system to be set up by the new VET Act. However, at the latest amendment of the Public Education Act, certain amendments to national minority education rights, national minority rights in public education have already been adopted, which will enter into force as of January 2020. The question that we have raised is what will be the fate of these amendments, how the VET Act and the draft before us will deal with these provisions which will enter into force in January. In conclusion, the present draft responds to a number of questions raised in the general debate of the VET Act, as well as to points of dispute, in detail and in terms of nationality. From our point of view, this means that, during the debate of the VET Act, we have received answers to the vast majority of our proposals on the fate of the provisions of the national minority and public education law governing national minority education rights from the present proposal, so the draft legislation will be proposed for adoption by our committee. .akujem Vám za posornosť! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-157	Thank you very much. There will now be two-minute speeches, first of which will be Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-158	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dakujem, že ste krátke, pan prezident. I would like to translate: thank you very much for being so short, Mr President. I would like to draw attention to a problem that has already been mentioned in these two minutes, but perhaps it is worth mentioning once again: sex segregation in vocational secondary schools or vocational training. Each survey shows that the last one I read was a little earlier, a survey in 2017, about the typical male and female professions, and that it is, in fact, the choice of who can find their place of employment, and in this way it is usually determined what kind of salary can be paid by the person who has graduated from vocational school. Now, this survey shows that women in vocational secondary school have a significantly lower chance of employment and unemployment than men in vocational secondary school, and their average salary is lower, and this is also supported by the fact that women choose less marketable professions at a much higher rate. That is why I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that this is a matter that deserves to be dealt with, since it determines the position and potential of women in the labour market in the long term, and it is perhaps worth fighting the inequality that every survey shows that ladies, women and men earn almost less than men in any profession. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-20-159	Thank you very much. Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz, in two minutes!
u2019-11-20-160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the ethnic advocate for his professional comment on what was really being tabled, not to reflect on the re-general debate of the previous vocational training law, as many others have done. I just want to clarify one thing. Agnes Kunhalmi said there was a private school in Debrecen. I would like to point out that we are talking about an international school, the main maintainer of which is the University of Debrecen. If you think this is a private school, then all university training schools should be considered private schools. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-161	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK!
u2019-11-20-162	Thank you very much. I find it extremely disturbing to hear what Congressman Pósán said, because we can therefore expect that there will also be very, very high tuition fees in other university schools as you have created at the school in Debrecen.
u2019-11-20-163	I would just like to inform the Members who have applied for a two-minute speech, who are in a group from which their partner has already spoken in this round, that they can make their speech in the next round. I also said this partly so that I would be particularly pleased to leave their speeches. [[Defiance. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Thank you! Applause for the opposition.]] Now we are going back to the speakers that have been announced. Congressman Csaba Nagy, Fidesz, please.
u2019-11-20-164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am trying to comment on the bill, as I am reading the bill on the amendment and repealing provisions relating to the entry into force of the 2019 VET Act, and here I have listened to the debate, and I had the feeling that this bill is obviously linked to another bill that we have already adopted. But there is one basis for both legislative proposals, this is the, vocational training 4.0 The medium-term professional policy strategy for the renewal of vocational education and training, the response of the vocational training system to the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution. The Minister and his team, who are responsible for innovation and technology, have developed this material, which, I think, is a very nice professional material, very important, with a statement, statistical data, which is of utmost importance for Hungarian social policy. I would suggest to my fellow Members that, if they have time, they should read it, because it confronts reality, and it may give a lot of explanation as to why it is necessary to negotiate and adopt these two legislative proposals. If you read into this, you will learn a lot about Hungary, the Hungarian society, the situation of education, vocational training, and I would also like to turn to the legislative amendments that this strategy may support. Several of my fellow Members have talked about the fact that this legislative system has set up and developed a separate regulatory and institutional structure for vocational training which is separated from a single system of public education. If I may, I would like to talk about this in such a practical approach, the three-year vocational training course and the five-year technical training course, which some professionals consider to be the hallway of engineering training. [[Gergely Arató: This is not included in this bill! I'm just saying.]] I think that it is very important that a system of institutional networks be set up, my honourable fellow Member, in which these professional and education policy reforms can be implemented, and I think that they already belong, in practical terms, to the legislative amendment. I also think that, in recent times, life has simply forced Hungary and the Ministry and the Government to try to provide those professional competences to citizens in the education system, through vocational training, which can ensure a market location. Since 2010, 800,000 more people have been working in the country, four and a half million now, and unemployment has fallen to one third. That is why I think it is very important that the management of the vocational training system, the tasks, the division of powers between the government and the Ministry of Industry and the executive staff responsible there are now precisely formulated, if that is the case. It is very important that the legal relationship between pupils and adults has finally been clarified. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] One of the biggest problems in the last 10 to 20 years has been that there has not been a completely transparent and clean system here. (Gergely Harvester intervenes.) It is important to regulate vocational training on the basis of contracts of employment during dual training, and it is also important that a database will be established in which these trainings can be monitored. And in order to appreciate those who choose a profession or take their lives in a direction where they want to make a living from work and professional work, I think it is very important that we also provide benefits in this set of legislation on personal income tax and VAT that will help with professional education and vocational training, as well as with the examination and the settlement of the fee for the examination in respect of personal income tax and VAT. [[19.10]] It is very important that the notified adult education, the statutory and licensed adult training will be included, and the examination will be included. I also think it is very important to encourage language learning by removing the costs of the test from the general turnover tax. I must say that one of the very important parts of the appreciation of students in the profession and I also consider it important to change this place of legislation is that the organisation and conduct of study and talent-care competitions will also be exempt from VAT. And how and how a government can support training itself, how and how a government can support it through a system, this is what the amendment to the personal income tax law, which makes a scholarship, a one-time career contribution, support for a needy situation, benefits, wage benefits and non-wage benefits free of income tax for students who participate in vocational training. This all contributes to the renewal of the vocational training system itself. Obviously, the bill amends and clarifies a number of pieces of legislation so that the new vocational training law can enter into force. And perhaps, what I think is very important, and if you will read this 4.0 strategy, you will see that this concept is not only about vocational training, because here, in this strategy, you can read about who, where, how, how, how they break out of our education system. And even though we've always said in self-critical terms that the numbers we've got are obviously going to have to be reduced. But I have looked at the fact that, for example, in my county, where I am a Member, this drop in the last two years has dropped from 14 percent to 8 percent, so I think that the direction that the government started with these legislative amendments is a very good direction. Finally, one final thought and I ask everyone to adopt this law, I hope, in the same agreement as at the previous stage of this legislation, that good professionals, good respect should be given to colleagues who work in this system, and that they will be able to bring in competences that they may not be able to bring from the market in this period, and that we will be able to bring more and more qualified and better prepared young people out into the labour force world, because that is probably the essence of this bill and the previous bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2019-11-20-165	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP, in two minutes!
u2019-11-20-166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems that my fellow Member Csaba Nagy and I will fall into the same sin [[Depreciation and interruptions.]] My time is running, we're going to talk about the law in general. [[Laughing:]] Csaba Nagy said that Csaba Nagy, Csaba Nagy said that life forced this law out. I have to say, where has life been all these years? In recent years, hasn't life forced you to have children who need graduations, skill development, development of public knowledge? Yeah, it was a work-based society at the time, obviously we're going to the knowledge society now. So that's the problem. But given the shortness of time, I have to say that I would like to waste a few sentences on the public education function of vocational training. This is where your nine-year primary school has flown in the past few years. That is why my fellow Member Gergely Arató said that this is why we do not see a coherent concept, because where there is such an element, there is one element, but there is one thing I would like to add. We MSZPs can support this, but only if we do not have a zero, segregation class, and only if we were to extend the junior grade of primary school in a single, coherent nine-year period would be very good. 'Cause then it would really be the skill development, the foundation, because after that, we're going to high school, which is falling apart, and the kid is going to fall apart in high school, too, and they're gonna have to change that, and they're gonna go from there to high school or high school or higher education. This would be very good if the junior high were to be extended. Finally, it has been said here from my fellow Member, Mr Arató, that vocational training, public education and higher education should be placed in a single management system, in my opinion, in a separate Ministry of Education. [[A voice from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] Mr. President, I'm asking for 10 seconds for what happened earlier. 'Cause I found one of these... [[Intercoms.]] Don't I have two minutes? [[Interventions from opposition benches: No. Interviews from the benches of Fidesz: It's over! It's expired!]] Ooh! So, I found one of these...
u2019-11-20-167	Well, that's the thing. [[Defiance.]] I'm sure that, fully understanding the matter of sin and request, we can listen to everything in the next two minutes, but I have to follow the rules of the house. As much as I tried to help her fall, that's all I could do. [[Noise, clarity.]] And now, Mr. Winner Vinnai, think about how you're going to proceed. [[Noise.]]
u2019-11-20-168	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The fall is now avoided, but I would like to respond to the words of Ágnes Kunhalmi and Gergely Arató, in particular that Ágnes Kunhalmi said that the situation in vocational training was disastrous and that we did nothing from 2011. [[Gergely Harvesto: He didn't say. Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes. Noise.]] I have listened to you, Congresswoman. I'd like to say that 8.5% more people have chosen vocational high school and secondary school than high school. I don't want to confront any misunderstanding about applying to high school and going to vocational school, vocational school, vocational school, this term technician right now, the point is in my opinion, and that's why I asked for a word for the kid to go to college. To study, not to have eight generals, or not even to many places. I come from a place in Szabolcs County where many people don't even have eight generals, and that's why early school leaving is higher in these areas. Now, in the new vocational training law, this new workshop school, the Dobbantó programme, will, in my opinion or I hope, be more effective than the Bridge Programme for Vocational Training, in which I have failed to give you the courage to reduce early school leaving or unqualified school leaving. But I would like to say, not pointing backwards, that I looked at the data, Eurostat 2008 data: 11.7% during your governance, and by 2020 we agreed to reduce it to less than 10%. We're not there yet, but we may be able to reduce early school leaving with this new step. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2019-11-20-169	I would like to return the floor to my fellow Members, but on behalf of the Government, Mr Secretary of State has applied, so now Secretary Schanda has the opportunity to speak.
u2019-11-20-170	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I've been thinking about whether I should be involved at this stage of the debate, but I think it's going to be a debate. [[Attila Mesterházy: This is a new approach. Gergely Harvesto: Like this!]] If I speak too. Therefore, allow me to reflect with a few sentences on what has been said so far and then continue the debate. On the one hand, I would like to start by saying that the debate on this bill is a spooky reminder of the general debate of the bill a few weeks ago, perhaps two weeks ago, and we are opening up a lot of questions that we were talking about back then. I have to start right here with the speech by Mr Csányi, who, I think, I have also responded to the interpellation, I also responded to your interpellation on Monday and, in the context of the last legislative debate, we have discussed this issue in relation to the changes in the labour code and the civil service relationship. It affects everyone. Anyone who teaches in vocational training and works in an institution governed by the VET Act will, of course, be affected. There should not be two types of legal relationship in an institution. Basically, there have been several instances and a number of comments have come up with a transition to the Labour Code. This is like creating something strange, while teachers are still employed under the labour code in a large part of vocational training institutions, since in the case of ecclesiastical or foundational institutions, working and teaching colleagues are still subject to the labour code. [[19.20]] In addition, it would be a strange situation if students were to undergo dual training, pay wages, and their teachers were not subject to the Labour Code. So here, I think this also confirms that this change is necessary. The issue of wage bargaining has arisen, we believe that based on individual performance it is worth determining the wages of teachers and raising them significantly, believing in autonomy, and believing that freedom and responsibility go hand in hand, and that in the framework of wage bargaining institutions and teachers are given considerable freedom to reach a fair agreement. In addition, this will allow wages to be brought closer to market conditions and to involve the best possible professionals from the market in the world of education. I think that this is, in itself, a reason enough to make this change. It has also been said that we are not putting money into it. Well, I think 35 billion forints is a significant amount of resources and significant amounts of money. On average, as has been said several times, this allows for a 30% increase. Well said, Mr President, if you do not vote for these laws, you really do not contribute to the wage increase, you do not contribute to a flexible and XXI. It will not contribute to the development of a vocational training system in the 20th century and will not contribute to the adoption of a measure to ensure and promote the future of young people, and will not contribute to the achievement of a scholarship of 33 500 students this year, which will be above 110 thousand in 2021. That's what they said and say no to with the support of the two VET laws. Significant questions have also been raised in the case of the Socialist Group. Congresswoman Kunhalmi said that this law was a return to the pre-2010 period, something like that. There are two reasons for this: on the one hand, I hope that you are wrong, because we would have done something wrong if that were the case, and on the other hand, we did not have such an intention, and on the other hand, why you do not support it. So I don't understand this at all. Probably the claim itself does not fully cover reality. There was a question of schoolwork. I think it's not the time of the school obligation that matters, it's not the age that counts, it's the education. That is what this proposal is about, which was also included in the VET Act. We believe that there is a need for skills, and that not only the state, but also the family, the parents, has a responsibility. That is why the regulation that this House has already adopted is good. In addition, a question has been raised here regarding the quality of vocational training. The thing is, there are techniques from which 90 percent of students can continue to study at university. Now, these are, aren't they, they're still vocational schools, and we're proud of that, and that's why we don't think it's a good way to identify vocational training or even techniques by breaking down. Bridge programmes are indeed being launched for bridge programmes, but this is because the Drumbantó programme is more effective and effective, but this will be introduced and strengthened. We also heard a lot of misunderstandings about private institutions. I have to say once again here that the aim was simplification, there has been consultation, as has already been said here with Waldorf and with the representatives of the alternative institutions. An agreement has been reached, and today it has been published in the press that everyone has calmed down, and there is no problem here, and there is no risk here. Two minor technical amendments to the law may be submitted to make it more reassuring, but there is basically no substantial risk for any institution. This is confirmed by the fact that not only did the Waldorf Association attend this meeting, but György Horn was also present on behalf of the Association of Foundation and Private Schools, who, let's say, cannot be accused of conservative bias. And he also called the situation comforting, by the way. I also have to reject and protect public institutions, that it is not only in private institutions that you can learn to read and write, and I don't think anyone meant it. Mr Harvester also asked a lot of questions and made interesting comments. The fact is that the government respects Parliament, we are arguing with you here tonight, and if we had to amend this proposal, we would have done so. And I wouldn't talk about a crazy rush, I wouldn't talk about it. I'd rather talk about how we love and can work. The separation of vocational training has also been identified, and this is justified by competitiveness, and let us not forget that vocational training is not only for students under 18 years of age, but for example for more than 50,000 adults a year in the VET system. So I think that there are serious professional reasons behind the separation from the system of public education. I also have to decline that there would be any kind of wallet fight between the individual wallets. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Close cooperation is apparent when, in cooperation with the public education area, a joint proposal is submitted by the innovation portfolio. So I think that there is nothing here that Congressman believes. And the only reason we can't have a wallet fight is because then, in the next point you indicated, we're going to create new powers for the Minister of EMMI in the proposal that is now in front of the Parliament. Vocational training, adult education and higher education thank you very much and are in the right place in one place, because these areas are closely linked to the economic area, how we can make Hungary more competitive, and I therefore think that it is in the right place with the wallet which, in addition to innovation and technology, is responsible for a significant part of economic issues. I would also like to reassure Mrs Krisztina Hohn. The situation of alternative and private institutions has already been discussed here. If you look at the ame.hu website, there is a statement from the association, and I quote:. We have a reassuring agreement for all parties. Then we're okay, I hope. Basically, for the rest of your comments, let me have one or two more reactions. A simultaneous amendment is necessary because of the adult education law and the strong link with the VET law. This is why the amendment of the Adult Education Act was added to the VET Act, and on the other hand, in relation to the measurement of competence, I would just like to say quickly that this is a helpful story, anonymous and offers students all kinds of offers, not only technology, not only a vocational training institution, but also a high school. So this is a recommendation and basically a support service for students. The fact is that it is difficult to respond to Mr Tordai's speech, because we should try to stick to professional issues in the debate on a professional proposal. I felt a little weird that, while he was dissuading us, let's say, this does not stand aside from his custom, and then he began to protect us from the other opposition representatives about what was in the exact regulation, and my suggestion is that we leave those personal debates that were still in his speech at a different time. [[19.30]] Our proposal, which concerns how we can create the legislative environment for alternative institutions, will simplify, give more room for manoeuvre and deregulate, which, as I said in my initial speech, I can only confirm again. And when we amend a law, and here, in this legislative package, the amendment of the Public Education Act appears, we regularly look at what other changes are needed in this area, and we look at what other issues are worth highlighting. This is why the amendments to the Public Education Act are also here in order, for example, to spare you from unnecessary work, as you requested in your speech. We thank the rapporteur for his speech, we have heard valuable thoughts, and I would just like to say that, if there is no legislation in the directive, we will, of course, ask for the views of nationalities. We are not going to keep this at a legislative level, and we want to deregulate this as well as many other issues. At the same time, however, we expect the views of nationalities in the same way that has already happened. I would only respond to Mr Mesterházy's speech with one sentence. Here, he raised the question of girls' career choices, which was the last time we had an interesting... no debate, because basically we agreed, and I can also agree that it is important that we are able to attract girls to professions where fewer people are currently present. We have a number of programs for this, and I told you this last time: TEK-girls, event series, Girls' Day, robotics club with the participation of girls, what's the score? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, So we have a number of measures that want to address this issue exactly. I would just like to say in reply to Mrs Kunhalmi that the world is changing, but, as always, we are talking about a knowledge-based society, and it is simply necessary to touch the vocational training system because the economic environment has changed, unemployment figures have improved, there is practically a labour shortage, and the employment situation is quite different in Hungary today than in the past. This requires training our education system and further strengthening of the vocational training system accordingly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-20-171	Thank you very much. We'll go back to the comments of our representatives. Congressman Attila Mesterházy is the first in the line of Members seeking a normal word, MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-172	Thank you very much. Let us rejoice because you have brought in a new style, Mr Secretary of State: you are taking part in the debate. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: This isn't the first time you've done this. I'll protect him!]] I was just glad and I welcome the fact that Mr Secretary of State is taking part in the debate because he has said something and thank you very much for giving us really substantive answers to the points. I would like to read to Győző Vinnai a few figures; you said that your work is so successful that now there are more people going to vocational training than to high school: The attractiveness of the various secondary school types is a good indicator of how students' application preferences are developing. According to September 2019, the High School, including eight- and six-year courses, is the most popular form of training. In the course of the 2018-19 high school application, 50 percent of the students ranked this type of school in the first place. So it's either more than 100 percent in Hungarian, or it's not true what you said in this respect. So no more people have chosen this training. To my comment, it would have been a good introduction, what Csaba Nagy said, he said that this amendment was a nice proposal, I would say that it was nice as a tractor or fried meat. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Because this amendment is all about, Mr Secretary of State, admitting that they have done it wrong so far. It is not that the situation in the labour market has changed over a year, and suddenly it has been recognised what is happening in Hungary, it is a much longer trend that you can see here, rather than a reference to the fact that it is simply because of the need to make the amendment now I think that the third one, so you are slowly in such a permanent reform of vocational training, which was typical of us when we were steering, so in Hungarian, I see that you are admitting that you have done it wrong, and now you want to make some kind of change in this respect. You mentioned it, and here the colleagues made fun of it, here I heard from the fidesz lines when Ágnes Kunhalmi said that they were talking about a work-based society. Well, I remember when the Prime Minister kept talking about wanting a work-based society, and they offered me a wrench and a screwdriver. At the time, I think they had a working class, I do not know if they are now, and it is true that there is no contradiction between a knowledge-based society and a work-based society, I fully agree with that, but that is not what you are talking about. And Ágnes Kunhalmi spoke of a change of attitude in this regard. However, it must be acknowledged that it is difficult in today's world to assign to economic needs, to demand what training needs to be spent and what training needs to be organised. It is often said that demand-driven vocational training is needed, but it is very difficult to figure out, it is a fact and it is true what demand must be met within a three-, five- or even ten-year perspective, because automation and robotics, which has already been discussed, create completely new jobs, or simply eliminate and make certain jobs unnecessary. In this regard, I read an interesting number, which I may have said once in the debate, but the repetition is the mother of knowledge, that Hungarian workers in Hungary have an automatic activity of 49 percent of their working time, i.e. almost 50 percent of their working time. In English: the problem you want to solve is much bigger in the next period than we might think. Therefore, flexibility must be one of the most important features for the labour force, but the flexibility of the labour force certainly includes basic skills, so basic skills. It includes language learning, IT training, and it is not a coincidence that it is easier to find a place with graduation, because it can be read in a number of materials and statistics, and perhaps it was said here in the speech by Congressman Vinnai that if a person has a graduation, he has a higher chance of getting a job and a higher salary. That is why we also say that it was completely harmful and wrong to abolish the age limit of 18 from the point of view of the obligation to study. We think it would be easier to recognise and restore the situation clearly and clearly, rather than to achieve the same goal with such stealthy solutions. [[19.40]] But in addition to this flexibility, there is certainly a need for dual training to be a supportive corporate culture. I've talked to a lot of parents and students, and yes, while theoretically speaking it sounds good, and it's a good practice-oriented dual training system, but in many places, companies think it's a nuisance for them, it's a pain in the ass, and it's more difficult to go to a good job for children, while otherwise, if they go to work in an internship, it certainly increases the opportunity to get a job for a young person. So in Hungarian, somehow, the Hungarian corporate sector should also be encouraged to, if they already have their expectations set out, if they already say what kind of vocational training they think is needed, help them to develop this supportive corporate culture from the other side. Thank you very much, Mr President, that is all I wanted to say.
u2019-11-20-173	Thank you very much. I am asking Mrs Kunhalmi, as she is coming in every category to speak in two minutes or as a normal speaker. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Two minutes.]] In two minutes, Congresswoman Kunhalmi will have the floor.
u2019-11-20-174	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai's intervention:]] Everything I can think of just to get a word in. [[Defiance.]] [[Dr. Winner Vinnai's intervention:]] Everything I can think of just to get a word in. (Faintness.) I'd like to respond to two things. The dropout was 10,5 in 2010 indeed, now 12.5 percent. 2020 is here on our necks, growing and horribly... (To interrupt Dr. Winner Vinnai :) Yeah, in your county, in vocational training, it's almost 30 percent. How the hell are we gonna reduce this so fast, what you said? ! We shouldn't have increased this any more. [[The president's ringing the bell. Interjection: Don't talk dirty.]] My apologies. I didn't think it was in this category, but I understand and apologize. However, I would like to ask you that vocational training, public education and higher education should be part of a single governance system, and I said that a ministry, a separate Ministry of Education, should be subject to it. I found an amendment hidden here, which is what it is, and my question is related to this: the 2012 XXX on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums. Act No. 14 In paragraph 2 (f), the text of the Minister responsible for Culture and Education shall be replaced by the text of the Minister responsible for Culture and the Minister responsible for Education. Does this mean, perhaps, that we are moving towards becoming an independent Ministry of Education and Culture? We'd like that.
u2019-11-20-175	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK!
u2019-11-20-176	Thank you very much. We are beginning to talk about the substantive issues, although I am afraid that they will only be transferred to the current bill, but after the Secretary of State has allowed himself to put the bill in a broader perspective and context, we will do the same for ourselves. So I have to say that if we agree that early school leaving is a problem, if I understand it correctly, we all agree on that, then tell me why I am scratching it with my right hand in the way they want to solve it. Why do they solve it like that? Because I understand what you're saying, Secretary of State, that it's not about 18 years, it's about getting the first skill. By the way, it would be a negotiating point to say that the obligation to study lasts until first qualification, but that's not what you're saying. You say the parent can handle it. How does the unfortunate solve it, when the obligation to teach is not only to send a parent to school, but also to have a compulsory care school? ! It's also about not getting the kid out of school. You must have missed that. I will now tell you that we have tabled an amendment, together with our fellow opposition Members, which included exactly the other side of this measure. It contained exactly how, by the way, to ensure that children could remain in this vocational school system until first qualification was acquired. This was not supported by the government, and my fellow Members voted against it. From here on, forgive me, but trying to put a burden on parents is not the solution, but part of the problem. I could also say that it's a false solution, but that might be offensive, and I'm trying to live up to your high expectations. Secondly, to be honest, is it a pointless argument that Minister Palkovics has said a how should I say it? well-sounding, but unexploiting, claim to apply to vocational high school and high school. I have to tell you a very simple fact. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Facts are stubborn things.]] The facts are stubborn, and it is true that more people have always started their studies in vocational high school and then in vocational high school as in general high school in the ninth grade. There's always more people in high school than in high school or high school. I'll tell you why, because there's six graders and eight graders. As a result, this situation, which you have now admired, Minister, I understand, because you have just received vocational training, you are pleased, there is no problem with that, and this has always been the case. At the same time, this does not prove that vocational training has become more attractive, because it has even decreased at the same time in vocational school, and it is now called a vocational school, but of course not the number of children walking. The proportion of applicants for vocational training did not increase, and the proportion of those who started their studies did not increase. The proportion of high school graduates has increased, by the way, and let us be happy together, because we agree, my fellow Member from Fidesz said that it is a goal, because the labour market appreciates it. So I'm saying that there should be no misunderstanding, that is, that this has increased in the vocational school, and that the proportion of beginners who started their studies in normal high school has increased, but the proportions have not fallen, nothing has changed significantly in this area. To say that this is not a political issue, I think we would all be happy if a lot of people went to high school giving graduations, and we already left it in the hands of parents to decide which child vocational training is for, and which one is not for vocational training. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-177	Congressman Bence of Turdai in two minutes, Dialogue!
u2019-11-20-178	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked for the floor because my fellow opposition Members praised the Secretary of State a little too much. [[Defiance.]] I am truly honored that you will come to us at all and argue with us, but you have not provided any meaningful answers, so I would like to ask you one specific question. If you go to the kormany.hu website, including the document menu, and there you choose the type of document, activity data, including draft legislation, why is it that the ITM was able to issue 3 pieces of draft legislation in 2019, i.e. three pieces of legislation for social opinion? So, if you're going to do a lot of regulation, a lot of interest, a lot of stakeholder groups, and if your abilities, let's just say, keep you in a low capacity... you know what I mean? [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government benches.]] You don't understand. So, if you can continue to demonstrate your inability to govern, why not ask trade unions, professional organisations, parental organisations and generally everyone involved in the vocational training system in advance, not God, student organisations or student representative organisations? So give us the opportunity to do so, and do not exaggerate it, do not have to listen to the trade union cry for help or the cry for help from alternative schools, if you really have no bad intentions. So again, why didn't this social consultation happen?
u2019-11-20-179	Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, in two minutes!
u2019-11-20-180	Thank you very much. Mr President, It is only because of my fellow Member from Turda that I say, for the record, that irony was felt in my voice when I praised Mr Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]]
u2019-11-20-181	You see what it's like to be praised by Congressman Masterházy? [[Defiance.]] Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK, two minutes.
u2019-11-20-182	What I would like to say, on the other hand, is that I resented the criticism of Mr Tordai, and I must say to him that, since I am an educator of my basic qualifications, I am also pleased with the least result, the least progress, and I know that praise is always more motivated than a scolding, so thank you for speaking to us, Mr Secretary of State. [[Delightfulness and sporadic applause in opposition benches.]] Even if, unfortunately, and basically for that reason, I asked for a word, it has factual shortcomings, but it will certainly replace them in the following. However, according to the Public Education Act, which has applied to them so far, they enjoy the same rights as teachers in the state system. Thank you for drawing attention to the fact that not only teachers working in the state institution lose their status as civil servants with this amendment, but also pushed teachers and teachers working in the ecclesiastical and non-religious foundations, in vocational training, not only in the state system. On the other hand, he says that it is absurd that students will be employed and that teachers would have been or would have stayed in the status of civil servants. It's absurd, but it's absurd because why on earth do you have to put students in employment? That's not for the training to take place in it. There was already a status, a legal form, that could have been carved on. [[19.50]] It's a formal thing like this to show that there's really, really, really dual training. That doesn't mean it has anything to do with employment, but it's good to brag about it. And by the way, that and that's the bigger problem, to reduce the protection of students in the workplace. And that's not good. Finally, no absurdity, let me tell you, there are still a number of public employees and workers working together in a number of public institutions today, which does not cause any dramatic problems. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-183	Thank you. As a normal speaker, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP.
u2019-11-20-184	No, it won't be normal. [[Defiance.]]
u2019-11-20-185	Don't judge yourself before you speak. [[Defiance.]]
u2019-11-20-186	I would like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, did you say that everyone is going to receive a raise, whether they are teaching a vocational course or teaching a public education course, what if they pass a public education class from a high school to a teacher who is, by the way, part of the teacher's career model, for a period or a year or two, what will happen? Thank you.
u2019-11-20-187	Dear fellow Members, I must ask now that someone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Mr Schanda, Secretary of State, is the word. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-188	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I was worried that Congressman Attila Mesterházy was serious about praise; I was reassured that this was not the case. And thank you for your kind concern for me. I'm grateful, let's leave it at that. [[Defiance.]] I would like to say to Mrs Kunhalm that leaving school without leaving school is indeed a very important issue. That is why the solution contained in the adopted VET Act is important, and on which Mr Arató also made statements, i.e. that we also show the responsibility of parents in the law, we make it important and stress that the family, as the most important unit of society, does have a responsibility in teaching and educating children, and that this responsibility must be exercised at least until the first profession or part of the profession is acquired. I think that this change in itself will significantly reduce the number of children leaving school without a degree. I trust that in a few years' time, when we are going to debate here in Parliament, you will see that the regulation that the majority of Fidesz-KDNP voted for by adopting the VET Act was good. I can't set up a Ministry of Education. Here we are only proposing a clarification of a responsibilities in the Hungaricum Act. Madam Congresswoman, I think you already have a proposal for a minister, but for the time being you do not need to live with it, the governance structure that we are seeing now is an excellent way of meeting professional expectations. On the subject of Mr Arató's speech, let me say, however, that the number of students admitted to the vocational school has increased nominally and per cent compared to the previous year. [[Gergely Harvester: Half a percent.]] That's the thing, it's grown. [[Gergely Harvestó: Half a percent.]] I would also like to underline and stress that there is no way to get any 16-year-olds out of school right now, there is no reason to terminate student status because someone is no longer required to study. This is a clear and clear regulatory situation, which is currently in place. That's the expression the congressman used to use to add to his parents. Honestly, I don't think that would really be an extra burden for the parents. When each parent becomes a parent, he accepts that he is responsible for his own child and wants his own child to be as good as possible. That's what we showed in the law, and that's what we underlined. And on the other hand, the state gives every opportunity and support to allow families to live with parental responsibility. I would like to point out to Mr Tordai that social debate is possible not only through websites but also in other ways. [[Gergely Harvestó: In the last week.]] The VET Act and the related legislative changes were discussed in a long preparatory phase. For almost a year, we have negotiated the VET 4.0 strategy, which clearly defined what legislative changes we would like to make otherwise. So we had a meeting. And the fact is that the legislative proposal is available on Parliament's website, and we were also open to discussions afterwards. We were saddened to find that there was a negotiation that the union asked us to coordinate, and then it didn't come. This happens, and we take note of that, of course. Mr. Harvester in connection with his employment. Let me add, however, that teachers have an employment relationship, and a number of regulations are different from the rules on teachers working in the state institution in the case of ecclesiastical and foundation institutions. And to Mrs Kunhalmi, I can only say that the teacher's career model can be volunteered even when a person is teaching in a technique. It will be the personal decision of a particular educator that he wants to be a part of the teacher career model, he wants to take the qualification exams, and so on, and when he goes back, just to give you an exact answer from a technique to a high school faculty. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: What if it happens in parallel?]] , you can continue to apply the pedagogical career model accordingly. I hope that was understandable, Congresswoman. Thank you very much. I thank everyone for their active participation in the debate. I thank the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP for their support for the bill. I also thank the speaker for this. And I thank you for all the professional comments and contributions made in the debate, and I ask for the support of the law in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-189	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending individual laws for harmonisation purposes will follow until closure. The government referral is T/8041. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Schanda, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-190	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The legislative proposal before you is a priority for the fulfilment of our country's legal harmonisation obligations. With regard to the amendment of the Road Transport Act, a number of issues need to be addressed, including the importance of this sector in the development of a country's infrastructure. However, it should also be borne in mind that the provision of local transport is also of paramount importance. The provision of local public transport in cities of economic and tourist importance, such as Budapest and metropolitan cities, is of national and social interest. In order to enforce this interest, the amendment of the Local Taxes Act creates consistency between the Law on Local Governments of Hungary and the Law on the Distribution of Resources between the Metropolitan Municipality and District Authorities in the field of financing local public transport. [[20.00]] In addition, further clarification of the three legislation will ensure the long-term, safe maintenance and financing of local public transport for the Metropolitan Municipality and the municipalities that voluntarily carry out the task. The Act on Local Local Governments of Hungary defines the provision of local public transport as a public task to be performed locally, which is specified in the Passenger Transport Services Act so that the local government or association of local authorities can be a voluntary task. In the capital city, however, it is mandatory for the Municipality to organise local public passenger transport services. The amendment of the law on local authorities is essentially necessary, while at the same time clarifying the act on the allocation of funds, to ensure consistency between the provisions of the laws listed above and to clarify the system of provision of tasks and funding. To this end, according to the bill, the Municipality of Metropolitan City must first use the amount necessary to carry out the local community transport task from the shared tax revenue and, in the case of other municipalities, local tax revenues constitute the financing of public transport. On the basis of the bill, the local government must first use the business tax revenue to finance the local community transport task if it carries out such a task. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Road Transport Act includes, inter alia, an obligation to harmonise EU legislation. With regard to bi- and tri-wheel vehicles and quadricycles, as well as agricultural and forestry vehicles, the Transport Authority is already designated to carry out the designation and market surveillance tasks of the technical service carrying out the test, inspection or evaluation of the vehicle. By transposing the published EU Regulation, the same tasks for motor vehicles and their trailers are added, extending them to all categories of road vehicles. The law on road transport registration, the law on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance and the amendment of certain tax-related laws are intended to transfer the technical specifications necessary for new types of registrations. The issue of registration plates introduced on Day 1 of May 2004 with a combination of the current three letters and three numbers will reach the maximum number of license plates that can be issued, and it is therefore appropriate to introduce new format registration plates from 1 January 2021. On the one hand, the new format registration numbers will be one character longer, providing the character set for a longer period, and on the other hand, temporary registration numbers will be merged with the regulation. The Aviation Act has undergone several deregulation amendments over recent years, which have repealed a number of empowering provisions. The purpose of the current amendment is to clarify the legally authorised provisions, the general rules for the production of aircraft, repair and maintenance of aircraft, the training of air transport personnel with official authorisation and certification, maintenance and suspension of type and certificate of airworthiness. The amendment of the Water Transport Act creates the conceptual background necessary for the activity in order to establish a holiday boat and includes the legal basis for the processing of data in the passenger register for safety reasons during the holiday. It is also necessary, in accordance with the 2012 Strasbourg Convention on Restrictions on Inland Navigation, to establish the scope of the ship liability insurance contract, to regulate the appropriate conditions and requirements of the insurance relationship. This is also necessary in the light of the fact that the applicable provisions of the Act on liability insurance cannot be complied with by insurers and are therefore suspended until 1 February 2020 by ministerial decree. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the amendment of the Rail Transport Act and the Law on the Professional Investigation of Air, Rail and Water Accidents and Other Transport Events is to transpose the technical pillar of the so-called fourth railway package, which includes several new EU legislation on the establishment of a single European railway area and is therefore managed in a package, which is also a legal harmonisation obligation. The political pillar was already transposed in 2018. On the basis of the fourth railway package, with a view to establishing a single European railway area, from 16 June 2020 they will be granted authorisation for the placing on the market of railway vehicles, the so-called single railway safety certificate for railway undertakings whose service area covers one or more Member States, under the authority of the national safety authorities, by the railway agency of the European Union. National safety authorities shall continue to carry out authorisations for the placing in service of energy, infrastructure and track-side control, guidance and signalling subsystems in their territory, the issuing of railway safety authorisations for infrastructure managers, the management of vehicle and track records, and, where the service area is within the Member State concerned and specifically requested by the applicant, the tasks relating to the issue of the marketing vehicle authorisation, the vehicle type authorisation and the single railway safety certificate. Dear Parliament, The legislative amendments will bring about the level of the transposition law, which will allow the creation of implementing regulations, government regulations and ministerial decrees after its publication. The amendment to the Railway Act also includes other parts, such as NIF Zrt. broadening its trust rights to facilitate the conduct of investments in railway builders, in order to ensure clean property conditions. Within this framework, NIF Zrt. may acquire trust rights not only in the case of expropriation, or in the case of a purchase substitute for expropriation, but also, for example, in the case of a free transfer of assets. In addition, the property elements of the future GSM-R project with the amendment will be owned by the State even if they are GYSEV Zrt. they are carried out on railway infrastructure owned by it. By amending the Railway Act, the tasks of the Railway Examination Centre will be separated from 1 January 2020. The tasks of organising railway examinations remain with the Railway Examination Centre, which will be integrated into the Transport Performance and Testing Centre Nonprofit Kft., while the further training of the examiners and instructors will be carried out by the KTI Institute of Transport Sciences Nonprofit Kft. is carried out by a railway training methodological centre. Dear Parliament, The proposal for further amendments to the draft law aims, inter alia, to amend the law on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major national importance including the rules on priority transport infrastructure investment and the toll law relating to the transport of vehicles subject to to tolls with a maximum authorised mass of more than 3.5 tonnes. The bill also serves to ensure a specific information and consultation obligation for investments that are priority for the national economy in the EU Directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. Under the proposal, the provisions of the law allowing the granting of a building permit before the granting of an environmental permit are repealed. In order to allow the construction authorisation procedure to start during the environmental authorisation procedure, it is necessary to regulate the compulsory suspension of the construction authorisation procedure until the environmental permit is issued. The amendment also ensures that, in the event of a trace of the transport infrastructure investment defined by the Government in the regulation, no multiple payment is made for the limitation of ownership and the loss of ownership if the expropriation takes place after the restriction. [[20.10]] Dear Parliament, Member States of the European Union will be obliged to open their bus and coach markets to other providers in the Member States. In order to fulfil this obligation, Hungary will soon issue a tender for the selection of local bus operators. The public service contracts currently in force expire on 31 December 2019 and the old public service providers provide the public service as an emergency measure until the new public service providers are selected. In order to clarify the rules relating to the operation of bus and coach stations, it is necessary to transfer the amendments to the Passenger Transport Act. In order to fulfil the operational obligations, it was necessary to designate the operating bodies and clarify their responsibilities. The draft regulation is based on the current practice, according to which local authorities have already performed the de-blurring, cleaning of the stops within a residential area, and the operator of Magyar Közút Zrt., the operator of the stops, will perform this task outside the residential area. This will be legally settled with the same content. The amendment of the Toll Act is intended to ensure consistency with the time limits set for the official procedure laid down in the Road Transport Act. Dear Parliament, As you can see and hear, or, as you can read, the bill before you is primarily intended to transpose legislation and directives, particularly those of the European Union, for the purposes of harmonisation. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-20-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-192	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, On 12 November 2019 the Ministry of Innovation and Technology submitted T/8041 on the amendment of certain laws for harmonisation purposes. Legislative proposal No. 1 to comply with our legal harmonisation obligations arising from our important obligations in the Member States of the European Union. The bill also covers a number of aspects of the law on road transport, car taxation, air transport, water transport. Furthermore, by amending the law on rail transport and the Act on the professional investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport and other transport events, Hungary will implement the provisions of the technical pillar of the fourth railway package requiring a level of law in order to ensure that government and ministerial regulations can be drawn up afterwards. In addition, the amendment addresses issues related to rail infrastructure developments, such as the National Infrastructure Developer Zrt., in order to make better use of EU funds. settlement of his or her trust rights. The amendment also requires separation between the tasks of the Railway Examination Centre and its organisation in terms of testing and further training. It is important to note that, with regard to the technical pillar of the fourth railway package, the European Union Railway Agency and the Transport Authority have delivered presentations and disseminations to a wide range of railway professionals at least once a year in the framework of free presentations from 2016 onwards, where the colour of the railway profession was present. In addition to harmonising legislation, the amendments contain further clarification and clarification provisions in order to ensure efficient implementation of transport infrastructure investments. Dear House, The government is committed to developing transport and logistics infrastructure. What is more, the government will spend HUF 5000 billion on road and rail development by 2022, strengthening the country's logistics position, modernising more than a thousand kilometres of rail tracks from the HUF 1500 billion framework for rail investments, and increasing the length of electrified lines. The amendment of the Act on Accelerating and Simplification of Investment of Priority Economic Interests is also intended to ensure the provision of information and consultation obligations in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment for investments of national priority. In the case of such investments, the 42-day deadline for the EIA procedure should be increased to 60 days. However, changes in the deadline do not result in delays in investments. In the case of transport infrastructure investments of major importance for the national economy, it is currently possible to issue a building permit before the environmental permit becomes final. In order to ensure full consistency with the Directive in the case of these major transport infrastructure investments, the provisions of the Law allowing the granting of a construction permit before the granting of an environmental permit are repealed. In order to allow the construction authorisation procedure to start during the environmental authorisation procedure, it is necessary to regulate the compulsory suspension of the construction authorisation procedure until the environmental permit is issued. The amendment also ensures that, in the event of a trace of the transport infrastructure investment defined by the Government in the regulation, no multiple payment is made for the limitation of ownership and the loss of ownership if it is expropriated after the restriction, taking into account that the creation of protection and expropriation are separated in time. It is therefore justified to adapt it to the actual injury of interest. The value of the limitation compensation will have to be deducted from the current value of real estate when the property is acquired. The fact is that this package of laws, which will regulate the primary use of local taxes on public transport related to public transport, will trigger a political debate, which will lead to certain disputes between us. Dear House, As in recent years, the government will continue to devote significant budgetary resources to transport infrastructure development. These objectives, as the proposed legislation does, have the full support of the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-20-193	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, lead speaker of the Jobbik is coming.
u2019-11-20-194	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We have a bill for harmonisation which we could simply say why we should not support, because in many cases our obligation is to harmonise EU legislation, of course all parliamentary parties support it, and the rest and the rest. We could sit down nicely, and we could be glad they've prepared it nicely, and it's all put together. And indeed, if we read through it, we can see what we are dealing with, definitions of general transport, EU legislation on harmonisation, clarification, regulation of cruises, new regulation of license plates, strengthening traffic safety, air transport, road transport, rail transport, type licences, cooperation of transport authorities with other bodies, compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. Yeah, well, it's really something that has to be in a law like that. However, there are some sections in it that are difficult to put into harmonisation, but here the Secretary of State has tried to do an experiment on how it fits, how it will be harmonised. We don't know if he'll accept it or not. I think that the Fidesz-KDNP will obviously accept that this is part of the concept of harmonisation. But if we just look at this, the address often doesn't match the content, we're used to that. But it's a little more than that. After all, this bill for harmonisation is a bit political. The political relations that changed on 13 October came to fruition. If it wasn't for October 13th, I think this bill would be all about harmonisation and nothing but professional issues. Thus, however, a small restriction for the municipalities was included, and here we can mostly talk about the Municipality of Metropolitan City. I mean, there's an ominous section of this. It's 36/A. Section 7 is replaced by the following: §2 of this bill, according to which the revenue from local business tax must first be allocated to the task of local public transport. I think this is very interesting, because if there were no problems with the capital's budget and there was plenty of public transport, and the state should not have to side with the serious billions, then there would be nothing wrong with that. [[20.20]] I mean, it doesn't matter if there's money in a budget, if there's money in everything, if it's paid for, or if it's paid for, it's all paid for. However, we see that, for example, in 2018, there was a loss of nearly HUF 10 billion in public transport in the capital, which obviously has to be financed from something, and this is probably not going to be any different in the future, as public transport in the capital is basically operating at a loss. Then there was an agreement previously between István Tarlós and the Prime Minister, which agreed that the government would not without agreement submit a bill concerning the capital city, i.e. Budapest. Prime Minister said that he would, for his part, keep this obligation in relation to the new city administration. We see that this was not quite a success, because, as we have learned, there has been no consultation in any form, this proposal has been submitted as a surprise. What we can clearly see is that this will indeed affect the capital's budget very seriously, and indeed the serious billions that appear as deficits, which the government has often replaced, will be missing from somewhere. I very much hope that the goal is not to have the capital's budget slashed and attempted in some way, as even a budget deficit of this size could ruin Budapest's budget. It is clear that one of the most important sources of revenue in the capital is the trade tax, and it is very important for the municipalities to have the kind of autonomy to have their own revenue so far, without such restrictions. So that's why this is a very harsh attack on municipal rights. As a result of this war, we obviously do not know this, but what we see is that the declaration of war has arrived from the government against the capital. The legislation will also require greater contributions from the districts, because it will also deal with this and rural metropolitan areas may be affected by this legislation, so it cannot be supported in any way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-20-195	Congressman József Attila Móring, lead speaker of the KDNP, notary of the Parliament, please.
u2019-11-20-196	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to draw attention to a few things, and I would just like to highlight a few things. Law I of 1988 on road transport is amended in order to transpose the relevant EU regulations in Hungary. The amendment sets out, at the statutory level, the necessary technical service designation and market surveillance tasks for which the proposal designates the Transport Authority, as required by the Union Regulation, to carry out the inspection, inspection or evaluation of the vehicle. The Transport Authority has already carried out these tasks for two- and three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles, as well as for agricultural and forestry vehicles. However, this task has now been extended to motor vehicles and their trailers as the EU Regulation emerges and therefore covers all categories of road vehicles. The amendment settles that the law 20. In the payment of a fine within the meaning of paragraph 6 of Section 6 of this Article, the payer should not be charged with the cost of payment, but would be borne by the State. Another element of the proposal is LXII of 2000 on water transport. amendment of the law, which creates the possibility of sailing on holiday in Hungary, which is popular throughout Europe. Holiday boating is the tourist possibility of recreational inland navigation, which can be carried out without a boatmaster's permission, on board ships offering accommodation in a suitable holiday area. For security reasons and in order to facilitate the rapid and effective implementation of search and rescue operations, it is necessary to establish by law that a passenger list is drawn up for those taking part in the holiday. The name, age, gender and nationality of persons travelling on board the ship shall be entered in the passenger log of the holiday vessel. The passenger register shall, if necessary, be transferred to the search and rescue services for the purpose of carrying out search and rescue operations. Personal data shall be kept in the Passenger Name Record at least for the duration of the journey or for the duration of the search and rescue, and shall then be deleted. Currently, the summer boat does not exist as a legal concept in Hungary. Ships used for holiday in Western Europe also qualify as recreational craft according to domestic legislation, which require an international pleasure boat driver qualification. In order to be subject to provisions other than small-machine ships, it is necessary to define, in the light of international practice, the concept of a holiday boat, which is a smaller set within the small-machine category. The summer boat is a recreational craft with a length not exceeding 15 metres and a maximum deadwater speed not exceeding 15 km/h. The 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport The aim of the amendment of the Act is to establish a single European railway area. The Railway Safety Directive sets out the rights and obligations of railway market operators more widely than previously, with regard to the promotion and maintenance of safety in rail transport. On the basis of the interoperability Directive, the railway undertaking will carry out the installation of railway vehicles itself, with the involvement of the infrastructure manager concerned, and the authorisation to place railway vehicles on the market and the type authorisation of the rolling stock will be considered to be a technical authorisation. The Railway Safety Directive sets out the rights and obligations of railway market operators to promote and maintain safety in rail transport more widely than previously, and re-regulates the provisions on railway safety certificates and authorisations. From 16 June 2020, the European Union Railway Agency shall normally issue a single railway safety certificate with the involvement of the Transport Authority to railway undertakings whose service area covers one or more Member States of the European Union. The Transport Authority shall act if the railway company intends to operate only within the territory of Hungary, or if the railway vehicle or vehicle type is intended to be placed on the market only within the territory of Hungary, and the applicant has not chosen the procedure of the European Union Railway Agency. Under the provisions of the Railway Safety Directive, the possibility of an appeal is necessary in the context of the single safety certificate and the vehicle authorisation procedure. It is also necessary to provide that the possibility of an appeal is granted to the client only in specific cases, as provided for in the Directive. Furthermore, the purpose of the bill is to provide the builder with the possibility to request an official investigation and a decision taken by an authority in the case of investment in transport infrastructure where it would not otherwise be necessary under professional law. The proposal provides for procedural obligations not only in the case of authorisation but also in the case of procedures for amending the authorisation. By amending the Railway Transport Act, Hungary will implement the provisions of the technical pillars of the fourth railway package which require a legal level in order to ensure that government and ministerial regulations can be drawn up in order to ensure full transposition. The amendment also addresses issues related to rail infrastructure development in order to make better use of EU funds. In view of the above, the KDNP fraction will support the submitted bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-20-197	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varga, head speaker of the MSZP! [[20.30]]
u2019-11-20-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, it's not the first salad law the Parliament has been negotiating here in the last few days, it's not the last. What I would like to say, Mr Secretary of State, is that politics must also have courage, that these salad laws could be rearranged, that the individual elements of these laws should be grouped in a slightly different way. They could have submitted a salad law, which, say, would have been entitled: certain laws concerning the amendment of the municipal elections to retortions due to the negative results of Fidesz. [[Lajos Korózs: Yay! Delight and applause in the opposition benches.]] It could have been one of these, one of these, because we can hear a lot of such introductions, that we are complying with legal harmonisation, very important obligations of the European Union. Yes, I would not touch on the elements of this legislation that you and the pro-government speakers have said, because that is obviously what 95 percent of the legislation is about, about tasks that we have to carry out, but there is an element in this package that clearly affects local governments, an element that will clearly be an additional burden for local authorities in the context of the organisation of local community transport. My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, was quite right to say that this is a burden not only for the capital but also for other rural cities, obviously the most important burden for maintaining public transport is for the capital, and we are talking about state aid over 10 billion, which according to this amendment does not. I think that there is no danger of this situation, but that if we interpret the text literally and know the systems as these state-normative subsidies are granted to the municipalities, this will not be the case from here on out. As regards 2019, a decision has already been made, but I am afraid that you can even carry out a review of this, which could jeopardise the functioning of a large number of public transport companies in Hungary in the countryside. Obviously, these state aids are distributed year after year by year to your specialty, by the way, between the individual municipalities, there is a pattern in how this happens. I would also like to quote a short part of this statement:. When applying for support for local Community transport in 2019, the calculation method related to the justified costs is set out in the Guidelines on the determination of justified costs not covered by revenue for the purpose of uniform interpretation and calculation for service providers. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Tamás János Schanda is consulting with Dr. Zoltán Kovács.]] I'd love for you to listen, Mr. Secretary, by the way. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács is going to replace him.]] Because these companies are applying for justified costs that are not covered by revenue. It already explains to me that if a 100% municipal-owned company that organises community transport has a cost that is not covered by revenue, but the owner municipality must first use the local business tax to organise community transport, then what will it be possible to apply for from here. Because I think it's nothing. So the thing is, as these normative sources were distributed, they can't happen from here on out. By the way, I'm sensing some coherence gap in terms of next year, even though I have information that next year's resources have been allocated; there may be a kind of buffering of the problem, so that the legislative framework with which they will be able to keep local governments in check from the year 21, i.e. from the budget year 2021. We've been talking about Budapest, haven't we? Let me tell you that about 30 municipalities are affected by this issue, by the way, some are only affected by a few million forints, but there are some large county seats in rural areas that are very, very seriously affected by this issue, which I see here in the evening very quickly that Parliament wants to pass away, or at least at least the representatives of the government and the representative of the government, who are present. To say some cities: Miskolc, Szeged, Pécs, Debrecen, Kecskemét. Miskolc is affected by half a billion forints, about half a billion forints of state aid in this respect, which, I think, is essential for MVK Zrt. How it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how Unfortunately, my hometown is back in the press with a negative news: there is a very serious lack of bus drivers at the company. This is what we inherited from the previous Fidesz municipal administration, this is the case, so in the first weeks we had to face the fact that the company could not keep the schedule, there are flight delays overnight, which cause very serious disruptions in the local community transport obviously require very serious measures, a management of this crisis is taking place. What kind of message is it to a local government or a municipal company that after the municipal election, it's just, uh, how do I say it to you? didn't have a very positive political picture, threatening the municipalities to take away public support for public transport? This is a terrible story, and I don't think you should confuse it with how the social ticket supplement is, that's another hat, that's not it. This is public support for public transport, and in countless large rural cities and the capital, if these funds are not received by these municipalities, it will cause a very serious problem. Obviously, the local business tax should be used to cover these losses by the municipalities, and there is a chance that the municipalities that you like will receive funds from other branches that will be able to make up for the revenues that you will have to spend on community transport and otherwise keep those that you do not like in check. Complete this kind of retortional legislative policy! I was very hoping here a few weeks ago, after the municipal elections, I was encouraged to expect a kind of constructive cooperation and reflection, because these are professional issues, to organize people's everyday life, how local public transport works, is a professional issue, not a political issue. In other countries, they go straight to about three feet of public transport funding: one third of the passenger, one third of the local government and one third of the government. Now, if I can see it correctly, the government will slowly back out of this and come down from this story. How environmentally conscious that is, I wouldn't open that part of the conversation right now, but it's definitely not XXI. It's from the century. So this, I think we should definitely finish this. Many of your supporters also travel on buses and trams, so they live their everyday lives, so I ask you, Mr Secretary, to withdraw this part of the proposal. Sit down with the municipalities, talk to the capital, but I think and I can say about Miskolc that I can see that everyone is open to the opposition politicians and the newly elected government to organize MVK Zrt. otherwise. It's in the interest of everyone, of all miskolcs, Mr. Secretary of State. Please help me with this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-11-20-199	Thank you very much. We are now at the end of the keynote speeches, followed by two-minute speeches. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK!
u2019-11-20-200	[[Noise.]] I'm sorry, I'm gonna dig up the mike. [[Interjections, publicity in the opposition's ranks.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to add that this revenge doesn't make sense, because these cities also have fidesz citizens, and if the aim is to try to create a public mood against the new city leadership, where you have lost the election, that transport doesn't work, that flights don't get there, that there are fewer flights, that there aren't enough drivers in these services, that if you want to create the mood to make the new city leadership responsible, then on the one hand, the whole solution is immeasurably petitable, and on the other hand... So you can't look down on people like that. Now why should the municipality, the new administration, spend hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars on it instead of spending the money on anything else to explain, say, on leaflets thrown into mailboxes, who is responsible for thanking Viktor Orbán for this because of him the flights are thinning? So I think it's pointless, it doesn't go anywhere, it doesn't take the opposition voters apart, I mean, the camp unit, and I think by 2022, it's gonna bring you a lot more defeat than you just did on October 13th. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-201	László László Keresztes, Leader of the Group, LMP!
u2019-11-20-202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This is indeed an extremely important bill, so it is not possible to move over it too quickly. I myself will comment on the substantive proposal, but here, my fellow Members have quite seriously agreed to transport policy, the Secretary of State and also Mr Bányai. [[20.40]] I just want to ask you a quick question. It has been very, very long unsolved, and I look at the countryside a little bit at the funding of municipalities in this respect, that one of the most important public services is the maintenance of local public transport, and that various concepts have been heard of how the government will approach the solution, and there has been, I recall, some kind of survey by the Ministry of Interior with a view to taking over these municipal-owned companies, or in fact nationalising them to public transport companies. I asked this a lot of times, the last responses were very definite rebuttals, and it was not so long ago that we heard of a government decree, a government decision, that Minister Palkovics was given a task to work out the solution to the problem of financing municipal transport companies; something like this was seen here about a month and a half ago. My question to the Secretary of State: is that the solution? So the solution is to take away state aid? Or are they trying to point out various sources of municipal resources so that you can resolve this by not having enough resources so far? I also have a question for Congressman Bányai, but he is a pro-government Member, perhaps he is better informed than, let us say, the press colleagues. You've been ringing or talking about very serious transport developments. I have questions: what does the 1500 billion-dollar development mean? What's he putting out? What more important elements will he appear than what he mentioned? What will happen to the revival of national bus production, promised many times, but nowhere to be seen? How is the development of the vehicle stock of public transport companies coming along? And what will typically be the fate of the state of transport infrastructure in rural areas in extremely poor condition? So what changes, what developments can I expect? Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2019-11-20-203	Thank you very much. We will return to the speeches of the Members who have asked for the normal word. Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2019-11-20-204	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I can really pick up where my fellow Members left off: Friday 13th for Fidesz this October on Sunday [[Gábor Bányai applauds.]] And we see every trace of it here in this bill. [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you for a little attention. [[Tamás János Schanda: I'm listening.]] Tell me what the concept of task funding is, and tell me specifically what the practice of task funding in the municipal funding system is, because today we see that this does not work in any way in sufficient quality. I think it is worth a few words here to waste the amount of resources that Budapest receives in proportion to its GDP. And let me give you some data. Berlin's budget is HUF 9360 billion, this is a city of 3.5 million. Vienna's budget is HUF 4381 billion, it is a city of less than 2 million. Prague's budget is about HUF 1000 billion three times that of Budapest, with 1 million 300 thousand people living in Prague. Warsaw's budget is HUF 1322 billion, with 1.8 million inhabitants. Zagreb's budget amounts to 311 billion forints, some 800,000 people live here. Budapest is 2.5 times bigger than this, and about this amount can be compared with the capital budget. I think it is worth seeing how much of the budget these European cities manage in proportion to the GDP they produce. Berlin manages 22 percent of its GDP, from 15 percent of Vienna, Warsaw did not go very west, yes, sorry, I went east from 7.5 percent, from 7.1 percent of Prague, from more than 6 percent of Zagreb, while Budapest did not exactly 2.5 percent of its GDP. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Spelled magic.]] I understand what my fellow Member is saying. It was just for the record that my Fidesz fellow Member said that Tarlos was magical. I would like to remind my fellow Member that István Tarlós raised his voice in the same way for the same method of financing, because what matters to us in Budapest is not who is fidesz, who is dialogueative or LMP, for us Budapest is important, and for you, I know it is not. But I think that these proportions wonderfully show why and what they want to achieve with this salad law, part of which is that the business tax is to be used primarily in this way by the law for Community transport, so that, in practice, through the system of financing the task, the State does not take any part in financing the task. I read in Mötv. that the organisation of community transport is a mandatory municipal task for the Metropolitan Assembly. Am I wrong? I see that in 2018, 10 percent of the BKK's budget of more than 150 billion has come from state resources with a quick head count, and I do not want to hear that business tax is also a state resource. Well, if it's anything, business tax, it's a local tax. If anything, it's really a local tax. But you've taken back the share of personal income tax. Tomorrow we will start the agenda with further cuts and cuts in resources for the municipalities, of course, and then we will be able to say that Gergely Christmas has failed. Now, I'm going to tell you, Mr. Secretary, that Gergely Christmas will succeed. I don't want to take it in such a political direction, because I think the numbers are wonderfully showing the problem or the set of problems I'm talking about. BKK can expect more than 1.5 billion passengers, MÁV expects 144 million passengers, while Volán expects 414 million passengers. It is worth looking at the amount of public contribution for these three figures. The 144 million passengers of MÁV were worth 174 billion to the budget and to the Hungarian government. The Volán 414 million passengers were worth 83.5 billion to the budget, while the BKK with 1.5 billion passengers received HUF 15 billion for the same task. Count a little in your head or I'll lend you a calculator if it's necessary to find out that we're talking about such disproportion here that it's clear that you're starting or finishing a vendetta here. I just want to say that the problem will not be that the City Council will not be able to pay for these costs, but there will be no money for development. There won't be any money for development. It is no accident that István Tarlós did not succeed, by any chance, but I would like to turn to the Fidesz Members and tell them about the reconstruction of Blaha Lujza Square. There was no money. But it wasn't because István Tarlos didn't manage well. There was no money for it because you've outed the funding of the municipalities, and unfortunately, in one of the worst situations in this line, the Metropolitan Municipality is. I would like to get a very clear answer from the Secretary of State, yes, no, that sort of thing - : Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has just lied when he promised...? [[Lajos Korózs: Yes! Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I'm not asking you. So did Prime Minister Viktor Orbán lie when he said that any laws that affect Budapest will be agreed with the leadership of the capital because he respects the will of the electorate? [[20.50]] My question is whether Viktor Orbán lied or simply does not respect the will of the electorate. Next question, please put it with the rest. I think the system we've been put before us in this really ugly salad law is terrible. I have three pages of numbers written down, if necessary, I'll tell you in a later comment, but it's probably not really necessary, because you know exactly the purpose, the means. So I'm looking for three questions in the first round. I'd like you to tell us the concept of task financing. I would like you to tell us the practice of financing the task, and I would also like you to answer the question whether Prime Minister Viktor Orbán lied or does not respect the will of the electorate. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-205	Congressman Sándor Szabó, MSZP!
u2019-11-20-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will pick up where my fellow Members left off. I would like to ask you three questions: what, why, for what purpose. It is very simple, I think, that the Secretary of State will answer. What is this question about local governments, local tax revenues, in the bill on other legislative harmonisation issues? Or is it embarrassing for you, or is it embarrassing for you that local governments are otherwise being drafted in a separate law? This week, it seems, is municipal week. In fact, on Monday, we tabled a bill on increasing municipal resources, which, of course, you did not support. Today, we see a reduction in local public transport, a reduction in the further autonomy of local authorities, and tomorrow we will see further cuts from you in relation to the building authority procedures. There is obviously a difference: as long as we are making legislative proposals on the expansion of resources, which you do not support, you seem to be making various proposals on the withdrawal of funds and on the reduction of local government. My next question is for what purpose. You did not say it, but in the press Minister Gulyás said that nothing will change, because in fact, the only thing that happens in the financing of local public transport is that public transport must be financed primarily from local business tax. If that is the case, because, by the way, the government will give both Budapest and rural cities the resources for local public transport, then tell me, Mr State Secretary, what is the need for this regulation. Because then this regulation doesn't make any sense. I think that you consider Mayor László Papp of Debrecen or Mayor Károly Szita Kaposvár to be a talented politician, and I think that they will be able to decide precisely that transport will be financed from the construction tax, the parking fund, the business tax or whatever, if necessary, because everyone knows that, of course, as the capital city, the rural cities, must put a lot of money into public transport. For example, if I look at Szeged's example, in 2010, the government provided more than half a billion forints, 522 million forints, otherwise this figure is around 300 million forints today and is constantly falling. Not to mention a fifth of the people over 65's travel, which they can do for free, should be financed by the government. So my third question comes from what the intention is then. Then let us say clearly that the intention is that the state wants to withdraw from local public transport both for Budapest and for metropolitan areas. Say that. Because then we get to the point that, if this is not important, the story here is that public transport must be financed primarily from business tax and otherwise nothing changes, so do not bind the hands of the municipalities, trust the municipalities, there are also Fidesz municipalities among them. I understand that in Budapest we have to show who wears the wooden spoon, but otherwise Gergely Christmas will perform his task perfectly and manage to finance local public transport. The more serious question is what was the purpose of this story. Here's what I want you to say. Do you want to withdraw from the financing of local public transport? Give me a clear answer. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-207	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK!
u2019-11-20-208	Mr President, Dear House, We have become accustomed to this parliamentary term, in this period, to the fact that, as you preserve the dignity of Parliament, a bill should never be judged from its title. It can be expected that if there is an innocent title to a bill such as a modification of certain laws for harmonisation purposes, this is a wonderful title, if someone tells me what it is about unread, I congratulate them in advance, then I am sure that there is something very nasty about it. This bill did not surprise me very much, and I am not referring specifically to the enforcement of the rules of Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the approval and market surveillance of two or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles. I think that we could have come to a consensus on this relatively easily, especially because it is mandatory legislation, which is also binding on Hungary; it is not even the rules on licensing holiday ships, which are already the subject of the issue, which are less linked to the objective of harmonisation. Although I have to add that there I would like to know that, while exploring the business circles behind the introduction of holiday boats, we may not find familiar names. [[Lajos Korózs: Márius Révész!]] Time will show. He reported it... [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] He called it in, but if he called it in, he wouldn't have the boat, I'm sure it would be incompatible, and he's not in his asset statement. [[Demercation in the benches of opposition representatives.]] But I'd like to know whose it is. I'm sure it's not Mahart's. So, there's gonna be some exciting questions. We understand that this is also easier to submit in such a law than to make a separate law about it and argue in case we miss it. After all, I would like to say that, of course, all of us have left a deep impression that, in this bill, vengeance on metropolitan voters began. That is what this proposal is all about. No wonder the Ministry didn't even take it in its name or in its name, but he didn't announce it, but the otherwise excellent Secretary of State, Bence Tuzson, who is not supposed to be an expert on transport issues, was given the honour of leading this matter forward as a member of the government responsible for abolishing the municipalities. So I have to say, after all, the proposal is mainly about how to make local governments more vulnerable. If the majority of the Budapest voters have already committed and the voters of several large cities have committed the rudeness of the system of national cooperation that they have chosen non-fidesz mayors and bodies, they must somehow be regulated. You can't just make a direct law about them, like us, how to shut up, what to do, where to look, what to say about Máté Kocsis and what not. Well, then they'll have to be put on financially. Unfortunately, I have to say that if there were people in this House who still believe in the Prime Minister, I believe that there are few of us on this side, they must be disappointed now, because the Prime Minister, after the election, has suddenly promised to cooperate with the opposition authorities. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Well, here's our cooperation. In fact, it is a matter of strict rules that bind local governments. Speaking of István Tarlós, dear fellow Members, let us recall this situation about a year ago when they realized that they had no chance of keeping Budapest with a classic Fidesz party soldier. That is how one of them became, for example, the leader of the group governing opposition representatives, one of the aspirants. They found out that they needed István Tarlós, who was most likely to retire before him, but there was a situation where he was exceptionally in a position to negotiate with your government. Then they made a series of agreements that Gergely Gulyás, who was carelessly honest, said before the election, would not be valid unless István Tarlós became mayor. Then the much more routine Prime Minister, who was not tempted by the truth in this case, said that, yes, it will be valid, it is not so, it is an agreement with a capital city. You're breaking this agreement right now. Let it be clear: you are breaking this agreement, you are breaking the rule that required such a proposal, which has a significant impact on the capital, to come before Parliament only after consultation. [[21.00]] It's not a negotiation to be announced at a press conference. The Internet may not be part of the social debate, but personal conversation and perhaps telephone conversation may also replace this, I accept that if the ITM is too modern for online solutions. But the thing is, there wasn't a carrier pigeon, there wasn't a courier, there was nothing. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Instead, they held a press conference where he told the Secretary of State that this is what you are getting, not the free use of the trade tax. If someone reads this legislation now, they can see that the municipality has the right to collect the business tax and spend it on what the government would prefer but not self-government. And I would think that we should decide... [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] If you know the capital figures, my fellow Member, you do not seem to know them, but Mr Csárdi will enlighten you, I will not do so. So, I have to say that if the tasks described there are performed by the capital, there will be very little room for manoeuvre. What I would therefore like to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that it should be clear: this is not a technical detail, it is a political game. But once again, I can tell you what I have already said on a different subject today, that you need to decide what you want. You can sharpen the situation, you can try to punish the metropolitans, you can try to punish the metropolitan voters, but there are instruments of politics not only in government power. One thing I can assure you: the Democratic Coalition and the other opposition parties will do everything in their power to protect the people's decision they have made and to protect the municipalities that are today's small islands of freedom in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-209	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai, the representative of the Dialogue.
u2019-11-20-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, We know that Fidesz and, in particular, Viktor Orbán are very bad at losing, and on 13 October, Fidesz suffered a serious defeat in the municipal elections. We see that a vendetta has accordingly been launched, including the attempt to intimidate and break the entire opposition. They may have started with journalists, independent media, whose margin of manoeuvre has been restricted, and thus restricting the possibility of information on public affairs. They continued with opposition representatives, representing millions of people, trying to carry out their task of controlling you and continuing with the municipalities, especially the opposition-led metropolitan governments, Budapest, county-owned cities and the rest. This is what we see, and we understand that you are small-minded, petty avengers and cowards, because this law has not been treated for its own merit, but is hidden behind the Hungarian naturalization of any meaningless international treaty, but of course we are not blind, we see what is happening. You do not understand, however, that with this card fire, they shoot at their own voters in the same way, the Fidesz voters will also encounter far worse-quality public services, and you do not understand that if you lose an election, you will not have to go further on that road only at even higher speed in the dead end forward, but perhaps you should change the direction. You are replacing oppression by stepping up oppression, and you are using the financial toolbox for this right now. Just to see what your proposal means in Budapest: public transport now looks like what you would consider as a priority in the case of financing from business tax, so that the government pays less than one-tenth of the cost of public transport, while the internationally agreed rate would be roughly one-third, so you should spend three to four times more. Since this does not happen, and in the future it may not even intend to spend this much on public transport support for the people of Budapest and other large cities, it will be obvious that all usable forints will have to be spent on this by the municipality from its own revenues. Why are you doing all this? Gergely Christmas, the joint candidate for mayor of the opposition, who beat up the Fidesz candidate, started this election with the program of creating a free, solidarity and green Budapest together. We were able to gain freedom on 13 October, but it follows that it would attempt to operate a local government with solidarity, i.e. strong social sensitivity, which is also evident in action, and which is consistent with green values, adapted to climate change and, in general, to the ecological crisis, reducing its effects. In these two areas, Gergely Christmas and the majority of the Republicans would like to devote their own resources to the Municipality of Budapest, not to patch the holes that you are hitting on Budapest's ship. We also know that Gergely Christmas took over Budapest with a very large debt. Fidesz and István Tarlós accumulated a debt of HUF 150 billion a few years after a debt consolidation. So you have already starved the capital, and here in the benches they murmured that István Tarlós was a sorcerer and wrote such things in their ridiculous propaganda game that the golden age of Budapest was the city of István Tarlós. On this, the people of Budapest gave a good gig and then expressed their opinion on this: they elected the Republic candidates as mayors, municipal representatives and Gergely Karácsony as mayor with an absolute majority. So you can chant your lies, but less and less people believe you. The thing is, if István Tarlós was even a magician, he couldn't plug in the many ten billion-dollar holes that no one could obviously fill. So you are now attempting to starve the people of Budapest and other large cities, trying to prevent Gergely Christmas from achieving its programme, the construction of a free, solidarity and green Budapest, and you think that because of their gratitude over it, the people of large cities will vote for you in 2022. Well, I have some very bad news: people aren't stupid, unlike what you assume they are. So, if someone consistently engages in politics against their interests, as they do in the Fidesz-KDNP government, then they will be punished at the next opportunity. So if you really have a good heart for the election defeat in 2022, then I am very happy, then go ahead and go ahead on this road, but if you want to give yourself a chance to at least not to lose your own voters in the big cities of Hungary, you should change course quickly, withdraw this cowardly and deceitful law amendment very quickly, and let Budapest and other cities of Hungary operate freely in accordance with their own decisions. Thank you very much in advance.
u2019-11-20-211	Thank you, Congressman Bence of Tordai. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai Fidesz for two minutes.
u2019-11-20-212	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I am trying to answer the question of Lóránt Keresztes, what is the amount of the HUF 1500 billion of resources I have mentioned for railway development. I would like to mention to my fellow Member: the development of the Püspökladány-Debrecen line, the renewal of the line between Szántód-Kőröshegy and Balatonszentgyörgy, the reconstruction of the south-balaton railway stations, the development of fixed-track transport leading to the Liszt Ferenc Airport, the electrification of the Budapest-Esztergom line, the construction of the tram-train line between Szeged-Hódmezővásárhely, the development of the line between Mezőzombor-Sátoraljaújhely, the development of the line between Székesfehérvárvár, Eger, Tatabicske, Miskolc, Nyíregyháza, Kaposvár, the development of the line between Szazhalombat and Aszófőr, while there is still the development of the Kelenföld-Szahalombatta line, the development of Száhalombatta-Puszta-Puszta and Ráros-Ráros-Rágégégégégégégégégégégégégég-Bök. That's the answer to your first question. The other is bus manufacturing. In the meantime, we watched the Volanbus just bought 300 Credos for his fleet. With a Mercedes logo, INTER TAN-KER Ltd. produces Hungarian-developed buses in Debrecen. Mercedes practically accepted this Hungarian-developed bus project and buses as its own bus because of its quality. Similarly, bus development is still taking place in many places, but our huge former bus manufacturing industry with Ikarus is certain at present that it will not be able to recover, there are not enough markets in the area where it can be sold. However, the development of these companies does support the fact that Hungarian bus production exists again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[21.10]]
u2019-11-20-213	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to MEP László Hajdu, DK.
u2019-11-20-214	Dear Secretary of State, Mr. President. Everyone is trying to convince the Secretary of State that this is not an EU law on harmonisation, but primarily the Act of 13 October. I would also like to comment on this part, although there is indeed a harmonisation of EU law in this salad, which has already been said. I would like to start by saying that the year 1991 was XX. Law is the Code of Assignment, until 2011, almost unchanged, it has given the municipalities their responsibilities and powers. They were minor modifications, but they didn't change in essence for 20 years. So the government had a job, and the municipalities had a job, there was a proportion of funding, and there were, of course, holes and debates. However, from 2011 onwards, there have been fundamental changes in this so-called task funding, since the budget that we have now adopted in June 2020 also stresses that we are talking about a budget that is financed by a task. If we are talking about a budget financed by a task, then we can really talk about mandatory tasks, because then let's talk about mandatory tasks. You said verbally, and this is what it says in the submission that it is compulsory for the municipality to provide public transport. But it is also a mandatory task of the municipality to provide nursery care. And in the budget, it says that kindergarten care as a mandatory task will be given to the municipality in a normative way. Yes, about 55 percent of those at the level of tax power, such as Budapest, get about 55 percent. The funding of tasks is already being damaged in the care of the local authorities. Kindergarten care is a mandatory task. The situation is even worse than in kindergarten care, it is less than 50 percent for the districts of Budapest; the capital does not have such a mandatory task, but Budapest is a unified Budapest. About 48-45 percent of the state normative comes out, and the rest has to be financed from something. The same problem is social care, a significant part of which is also a mandatory task; and how can the municipality complement these mandatory tasks? From what you get as your own income. What's your income? The local transmitter. By the way, he doesn't exactly name it by law, because by local tax, we mean a lot of things. By local tax, we mean not only business tax, but also some local taxes, which can be different in the districts, but also land tax or construction tax, car tax and much more. So I think that a local tax can be included in the definition of salad, all the local taxes of the municipalities, while the trade tax has spread that it is the trade tax, in fact the larger amount, obviously. I would like to point out that since 2011, the capital has received other slaps, and in fact István Tarlós has finished nine years ago, in particular, that he has received the slaps that not only the capital of Budapest, but also the districts. If you take the line, you've taken the personal income tax rate away from every district, the capital city. That's a significant loss of resources we've lost. It is very important that the car tax, which was 100 percent in the municipalities, was taken and 60 percent withdrawn. It's another huge source taken from the metropolitans. Because, by the way, it was labeled money, which could be used to build a parking lot, to reduce air pollution, to spend on environmental protection, to mess with traffic, and to solve a lot of other things. 60 percent of this source has been taken away. István Tarlós, as mayor, was all the sufferers of this, since the most messy city in Budapest, by the way, we go to any district of Budapest. Target and targeted subsidies have been withdrawn and eliminated. There was such support as dusty roads, because there are even farm conditions in Budapest, there are dirt roads; there are unwatered dirt roads, and there are strong wells. But the thing is, this will continue to be preserved. I think it's very important that we know about it. The second is that raising and moving the norms as a mandatory task is not a mandatory task for the State itself. If we consider now that, in terms of wealth, the districts have tried to eat their own development, obviously they cannot make improvements in the future, neither in kindergartens, nor in kindergartens, nor in social developments, not to mention their own roads, because they are running the city with business tax. But the public transport of this city seems to finance the entire agglomeration in Budapest. Busses take from Budapest, with their flight-like Budapest number, and the agglomeration also comes here. Then the business tax of the agglomeration in Budapest also falls into the fact that the agglomeration settlements have 30,000 and 20,000 and 25,000 settlements and 15 thousand settlements, and the agglomeration has BKV flights. So are they also subject to the trade tax, or are they only subject to it if they voted wrong on 13 October, from your point of view? I think that a little bit of the classification of the threat to trade tax has already been mentioned here... the horse's foot is very out, Mr. Secretary of State, and I would like to ask you that the wrath of the people of Budapest is no longer fought. If you look at the fact that the own revenue that the municipalities can obtain at the moment is of what it comes from, then Budapest's industry and businesses support the city, not the Hungarian budget, but the Budapest industry. Fortunately, in Budapest, the willingness to pay business taxes and tax discipline are around 99 percent. So there's hardly any tax assets. On the one hand, the tax collection team is good, on the other hand, the tax ethic is good. In this respect, if you look at what else can be twisted out of this industry, because there is probably a small possibility of a business tax increase, it is such a moral factor that neither the government nor the capital, nor the affected settlements that have public transport and operate it themselves, do not need it. This is a punishment that neither you nor the municipalities need. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-215	Thank you, Congressman László Hajdu. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2019-11-20-216	Thank you very much for the floor. It has been said before me here that in a country with a Western European perspective, or I can say that in Western Europe, the financing of public transport in general is divided by one third to one third. That is what has been said. And it's worth seeing and sticking to the numbers of Prague City. Prague capital, there are 1 million 300,000 people. This is half a million less than the number of people living in Budapest. His budget is almost three times the budget of Budapest. The funding of Prague's public transport, which has been optimized for a smaller population, is HUF 204 billion, but this is also used by the state, despite their budget of almost three times the size of about one-third. [[21.20]] We are telling you this because we know precisely that this debate, unlike the previous one, where you have entered the debate very quickly and constructively, is not going to stand in it. If you'd agree, we could argue with each other. But you know you don't have any professional arguments, and we're not gonna be able to convince you, just because the profession is completely out of line. So what they need to see in the context of this law is that, by virtually withdrawing from the financing of public transport, the State is not only bad for public transport itself. As mayor, I am sorry, my fellow Member, former mayor said, there is still an enormous number of mandatory tasks for municipalities, such as social care. Or take the street lighting in Budapest, it's not two forints. What do you think the Budapesters or the Budapest Fidesz Voters will say if the Lighting of the Castle ceases for reasons of savings? How will this affect Budapest's economy? Or are you saying that all good things are bad because the capital is in opposition hands? Or imagine that in this beautiful house there will be no streetlight, of course, from the outside. So that the Hungarian Parliament will not be illuminated? How much do you think this will cost the city, the people in the city? Not for the budget, for tourism. Yeah, there's still time, there's plenty of time, even though you're looking at your watch. I think it would be a lot faster for you at this late hour if you took part in the debate. If you put on your brave panties and said that you are honourable Members, my argument is that. But we don't hear anything. Thank you very much. [[Interjection: He pressed the button!]] Yeah, I knew I'd provoke him.
u2019-11-20-217	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-11-20-218	Mr. Congressman, I think your comment was quite simply unworthy and I resent it. My plan was to listen to you, like the previous one, and then I'll answer. [[Antal Csárdi: It's called closing.]] No, it's called a debate, and by the way, he would have had time to comment. But thank you very much... Let's get started. A lot of questions came up. The first question that should be clarified is why this was not submitted under a separate law, but as part of this salad law. I'm sure we thought there were comments like that, that they wouldn't notice. Congressman, the truth is, we see a lot of things out of you, but we don't suppose they wouldn't notice. We definitely have that kind of trust. So I'm asking you not to accuse us of that. The fact is, for such a small amendment, it is not worth introducing a separate law before the Honourable Parliament. We still have the opportunity to have this debate. It is also certain that many references have been made here to the municipal elections. The fact is, honourable Members and gentlemen, the Fidesz-KDNP received 2 million votes in the municipal elections and the tarkabarka opposition received 1.6 million votes. Questions and comments were made on the various budgetary situations, as the Fidesz mayors handed it over to their successors. The fact is that in Budapest, the outgoing Fidesz mayors handed over the budgets and municipalities with a surplus of HUF 93 billion, in contrast to what happened after the Demszky era, that the state had to take over HUF 200 billion from the municipalities. That's the thing. The fact is that local transport, as a mandatory municipal task, appears only in the capital, everywhere else as a self-employed municipal task. Indeed, we believe that local transport is one of the most important, if not the most important task of the City Council. That's why according to the fund-sharing law, 54 percent of the capital is given, and 46 percent of the districts. For example, it is necessary to finance BKV from this shared source. I do not really understand why there would be a retaliation to clarify a law. Let's see how the relevant section of the law has said so far. The Metropolitan Municipality and the district authorities are set out in Annex 2. 54 per cent of the total revenue due pursuant to § 4 of the Budapest City Council, and 46 per cent of the district municipalities together. The Municipality of Budapest is obliged to spend the necessary amount of 54 percent of its right to carry out the local community transport task in the reference year. This has already been published in this law, which has had to be used to finance public transport. What we have here is to clarify the legislation and make it clear that it is necessary to devote the resources available to this task in the first place. Because it is so that a municipality has revenue, it has its own revenue, and it is necessary to devote its own revenue to its own tasks. It's not like you can use those receipts for anything from then on. There are municipal tasks, first the public services must be provided to those living in a given settlement and then all other tasks can be spent on. Task financing does not mean that the State provides the 100 percent for the given task. Local governments have their own income and have their own tax revenue to finance their own tasks. It is not a retaliation or any kind of revenge, as you have said, that we will clarify the task that has already been carried out, and we will make clear what it is necessary, first and foremost, to use the resources that come from the local business tax. The fact is, honourable Members and Members, that what István Tarlós has been able to finance successfully in recent years will also be possible for Gergely Christmas. We're hoping you can do it. This is your chance to show me how the mayor will handle this. If it went to István Tarlós, then we hope that Gergely Christmas will succeed. And the fact is that the state aid that the Hungarian State grants only to organise local transport will continue to be granted to the capital, the same source, the support that was available this year, in the next period, the government will continue to guarantee its promise. And then, if the Metropolitan Municipality fulfils its mandatory tasks, the remaining revenues will be spent on plans, programmes and actions that the Metropolitan Assembly and the Mayor consider appropriate and important. It is, of course, the right and responsibility of local decision-makers to define this. I am particularly grateful that there are many people in opposition space who are concerned about Fidesz-KDNP's election victory in 22. Please do not, believe me, that Hungarian voters will make wise decisions and will see that the Hungarian government and Fidesz-KDNP, which supports the Hungarian government, are doing their job well. Thank you very much for your attention. If there are any further questions, of course I am available. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[21.30]]
u2019-11-20-219	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi for two minutes, LMP.
u2019-11-20-220	Thank you very much. I'll try to make it clear to you again. Thus, the concept of task financing does not mean that 100% of the public service mission is necessarily financed by the State, but that it covers all operating costs in a jointly established capacity. Now, if someone dares me to say that the BKK has enough 15 billion forints to provide a reasonable quality task, I will really kiss their hand. We are talking about the fact that there is a task of more than HUF 150 billion, for which I have the last amount of HUF 2018 in my head, to which the state gave HUF 15 billion at that time. If it's task funding, I'll be a barking puppy. The problem with this, my dear Secretary of State, is that this kind of approach, that the municipality will spend its own revenue as it wishes, never stood up, but the fact is that this otherwise local tax and indeed significant revenue could be used for improvements such as the replacement of utilities. Do you know that the exchange of utilities takes place in Hungary at a rate that would take 400 years to replace it completely? I think that either globally, we look at the big picture and we look at the task funding, or we really don't look at it. I would just like to point out that at the time of the adoption of the 2019 budget, the mayor was called István Tarlós, the General Assembly of Budapest was a highly fidesz majority, and the budget was managed with a deficit of HUF 114 billion. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-221	Thank you. Two-minute comment on Mr Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy!
u2019-11-20-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's just, speaking of traffic money, it's usually the 13th of October to fix it. You've lost this election. Just record, you've lost two-thirds of the districts in Budapest, and all the districts you've had two-thirds. 14 out of 14 in Zuglo, I think 15 out of 15, 16 out of 17 in NewBudan. They even lost Gellért Hill, which has belonged to the Hungarian right since 1990. So I think that they should not deceive themselves, 3.5 million Hungarians were out of Fidesz mayor's position and transferred to the hands of the Democratic Mayor. This is 3.5 million Hungarians who said no to your politics on 13 October. The other, if István Tarlós really had done a miracle and it was a golden age for Budapest, István Tarlós has been the only Hungarian mayor since 90, but only Budapest has a mayor who has lost an election. I would like to say that Gábor Demszky has never lost an election, because the last time he didn't win, he didn't run the election, I just want to signal it. So I just want to record that István Tarlós is the only mayor in the history of the last 30 years in Budapest who has been in office, started and lost. This has become the opinion of the Budapest people about your ruling in the capital. Thank you very much. [[Lajos Korózs, Ágnes Kunhalmi and Bence Tordai applaud.]]
u2019-11-20-223	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. For two minutes, Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz.
u2019-11-20-224	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I did not plan to make a comment, but Mr Hajdu, with whom I was mayor for a long time, may not be old enough not to remember before 2011, when even the financing of the institution, the normative funding, was given to the municipalities in a much worse proportion than you said. Isn't that right, Congressman? That's what we should nod for. At that time, you were a pro-government representative, because we discussed these matters together. As far as the BKV is concerned, BKV has not only expenditure, there is revenue, there is HUF 70 billion in revenue at BKV. Moreover, the state not only adds 15 billion, but also takes over and finances the HÉV, one of the centres of gravity of agglomeration transport takes place through the HÉVs. It should be about these, not just the 15 billion. And as for the sharing of resources, we all know that the districts get the sharing of resources. How much do they give you for community transport? Haven't they given you any after all this? Otherwise, they could give us nothing to stop them from doing that. As far as the punishment and threat are concerned, I could tell you that as former mayor, when you governed from 2002, I received 20 SAO inspections in three years and five complex tax investigations. Well, the threat wasn't that, now, of all the mandatory tasks, you have to spend the money first and foremost on what you consider to be the most important. Mayor Gergely Christmas considers BKV the most important. If that's the most important thing, then we'll grant the wish, which is what you'll have to pay for first. Do it! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-20-225	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Kovács. Lóránt László Keresztes's comment follows.
u2019-11-20-226	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'm glad that some kind of debate is starting to unfold. Thank you, Mr Bányai, for your reply, and I am very pleased that you have looked into these figures. But let's see exactly what the data he said meant. You said you were getting 300 new buses. Then let's compare this with the fact that in Hungary 8500 buses provide local and inter-local public transport, with a total average age of about 15 years. So, according to experts, 75 percent of this should be replaced; now, compare the 300 new buses that are under way. The EUR 1500 billion railway development package is about what development elements this will represent. This shows that this will not change the situation in rural areas that are falling apart in particular. We also know precisely from the professional data that the domestic railway infrastructure is in a terrible state. Now, on the other hand, perhaps we can agree that it is extremely irresponsible for the government to spend a thousand billion forints on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line of 166 km, where there is no substantial transport and transport demand. This is what the government's policy is all about. I'll give you another piece of data. If we are talking about bus transport, there is a need for basic infrastructure, such as appropriate roads. In Hungary there are 17,000 kilometers of lower roads in the category "bad" and "unsatisfying." They're waiting for immediate renovation. Compared to this, next year's budget is designed to renovate only 450 kilometers of roads within the framework of the Modern villages programme. With regard to domestic bus production, the government announced about three times since 2010, after the two-thirds victory, the re-launch of the national bus production, if only it would happen! We'd love to, we're really rooting for this to happen. It didn't turn out to be anything. And as I looked at it, the biggest state aid is for designing a Chinese bus capacity. So much for the government's national commitment. We don't hear anything about what the government wants to do with the huge labour shortage that affects the transport sector. We know that there is a huge exodus due to outrageous wages and unpredictable careers, and there is obviously a very high absorption effect on the Western transport market. They don't know what they're gonna do about it, or what they might want to do about it. Traffic companies are in a lot of trouble. Well, I am glad that Mr Secretary of State will be involved in the debate, although this speech was now explicitly political, it was a net political pro-government contribution. I'm thinking of your last comment, Mr. Secretary. On the situation of the capital, Mr Csárdi and several of my fellow Members have shown a very important picture of the situation. Allow me to turn a little towards the countryside and underline the situation of the big cities in the countryside, although it has already occurred to me what situation these cities are in. We know that even for the largest cities, it is not possible to solve the financing of public transport from purely municipal sources. If we look at the case of Debrecen, Szeged, Pécs, we look at the condition of the vehicle parks operating in these cities, it is deplorable. There are buses in quite a state of disarmed condition. I think that this is a clear responsibility of the government, that the resources that the municipalities need to create these extremely important public services must be given to these municipalities. [[21.40]] For a very, very long time, I have also been a councilman in Pécs for eight years, and the Association of County-righted Cities is also struggling to finally see this problem and take substantial steps to enable the municipalities to carry out these basic tasks. And it cannot be repeated enough here that public services must be provided not only to the opposition but also to the Fidesz voters. We've heard a lot about the capital, about the problems of the capital. Congressman Varga specifically mentioned Miskolc, and I am talking a little bit about the situation in Pécs. I can also take this as an example, because I think that Pécs is a very good example of rural cities where the transport company is also municipal, or the situation may be similar. Pécs is the largest city in Transdanubia, and after ten years of Fidesz governance, opposition leadership is now in power. They were faced with a situation where Fidesz handed over the key to the city with a debt of over 20 billion, so to speak. For many years, the city has had a virtual budget and has been able to stay on the surface only with public life belts, and obviously by the end of next year the municipality has a very serious obligation to repay it. There are also huge problems with the bus network, specifically significantly worse, the bus park in the city is much older than it was four years ago when Fidesz started modernising the city bus park. Everyone, the mayor of Fidesz, has said that yes, he agrees with everyone, it is a very serious challenge, and the government must give a clear answer on how these cities can solve it. I am asking you again, Mr Secretary, because you have not answered my question, that this is it. These steps, which we are now seeing, would this be the great solution that Minister Palkovics, your boss, has been tasked with solving the system of financing local municipal community transport? I think that it is totally unacceptable, where the government is going now, and we should indeed underline that it is not only the capital that they wish to punish here, but also the largest rural cities, where there have been several places where there have been Fidesz leadership, that they could prove, but now the opposition towns will certainly not have the opportunity to solve these tasks. So this is clearly the government's responsibility, and it is quite unacceptable that the government wants to abandon these settlements, and in this way, after a municipal election, it wants revenge on these settlements. They will punish not opposition or independent mayors, but those living in these rural cities. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-227	Thank you, Congressman László Keresztes. The next speaker is Congressman Gábor Bányai, Fidesz.
u2019-11-20-228	Mr President, thank you again, and thank you for your patience, my fellow Members, for answering a few points and questions. By examining Antal Csárdi's data, he compared Prague with Budapest or Vienna with Budapest. [[Antal Csárdi: Prague.]] Prague, but Vienna has also been said here, perhaps not from your mouth. Prague's school system is not maintained by the state, but by the city of Prague as capital. As far as I know, he also has a university, so from the maintenance side, the city of Prague has a lot more institutions than Budapest or even district authorities. In other words, it is not possible to compare the two, I think it is a mistake to compare them, because the budgetary position of the two settlements, the two capitals, and the metropolis is based on a completely different basis. The other thing is that we have to compare the 20 years of Demszky, they didn't say how our city, our capital city, the BKV and the other organizations they kept. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] That's a great thing. They elected me five times, four times, so it's a good thing, if you take it as a positive thing. (Zsolt Gréczy intervenes. ) Excuse me, Congressman Gréczy? What's the question? [[The president's ringing the bell. Interjection: Continue, for the time is passing.]] I don't want to talk about me, I'm just saying... [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you, Mr. President, for your help. So the point is, you have to compare what you can compare.
u2019-11-20-229	Congressman Banya, I can't help you. I ask Congressman Gréczy with greater self-control...
u2019-11-20-230	As my countryman, I accept your help, Mr. President.
u2019-11-20-231	You have the floor, Congressman Banai.
u2019-11-20-232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We told you about the production of buses in Hungary. Now that the Volánbus has bought 300 at the moment, he will buy another 300, so the question is not that, but he asked if there was a bus production. The fact that a Chinese company has also appeared on the bus market is not only Chinese, but also Volvo buses have appeared in Budapest, they manufacture buses and assemble buses for other companies in our area, but Hungary has repaired it, we have even taken back the Rába running plant sold by the Socialist Government to make running gear for bus production, for example, and I don't even talk about the rest of it, because if you don't want to hear it, you don't want to hear it. My colleague Bence Tordai, my fellow citizen, brought it up, and I think the Member is explaining that he is going to rot down Budapest public transport because of us, because he does not get enough support, and he is explaining in advance, which is what I have been taking from his sentences, that they will damage the quality and morale of Budapest's transport, because the capital was able to keep BKK, the BKV, he had his own income, he also had support, not 15 but 30 billion forints. So in Hungarian, he was able to maintain the Metropolitan Municipality operated by the former mayor of Tarlós's pity and failed. I do not believe that what Mr Tordai said is nothing more than explaining that they do not want to maintain the BKV, public transport in the same capacity as before. By the way, I would like you to come to Kecskemét, Congressman Pósán, to see what kind of buses run in these county capitals, but perhaps even in Pécs there are quite good quality buses. I'd like to see buses like this run by us. I don't think you're right about what you said about the county capitals being rotten. buses, public transport equipment. They're talking about road construction. In fact and truly, there are terrible quality roads in Hungary, most of them. But these can't be renovated overnight. We only need 500 billion forints in Bács-Kiskun immediately to refurbish our worst roads, and there are 18 counties besides us, if I count correctly. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Aren't they important? Congressman Arató is not important, we know that he thinks only in the city state of Budapest, but he exists outside Budapest... (Gergely Arató intervenes.) But I don't think it's that much, because you're talking about what I'm saying is that we're seeing the world the opposite way. But the point is: by the time we make up for the missing people in Hungary, we start or finish renovating the poor quality roads, it may not really be ten, it may not be 20 years, because there is no capacity for it. Currently, Hungarian construction does not win, companies belonging to or linked to anyone do not win the renovation of the roads, there is so much demand for it, and there is so much resources for it. We couldn't find a source before. We are developing roads from home sources, not 400, but more than 1000 kilometers of roads will be renovated next year, not in the "Modern villages" program, but in the "Hungarian village" program. He brought up the rail development here. Your representatives regularly come with the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, I understand, because it can be an irritating development, a fast train connecting several ports from the south to the north. This is a development not based on passenger transport. This is one of the most important EU Corridors passing through Hungary, railway line 150. That the renovation of this would be a sin, or that it was said to be a stupidity, while 10 million tonnes of goods would travel back and forth towards the port of Pyreus and Rotterdam, Hamburg or even towards Central Europe or other regions in the north-south. And it's going to be huge if you're going to make a ton of money. It was said earlier, a year or a half ago, perhaps it was just Mr János Volner who said that it would pay off in 2,400 years. Yes, if this railway were built on passenger transport or was renovated, it would never be repaid, Jesus Christ would come again for a third time, and it would not be repaid. Therefore, there will not be such an opportunity for us to wait until now, because the government does not base this development on passenger transport, and I think it should be more than happy that Europe, one of the most serious rail development in Central Europe, will be crossing Hungary's otherwise failing regions. It is not true that this government does not really care about the development of rail transport in the areas that are falling. What I have listed in the rail development list is that half of it is going through a disadvantaged area, so I did not understand why Mr President said that we do not care about it and that they do not receive such development, but the railway model of Gábor Baross has ceased in the past for many reasons; if we only mention Trianon, we can already see that Hungary does not have a circular rail system, and that the lack of this is, to this day, causing very great damage to Hungarian public transport and freight transport. And to conclude, to understand each other, it can be compared, once again I say to Congressman Csárdi, apples with apples, pears with pears. So when they come up with what a miserable city Budapest is like as a capital city and its districts, they come up with the fact that it doesn't get enough funding, and once again, this capital has worked during the past nine years under István Tarlós. If you want to run well with your candidate, the new mayor of the capital, you will be able to operate it. That's why I don't understand the suggestion that we want to punish him. Congressman Gréczy, we have noted that we have failed Budapest. Of course it hurts, you've been hurt, you've lost every election since 2006, you've been hurt, I can understand that. Now we're smelling this ripped-off flower. [[21.50]] But the metropolitans have decided, we acknowledge, and we help the inhabitants of the capital in everything else, because we know that not only are the supporters of this fantastic cooperation in Budapest and the other cities with lost county rights, the 23 out of 10. We know what we are doing, we will help the Hungarian cities, including the Budapest capital. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-233	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Bányai. I'll give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi for two minutes, LMP.
u2019-11-20-234	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to reply to my colleague from Banya. Apples with apples, pears with pears. The financing of public transport in Prague costs HUF 204 billion. This HUF 204 billion provides community transport for one third of a smaller city, a approximately 25 percent higher amount for the social transport of a 30 percent smaller city. The population is 1 million, 300 thousand people, and it still costs more. Compared to this, the state is getting involved in financing there. And by the way, Budapest is Prague as Vienna, and that's how Vienna produces this for the Hungarian economy. I would just like to say to my fellow Member that the BKK's total wage cost in 2018 was HUF 60 billion. What percentage of that do you think came back in tax revenue? I would like to tell you that more has come back in tax revenues than the state has added to public transport in Budapest. That's what I'm talking about! So, from the budgetary point of view, you have an extra balance. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-11-20-235	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2019-11-20-236	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to abuse anyone's trust, but I'd definitely like to give you a rejoinder. Congressman Bányai, I respect the fact that a Fidesz Member is in a debate and is quickly looking for data. I guess I'll have to respect that by answering that. He mentioned the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. I do not know, Congressman, that it has not been possible, in many years, to have anyone from the government offer guarantees of return. You know that this project is built on Chinese credit, but this will be repaid by Hungarian taxpayers. To a large extent, Chinese companies will participate, and Lőrinc Mészáros' companies will receive 300 billion. But again, there's no return guarantee. What's the point of this development? We know that this project aimed at reaching the port of Pyreus, but the Chinese and the Hungarian government are increasingly looking towards Trieste. So it is likely that they intend to meet the needs of Hungarian companies from Trieste, with the developments that take place there. And how relevant this transport route is: it has not been so long since we read that rail transport on the Belgrade-Skopje-Szaloniki line has been discontinued due to lack of interest. We believe that this thousand billion-dollar project is nothing more than a thousand-billion-dollar theft, and that is practically how much money is taken out of the pockets of Hungarian taxpayers. To see how many lower road networks are being developed in the Hungarian villages programme, Congressman, there is only HUF 50 billion available in the budget. You said, Congressman, that it is not a matter of a year or two to work off this disadvantage, but the problem, Congressman, is that if you now look at the lower roads on the basis of the statistics of the road operator, then the proportion of roads in the wrong and the wrong category is 71 percent now, and when you came to the government, it was only 63 percent. [[Gábor Bányai: That's not true.]] So you're not working it off, you're making it worse, you're destroying the quality of the roads. And it reached 50 percent of the number of roads that practically need to be rebuilt. I'm quoting the statistics of the road operator, Congressman, I'd like you to look into it. I have one more question for the Secretary of State, and I hope you have the opportunity to answer it. We do know that, unfortunately, this is what I say on our behalf is an EU requirement to open or market the market for cross-border public transport. So the LMP's very strong position is that it is a strategic sector to ensure local public transport, and it is a matter of national strategy, so we are very, very unhappy with the presence of private service providers here, so we believe that this must be kept in Community funding and that it is only acceptable and that private service providers should be allowed where it ultimately means a better service for the public. So we are not happy about it, but it is a European Union obligation, and the various governments have asked for delays in opening the market many times. But it's on the threshold, we know that. However, Hungary must be prepared to open this market in our national interest and prepare Hungarian state-owned companies as well. We can see that these companies are in extremely poor condition, that the fleet is in poor condition, that it is in worse condition every year. And there are conditions for which companies will be able to run in these tenders. So how does the Hungarian government feel about preparing Hungarian companies, if this unwanted but forced market opening happens, then can these companies even start? How can they help these companies and even the domestic economy to become workers, drivers? So how are you going to change your working conditions, pay people who have to drive these vehicles? How can they offer them a career model? And what guarantees can we see on the part of the government, what guarantees they want to lay down, so that it is not possible that, when the market is opened, companies with good connections to the government's lunar yard may, in very economical terms, be in position at such a tender, and that, when the market is opened, the traffic conditions of highly difficult peripheral areas may remain for the otherwise depraved public companies. So, so that this certain market opening does not cause serious damage to Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy, how is the Hungarian government preparing for this? Thank you in advance, in case we can still get an answer.
u2019-11-20-237	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Gábor Bányai Fidesz has the floor for two minutes.
u2019-11-20-238	Thank you again for your patience, Mr President, and thank you for the floor. I would just like to inform Mr Lóránt Keresztes that the Skopje line has not ceased, but that there is no passenger transport. The freight transport works, and that's the deal, isn't it? The Socialists sold MÁV Cargo back in the day because it was a business, it was a big business. It's still a business anyway. I would like to tell you, although I do not think you are aware of the map of Bács-Kiskun county, as I am not in every way with Baranya County, in my own constituency there are 440 kilometers of lower routes, of which 227 has been renovated in the last nine or ten years by the previous and current governments. So this, you said, has increased to 75 percent in quality, that is not true for us, and I think most of my fellow Members, who are fidesz Members, are also not true. More than half of the roads have already been renovated in the constituency of Bács-Kiskun county, Kiskunhalas centre. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-239	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] [[There's no signal.]] [[There's no signal.]] Two minutes? (No signal coming in. ) A proper speech? (No signal coming in.) No. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Schanda Tamás János Secretary of State.
u2019-11-20-240	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The fact is that we have had little professional debate on this bill, except for some Members, which I understand, of course, because you are concerned that you will not be able to reach the ankle of István Tarlós. [[Noise on the opposition side. Voices: Whoo! Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] And they're worried that he's solved it, and you and your friends are going to fail. [[Gergely Arató: This is when they now seek a fair relationship with the capital!]] That's the thing. The fact is that Budapest is not the country, and although the colourful-scented opposition has indeed received a majority in Budapest, we can still see that the Fidesz-KDNP alliance has received 2 million votes in the country and 1.6 million votes in the opposition parties. Mr Csárdi has repeatedly raised the question of comparison with foreign cities in relation to the size of the budget of the Municipality of Budapest. There may have been an answer to that, but I would also like to say that apples cannot be compared to pears, even if it is a professional hazard. [[22.00]] Let's just say once again that no one wants revenge on anyone. The municipal law has so far clearly and clearly regulated what is the state and what is the local government's task [[Gergely Arató: Why do you need to change it if it has been clear so far?!]] The voluntary task of which municipalities are obliged to organise local transport. So far, the City Council has been obliged to spend the necessary amount and the necessary amount to finance local transport, this does not change, we only clarify the legal requirements that appear in this respect. I don't really know what the problem is. The support that the government has provided so far will continue to be provided, and the capital will still have to be able to resolve the organisation of local transport in the capital from its own revenues, from the state's support and, by the way, from ticket revenues. Less deputy mayor, less fees [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] and there will be a source of these questions. [[Gergely Arató: Less Secretary of State and get to the capital! Intercoms from the opposition. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Market............................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] Market opening. With regard to market opening, I think that the situation is clear and clear: this does not affect local transport companies and local transport, and this is indeed an EU requirement for inter-urban transport. And to provide the necessary professional response to this, allow me to say that this is what reorganisation is about, in the case of Volán companies, because that is why regional service providers were first created, and now a single company with national care, capable of providing high-quality public services in all areas of the country with cheaper management, simpler and more flexible internal operations and higher-quality public services. This is what the change is about, which the Hungarian State will provide from the ownership side, and the competition for the necessary market opening in accordance with the EU regulation will be published later this year. I hope that all the questions that have been raised have been answered [[Gergely Harvester: No!]] and it has been clarified that, in principle, the broad regulatory framework of the bill has taken place and concerns many regulatory issues, why and why, and I trust that they have understood what has been said, and that they can then give a good heart to supporting the adoption of the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-241	Thank you, Secretary Schanda. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering a five-minute technical break. (Sunning: 22.03 22.08) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Tickets: Attila Móring József and György Szilágyi)
u2019-11-20-242	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. The 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation follows. General debate on the amendment of law and certain related legislative provisions until closure. The government referral is T/8032. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe.
u2019-11-20-243	Mr President, Dear Parliament, If you'll allow me, I won't take advantage of you... [[Krisztina Hohn: No sound! The speaker will adjust his microphone.]] You do now? [[Krisztina Hohn: Yes.]] Thank you very much. If you will allow me, I will not take advantage of the timeframe available to me, but I must say that the Hungarian Government's objective is clear and clear: by 2030 Hungary should be one of the five most viable and competitive European countries, and to this end further strengthening the competitiveness of our country is absolutely necessary. In order to achieve this, strengthening the capacities and efficiency of the Hungarian research system and deepening the relationship between scientific and economic operators are absolutely necessary, and the government intends to gradually and forcefully increase the proportion of public funding of R &amp; D in relation to GDP. Our aim is to ensure that the domestic R &amp; D &amp; I system is a leading performance at European level, with R &amp; D &amp; I spending on R &amp; D levels reaching 1.8 per cent by 2020; therefore, in 2018, the share of R &amp; D resources was 1.5 per cent of GDP. The GDP-to-GDP ratio has not been so high since 1990. The main objective of the bill before you is to make the use of the available R &amp; D and innovation resources even more effective, planned and in line with more strategic objectives. In addition, the amendment of the RDI Act will contribute to the development of domestic RDI activities and further focus on existing activities by strengthening cooperation between actors in the R &amp; D and innovation institutional system; overall, it will enable a governance model in the governance system that takes into account and consistent with best international practices; it will have a positive impact on other competitiveness policies and strategies for creating conditions for domestic economic growth. At the same time, in close cooperation with other wallets, it integrates the sectoral dimension of the R &amp; D and innovation domain and the innovation challenges of our knowledge intensity sectors, such as health and the digital sector. This approach is also reinforced by the previous amendment of the RDI Act, which will enter into force on 1 January 2020, when the National Science Policy Council will start its operation, which will also consider the strategy of the NRDI Fund as an institution, in addition to its other tasks as a preliminary filter. [[22.10]] Dear Parliament, The proposal also clarifies the rules on the allocation of funds when the government carries out its tasks in relation to the public funding of the RDI through the Minister for Science Policy Coordination. The Minister will continue to carry out his duties primarily through the NRDI Office, the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund, thus ensuring the supervision of the RDI based on uniform case-law and the efficient use of available resources. The bill builds on the operational experience of the NRDI Office and the NRDI Fund over four years, while at the same time simplifying and rationalising the proposals funded by the Fund and the rules for assessing them, with a view to addressing the needs and challenges encountered in practice, with a view to ensuring a transparent use of public funds. The bill also amends the interpretation provisions. These rules are important beyond themselves, because they provide the backbone of the Hungarian regulatory system. Although the amendments appear to be of a technical nature, they will have tangible requirements for the use of R &amp; D and innovation grants and tax incentives. The amendment is limited to the most necessary changes in order to ensure the predictability of existing practice and case-law, which provide a professional basis for the unity between the concept system used in EU and OECD documents, in particular the Frascati Handbook and the law. Dear Parliament, A further important element of the amendment is the fine-tuning of the R &amp; D certification process carried out by the National Intellectual Property Office. One of the prerequisites for tax and contribution reductions to encourage R &amp; D activities and the predictable use of grants is a uniform legal interpretation of R &amp; D concepts and a system of institutions providing a uniform practice of law enforcement, which will be operated by the National Intellectual Property Office as of 1 January 2012. An important element of the R &amp; D rating system operated by the Office is that, at the request of the tax authority, court or other authority, the ISTNH is involved as an expert in deciding on specific issues concerning the qualification of individual activities as R &amp; D and the relevance of certain costs to R &amp; D and innovation activities. The aim of the amendment is to further increase legal certainty for companies seeking rights, innovative, including R &amp; D, and to provide additional assistance in their decisions on taxation and tenders. To this end, the bill complements the rules on professional activities carried out by the SZTNH, so that the expertise of the SZTNH can be used not only by the tax authority, the court or other authorities but also by research and development firms. Dear Parliament, In addition to the key regulatory objectives, the bill includes technical amendments. On the one hand, the law ensures full consistency between the European Parliament and the Council Regulation on the protection and free movement of data of natural persons, the so-called GDPR and the laws on information self-determination and freedom of information adopted by the European Parliament and the Council. On the other hand, it contains technical amendments related to the operation of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, which are both conducive to and clarifying everyday operation, but do not affect the essential elements of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network. Dear Parliament, Through this amendment of the Act, the role of certain public actors in R &amp; D &amp; I policy is clear and clarified to increase the efficiency of the cooperation of public actors and to strengthen the support and incentive framework of the RDI system. The efficiency gains achieved through the government fine-tuning of the system can be used for the benefit of innovative companies in Hungary. In addition, the clarification of the terms and opinions underlying the application system and the R &amp; D rating will help this process to further strengthen the Hungarian economy in the coming years. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-20-244	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-20-245	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, LXVIII 2019 adopted by the National Assembly on 2 July 2019 is a direct logical continuation of the current bill, if you like. Act LXXVI of 2014 amending, inter alia, the Act on Scientific Research, Development and Innovation Law. This law, i.e. the law adopted in the summer of 2019, which is the continuation of this proposal, served to transform the institutional system and funding of the entire Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation system, as the State Secretary mentioned. The main elements of this were the following, and these are obviously linked to the current amendments. On the one hand, it increased funding for research, development and innovation by 25 percent. This is about HUF 32 billion, which is incorporated into the budget. A single National Research, Development and Innovation Fund has been established to provide predictable funding for basic and applied research. Its budget for 2020 amounts to HUF 137.8 billion, with 35.9 percent in the research fund, 47.3 percent in the innovation fund. The Eötvös Loránd Research Network was established as a public funding research network for basic and applied research. It must have affected the Academy's transformation. This new research network is assigned to the Parliament, i.e. its independence is the same as the MTA. This law also provided for its governing body, the delegation of six members by the MTA, 6 members by the ITM, and the President's representative by the ministers of the MTA and the ITM, with a consensus proposal, and the members and the President appointed by the Prime Minister for five years. [[22.20]] It is also provided for in the Act that the National Science Policy Council, which is the scientific advisory body of the Government, should be set up from 1 January 2020. Obviously, the current proposal contains appropriate passages in this regard. The purpose of this Act is to ensure a more even allocation of resources after the establishment of a new organisational and financing model for the RDI, as stated by the Secretary of State, that research programmes and the long-term operation of the tendering system are ensured. It clarifies the tasks and powers of the RDI system, clarifies the powers and responsibilities of the public actors shaping the RDI policy, and there are a number of provisions in the law on its cooperation framework, which I do not wish to subpoena now, but can be turned around, and this will be clear and streamlined and streamlines the RDI's domestic public funding support system. There is, of course, a long experience, more than four years of experience, which can rely on the experiences of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office and the Innovation Fund. The explanatory provisions have been mentioned by the Secretary of State. I must honestly admit that I consider this to be the most important thing in the entire proposal. Of course, it is also important to know who has competence, what is the task, what is the framework for cooperation, but the interpretation provisions are very important because for many years it has been a recurring problem, if you will, we could even talk about who understands basic research, applied research, innovation and so on and so forth. Let me mention a few examples in this regard, which may be understandable in this regard, which occurred during the Socialist-Free Democratic Government. The Innovation Fund, as such, was set up at the time, this must be acknowledged, but it was not clear exactly what it was to be financed, and what we would say today is that basic research, which has been funded by many other sources since OTKA... was an example of music history research, which is important and culturally important, but should not have been financed from the Innovation Fund, but financed from it. I'm just saying this because the interpretation provisions are crucial to all of this. And what I think is particularly important in this regard is that these interpretation provisions make it possible to do what has so far been quite moaning, namely that the university world, higher education, which has been a growing engine and catalyst for innovation in many cases in recent years, can be even more integrated into this system. And I would just like to point out that it is really important to know what basic research is, what research is applied, and what innovation is, in the case of health developments, either in the field of pharmaceutical research, or in the area of innovation, because this is typically where, if not clarified, we either have endless debates, or we simply cannot draw the right resources into the area, which is, by the way, one of the most prosperous industrial activities in today's world. Another objective of the bill is data protection under the EU directives, and this is the GDPR, which is primarily a task that is expected and technically to be solved, namely who is entitled to handle the personal data of the beneficiaries of the applications submitted, and the relevant legal rules must be established accordingly. The bill is 10. § 2 of the Act clarifies the objectives for which innovation aid may be granted under the NRDI Fund and the provisions governing proposals. Again, this is an important form of regulation, but at the same time it greatly promotes predictability and predictability. It sets out the role of the NRDI Office, the mandate of its President, how and how to evaluate the tender submitted, how expert groups should be set up, and, of course, provides that these should be managed with sufficient flexibility adapted to the needs, obviously the corresponding financial engineering instruments are also allocated. I think that, overall, this proposal will be well suited to the positive processes in the field of R &amp; D and innovation that have already started, and therefore the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy can be further enhanced and the export activity of the Hungarian economy and its ability to generate GDP even more. I trust that this bill, this proposal, will find broad support for all parties in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-246	Thank you, Congressman László Pósán. I now give the floor to Mr Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-20-247	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us can once be seen rather superficially as essentially regulating what institutional system should be used to manage the new sectoral governance, if I may say so in summary. I do not wish to classify this bill in this regard, because it is logical from the new sectoral structure, and it is in fact possible to agree with that, although what you said in Mr. State Secretary's exposé is that we will definitely achieve the long-term strategic objectives, I think that will depend not only on this, but also on a lot of other things. The same applies to changes of a truly technical nature such as the transfer of GDPR or similar, indeed technical, parts of this bill. But in a second step, I would ask my fellow Members to look a little behind. On the one hand, in relation to the interpretation provisions, I would like to quote the sentence of the reasoning, if I may quote here, that some of the additions also serve the purpose of using the concepts not previously included in the legislation in uniform interpretation by the policy actors. How do I put this? it is not a reassuring statement, because that means that this has not been used by the actors in the policy so far. I understand that between basic research and applied research, I am convinced that a sharp line cannot be drawn, and here again, I can tell you my precious example of the 40 years of research by my colleagues of ELTE researchers on the migration of swarms of birds and fish, which will allow me to conduct the drones. So I'd like to see you here, if I may say so, as an acceptable lawyer, how should I put it? In addition to clarity of the concept, I would consider a holistic approach to support our science policy. It shows that the interpretation of the basic concepts here is so necessary for the participants in the policy, this is a very serious criticism, I think, for the players to date. And which is perhaps the most critical example of this approach if we look a little behind things... I will not surprise my fellow Members if I say that at a time when, let us say, the Presidency of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has taken a stand against, say, the possible confiscation of the 70 billion-dollar assets, let us say, even a lawsuit against the competent ones. [[22.30]] I mean, if I look a little further into this law, it's 14. In the section on the transitional regulation of the position of secretary-general, it is not entirely by accident that it came before this House, as the Secretary-General of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network is currently in an exlex state, and its legitimacy is questionable, because it should have been entrusted by way of a tender according to the legislation in force, but now the colleague is writing letters to the Institute Directors of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, namely that the management of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences does not know about this, and President Lovás is informed by the Institute Directors. So I think this could be a very, very serious threat to the government. I do not think that would help Hungarian science flourish in any way. On the contrary! While we are here in this House, the World Science Forum is taking place in Budapest, where the Hungarian government is not represented. I will be there as rapporteur for academic freedom and university autonomy at the Council of Europe. And you, my fellow Member, Pósán, continue to do the same in front of the international public, the Association of European Academys, and this is a logical continuation of the former law, which belongs to the same anti-intellectual and anti-scientific line, which characterizes Fidesz's policy. Jobbik is a national party for science and innovation. We will not support this outrage. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-20-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-20-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The need to adopt this bill is justified by the need to gradually increase the proportion of public funding of R &amp; D to GDP in order to strengthen the capacity, efficiency and economic development of the Hungarian research system. However, it is essential to develop a new organisational and financing model for R &amp; D and innovation, which will allow for a more uniform allocation of resources in time and for the long term operation of research programmes and of the tendering system. The progressive concentration of resources based on the remuneration of institutional, group or individual performances can reduce the fragmentation and fragmentation of the system. In line with the Commission's recommendation, it is necessary to develop evaluation and funding procedures for research projects and project proposals in order to reduce and maximise the fragmentation of the public research system. In addition, it is necessary to increase the performance-based concentration of public funding research grants and to cooperate more closely with all actors in the system in order to improve quality and efficiency. The main message of the current bill is that it is an essential condition for Hungary to increase its competitiveness so that R &amp; D and innovation resources are used more effectively and in line with strategic objectives. Subject to this objective, the scope and scope of their cooperation will be clarified by the public actors involved in research, development and innovation policy-making in the Scientific Research, Development and Innovation Act. The amendment also includes the president of the research institute network, Eötvös Loránd Research Network, which started its operation on 1 September, among the public actors shaping R &amp; D and innovation policies. The aim of the Institute, which carries out the public tasks of R &amp; D and scientific policy coordination, is to ensure the distribution of available resources between disciplines and research institutes in a coherent structure, thus helping to optimise the efficiency of the Hungarian research system, innovation and R &amp; D. In addition, the proposal streamlines and simplifies the system of domestic public funding for R &amp; D and innovation. The bill also clarifies the objectives for which innovation aid may be granted under the Fund. The detailed objectives include supporting the application and dissemination of new scientific and technological results resulting from R &amp; D and innovation. Among the objectives, I think it is important to highlight the exponential involvement of the young generation in R &amp; D and innovation activities. Innovation support can be provided for R &amp; D recruitment and training, talent management. In addition, sharing experience so far is an important and supportive goal, such as supporting the mobility, exchange of experiences and the professional integration of renowned return researchers in the field of innovation in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, This amendment of the Scientific Research, Development and Innovation Act contributes to the more efficient use of R &amp; D and innovation resources and helps to achieve social goals, by strengthening cooperation between the system actors, to the effective implementation of domestic R &amp; D and innovation activities and thereby to increase Hungary's competitiveness. The excellent results of the Hungarian economy in recent years allow Hungary to play a prominent role in research and development and innovation in an internationally recognised way, so I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-20-250	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I now give the floor to the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi.
u2019-11-20-251	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, After seeing in the last year how the government has abolished the freedom of scientific research in Hungary, how it has deprived MTA of its research network, or it has clearly violated its fundamental right to property in a fundamental way, even according to the weekly news, the government continues its frontal attack on the MTA. At the end of October, the former research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences received a letter from the Secretary General of the Eötvös Loránd Research Institute Network, in which Ádám Szigeti asked the directors and directors of the 15 Institutes to distribute their movable property in their balance sheets from members of the Academy. In that letter, the Secretary-General argues that until the research network was set up in September, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences carried out its public task of scientific research through the research network with budgetary support. Therefore, the property purchased by the Institute from the budget of the MTA, from the support transferred to the research centres and from its own revenue is considered to be the property of the research institute, i.e. ultimately public property. Dear House, It's nothing but nationalization. My fellow Member Brenner Koloman mentioned that the World Science Forum is in Budapest, which I think is a big deal. It is very regrettable that, although the President of the Republic has opened it, the government is not represented; they obviously do not want to face the fact that, while elsewhere it is considered important and science is flourishing, it is being trampled at home and indeed they could not have said anything to their own colleagues. It is very difficult to say anything about this anti-intellectuality and science, therefore the MSZP does not support this bill.
u2019-11-20-252	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-11-20-253	Thank you very much. When you see this bill for the first time and Mr. Secretary of State talked about it, you'd think they had nothing else to do with the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. [[Tamás Schanda: Technological!]] In the Ministry of Technology, I'm sorry that there's only one problem left: to correct the definitions after the stormy legislation over the summer. Congressman Pósán has shown this with the picture of a dynamically moving train that he is arriving at new stations. [[Dr. László Pósán's intervention.]] [[22.40]] But he said... Well, he didn't say anything about a train, it was my imagination, he just said we were going on and on: more stations. Well, that's why we're here... so it's not that there's such a planned process here, where we're moving from station to station, it's more about how we managed to produce a piece of legislation of such low quality in the big rush in the summer, that there was a lot that wasn't properly done, and the Ministry thought that the long winter nights would come, that they'd be free, that they'd hang them out and fix them. It's always such an important ministerial replacement act to improve definitions in the law, isn't it? You might think that's what this is about, but of course not. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State would not have come here to spend a pleasant evening with us and would not have taken advantage of the members of the Parliament, which were already quite overwhelmed. It is rather a matter of unfortunately, or unfortunately not, I think, unfortunately, because if this freak has already been created, they have created a new organization that they want to integrate into this institutional system as a third player, by the way, completely unnecessary, we have talked about three-wheel motorcycles today, so you can imagine that if something else worked well with the innovation agency and the MTA, they will put in a third wheel. But it looks like they didn't functionally hit where to put this wheel, so a series of things couldn't be created and operated the way they imagined it or thought it would. My fellow Members have mentioned it, and I would also like to mention that one of their main problems is clearly that the Minister could not get his executive in a position sufficiently strong, because they made the mistake of submitting a proposal for a position bearing a similar surreal name as the Secretary-General of the Secretariat. This is the position that has the power, because we understand that it is not his job to deal with scientific policy details. His primary task is to be enthusiastic about the Prime Minister's Middle East policy, whatever it is, and he is doing this very well. So Mr Szigeti should run this otherwise rather large organization here, but he has no authority whatsoever. That's why this bill came before us. But we must ask the question, however, that if, now in this law, a preposterous rule is made that, until I have been able to put out a tender, I do not know what the obstacle is, so I find it difficult to imagine what is causing this difficulty, especially if you already know who will win it, because I think, Mr Szigeti, but until this is done, it is temporarily the secretariat of the secretariat of the secretariat, or something similar, the Prime Minister and his circle of friends, whom you have appointed there, that can appoint this secretary-general. The person who replaces the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General, i.e. two persons in one person, we immediately understand KDNP's enthusiasm. But the point is, in this way, you are now trying to resolve a situation that has, by the way, come up with such a rather incomprehensible temporary rule. Then I would like to ask you a question: if this is the time to settle this by law, if there has not been a tender, if there has not been a secretary-general, on what basis does he write letters to the directors of the institutions? What is the basis for writing letters that might easily be carried out by the Institute Directors, if they were to commit a crime? How does this organization work? How does this great research infrastructure work if they are unable to meet such basic legal and organisational conditions? As for Mrs Hajnalka Juhász and her enthusiasm for how good it will be for young researchers, we agree that it will be really good for young researchers, because they will leave this country because they will be driven away with this science policy. Only the country will be bad because it loses the scientific elite of the future. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-254	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-11-20-255	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In many respects, I agree with my fellow Members, my fellow opposition Members, but I would argue with Mr Arató on one thing, although I think he did not think so either, obviously it will not be good for emigration researchers, and they would also like to work at home if they were given the honor of getting a decent salary for their work. Mr State Secretary introduced this bill by saying once that they want to increase Hungary's competitiveness. I have been listening, Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, if I recall correctly, you mentioned three times the increase in competitiveness. My fellow member of the Government or secretary of state, what kind of competitiveness are they talking about when today the salary of a university assistant in Hungary is HUF 185 thousand net? The salary of an assistant professor who has a university degree is HUF 147 thousand net? We have just had a long debate on the problems of the transport sector, and we may have agreed that bus drivers make an outrageous amount of money, but even a starting bus driver makes more money than a university assistant in Hungary, who is already doing doctoral training in most cases. So in particular, a university assistant in Hungary today earns as much as a loader. How do you expect to talk about Hungary's competitiveness at all? You will spend 30 billion forints less on higher education next year. Today, the proportion of graduates in Hungary is much worse than in the European Union, and the government is doing everything in its power to reduce the number of students. It is no wonder, too, that Mr Arató mentioned that teachers, researchers are leaving their own profession, or leaving the country, trying to find a place where they appreciate their work. Well, that's a shame. And what is now a related problem, which we are seeing here in the context of the regulation of doctoral schools, the appointments of professors, will only increase this uncertainty again, so it will make it impossible for researchers to return, but it will not motivate them to do so in any way. What I can tell you is that the Hungarian government does not understand 21st century. The challenges of the 20th century, the Hungarian government does not want to increase competitiveness, it simply wants to make a assembly country from this country. This is quite shameful, and this bill will, of course, be rejected by the opposition. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-256	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. I will give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, for two minutes after we have reached the end of the keynote speeches.
u2019-11-20-257	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think it's a lot easier to make all these modifications because of why they even started doing this. It's very simple, because of the money. The European Union has clearly stated that the focus will be shifted over the next budget cycle, there will be much more resources available for innovation purposes, these resources have been less impacted by the government so far, and it would have wanted to have a greater impact. That's what all these proposals are about. It is not about competitiveness, nor about transparency, nor in any way. Now, of course, when they ran with it, of course, they spoiled a lot on the way. They're trying to explain this, but the basic truth is that it's all about resources: who's gonna have them, and who's gonna be able to decide who gets them, and then get them back in friends' pockets at the end. Lőrinc Mészáros hasn't broken into this market yet, but it won't be long now, and he's gonna break in here for the next seven years. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman László Pósán for two minutes.
u2019-11-20-259	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I have the feeling, as with vocational training, that, in essence, you want to open up a new general debate on a law already adopted by a number of Members. Then we have told you that in many cases you have made your point, and there is no point in starting over. [[22.50]] However, I would like to note to Brenner Koloman and to all the Members who underestimate this law from the perspective of concepts, to draw up the 2014 text and to draw up the current text, and it is very spectacular how much difference there is. For example, in the case of applied research, the text of Law 14 states that applied research, the acquisition of new knowledge, knowledge, expertise, new products, processes, technologies, and the rest, and the rest, to facilitate further development. Compared to this, the present includes, in particular, the development of prototypes, the development of simulated systems under laboratory conditions, experimental series productions, and so on and so forth. It is not at all indifferent to what and to what extent resources can be provided from public funds, for example, and this is therefore necessary. I would also like to note that there have been issues that are not even in the law. For example, Mr László Keresztes talked about the regulation of doctoral schools. There's no such thing in the law, I don't know how you get it. And if you are referring to how and how to proceed with the different ratings, I would like to note that, for example, the rule that university teacher applications do not require a doctorate, the Hungarian Parliament adopted it in 2005 and, to my knowledge, it was the socialists and the free democrats who were ruling at the time. That's what the law says. So I don't really know what you're talking about. But there's no such thing in the current law, that's for sure. Gergely Harvestó misses the tender. Obviously, it's not my place to say, but until the system has been able to create new ones, it's hard to put out a tender. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-260	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2019-11-20-261	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the supporting contributions and for those that did not support the adoption of the bill. Allow me, however, to reflect on what has been said in the debate with a few sentences. Several Members and Members mentioned the property issues raised in the press in the last few days in connection with the MTA. The fact is that the government does not have any business here at all, since it is the property accounting of two independent entities from the government. As far as I know, neither the ELKH nor the MTA are under government control, so we don't have to deal with this. Moreover, the law does not make any statement in this regard. I do not understand the criticism of the World Science Forum because the President of Hungary, János Áder, is taking part in the forum, and there is also a State Secretary from the Hungarian government, who is also present at this conference. So I do not fully understand the doubts in this regard, nor do I understand who they would have liked to see in any way if the President of the Republic and a State Secretary were not enough. With regard to the concept system, I would just like to emphasise once again that we wanted to adopt an international framework for interpretation in line with the OECD and the Frascati Handbook. This is necessary to make the Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation system more integrated into international R &amp; D systems. Allow me to go over one thing. I think that it is embarrassing to criticize Professor Maróth's professional competence, scientific recognition and international recognition. I think we're talking about a professor, an internationally recognized scientist, who's all over the board. It is unworthy to make any criticism of him. Allow me to mention two things regarding higher education wages. Wages in higher education have increased by 27 percent since 2010. Let's see how much they didn't rise before. On the other hand, let us also look at the fact that rating wages and otherwise returned income differ significantly in the case of a significant number of teachers and researchers, since research and development resources, whether domestic or EU research and development resources, can represent a significant surplus of income for academic or research colleagues. I would like to strongly reject the suggestion by Congressman Mesterházy that there is any ulterior motive behind this transformation and that this has anything to do with EU funds. I strongly reject that. Just because the Member knows you and I assume that you are aware of the system of EU funds on European Union and international issues, he is well aware that research and development and innovation is primarily subject to direct applications from Brussels, which Member State governments do not have a say in. Instead, we should be fighting, and we are doing so; unfortunately, in most cases, opposition representatives are not talking about it, but this is what they are talking about, while the European Commission wants to increase these directly divisible resources in Brussels, while it wants to reduce the money that the Member States can distribute. This is only a problem because the Member States that joined after 2004, which represent 20% of the European Union's population, have access to less than 5 percent of these direct resources in Brussels. This is certainly not good for Hungary or for the countries of the region. I hope I've answered all the questions that have been raised. Allow me to thank you once again for what has been said in the debate, in particular for the supporting contributions. And allow me once again to ask that you support the bill and accept it in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-262	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A bill amending certain laws concerning the functioning of Parliament and the status of Members and the provisions of certain regulations of the House 10/2014. Continue and conclude the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision amending the parliamentary decision. The bill submitted by representatives of Máté Kocsis, László Böröcz, István Bajkai, János Halász, Csaba Hende, Fideszes, and Imre Vejkey, Péter Harrach, representatives of Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP, T/8044. and the proposal for a decision is H/8042. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I would like to remind you that during the start of the general debate, the opening speech by the author, the speeches by the lead speaker, the speech by the first independent Member to speak, and the voice by the national minority spokesperson took place. Dear Parliament, The further speeches by the Members now follow the fact that our fellow Members have made themselves known in advance in writing. In the first round of speakers, I give the floor to Mrs Márta Mátrai, Mrs Housekeeper, Fidesz.
u2019-11-20-263	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have a bill, parts of which should not even be discussed, because the rules of tradition, culture and public policy have been known for centuries, even though some people sometimes forget about them. The bill before us contains a number of clarifications, practical guidance and technical amendments to the functioning of the Parliament. Many paragraphs in the Act serve better clarity, practical application, as the use of the symbol of the Parliament, the maintenance of conflicts of interest or quorum. The amendment before us is not about any restriction on Members' rights, but my fellow Members know it as well. [[23.00]] As regards the proposal, the biggest public-law excitement was triggered by the order of parliamentary operation and the extent of the rights of representatives. The biggest incomprehensibility of opposition speakers also revolves around the rules of parliamentary conduct. They act as if obsceneness, road trip, bobble, obstruction, threats are part of parliamentary speech law, it would be a natural part of Parliament's work, as if a Member should not and should not have to comply with the rules of parliamentary conduct. We could ask the question, but why? For Members of Parliament who know history well, who are familiar with parliamentary traditions, who understand the social importance of civilised public speech in their speech and behaviour, there is no need for strict legislation on the discipline of parliamentary presence. The parliamentary order, which is enshrined in the house rules of the parties concerned, is essentially a right of self-discipline. There would be no need for legislation if everyone understood and understood their legislative powers. The orderly functioning of Parliament is synonymous with the orderly life of the country, which means maintaining the country from a public authority's point of view. Imagine the country's governance that is failing the inability to decide because of the series of parliamentary anarchies. In the course of its work, all Members are entitled to exercise the criticism of government, to consult and express their opinion individually or in accordance with the interests of the group, which is permitted by the Fundamental Law, the Parliamentary Act and the House Rule. Of course, the quality of this is fundamentally determined by the preparedness of each person, the richness of thought and the correct knowledge of their own political goals. The main scene of the opinions and criticisms is the parliamentary sitting, the content of which is the functioning of the Parliament. My fellow Members also make use of the possibility of criticism to all kinds of standards. The parts of the amendment that I raise before us do not, in essence, contain more than the limits of the conduct of Members of Parliament, because sometimes they become very blurry. The criticism, expression and freedom of speech of its representatives should not be confused with obscene speech, disruption of the working order, and an act of stumbling. Such attitudes create deep shock, fear, and outrage in citizens, those who watch us for a reason. I believe that a Member of Parliament should set an example in his appearance, in the use of the Hungarian language, in his culture of conduct, in respect of legislation. Misleading behaviour reflects badly on Parliament, Members, Members' work, and undermines the respect of Parliament. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] This is true, even if the Strasbourg human rights court is the opposition, you cheat, you steal, you lie! As an illustration, he found it appropriate in the meeting room, although I would like to know the effect of the thieves, traitors, counterfeit carders and Molinos addressed to the opposition from the pro-government line. Think about the end of such a blackboard war and what it would say to Hungarian citizens. If there is still common sense, think about where this type of dialogue would lead! A high European court can also be mistaken in its comfortable, party-free solitude. Sadly, some do not understand or feel this, especially it is difficult to explain this to those who also misinterpret the Bible proverb. Therefore, it is necessary to establish for everyone the boundaries of what we accept and what we reject in order to protect tradition, the authority of Parliament. Continuing disorderly conduct is still part of our negotiations, our everyday life, which led almost legally to the preparation of this amendment. Continual, defamatory statements go beyond the limit for which the case law provides for a higher tolerance threshold for a Member. The amendment of the Parliamentary Act before us contains a detailed list of forms of conduct where the warning no longer leads to results, where the law allows for more stringent measures. The Hungarian Parliament has been a well-functioning, disciplined community in many respects for decades, with many differences of opinion, of course. It is therefore incomprehensible, when some, who knows for what reason, want to meet the interest of the media rather than the functioning of the Parliament. That is why there are sometimes scandalous spectacles, telephobic running around the Chamber, because some Members do not want to express their objections to the government, but to the public, in which there is a desire to act, a message to sympathizers, sometimes to supporters about personal standing, or to send out a message asking for their goals abroad. Last time, before Parliament or at the headquarters of public television, they wanted political violence recognised as part of the right to speak. The opposition representatives, who are loud and moody, also know that speeches and spectacular disorderly conduct of this content are suitable to draw attention to themselves. On the other hand, it is the duty of the government and the pro-government representatives to present their plans, the expected measures and their reasons for the good functioning of the country, as well as to convey the values that the public will has established. That's what the media platform is for, which is the mission. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The second part I would like to address is the scope of Members' rights. During Parliament's participation, there are a number of possibilities for audit by Members: questioning, interpellation, access to documents and personal inquiry at the disposal of Members of Parliament. The right of control and supervision outside the Parliament is not unlimited and may not be enforced at any time. I would add, of course, that even Parliament has a number of comments. The right to information and control of Members is not a private action, not a pro-government or opposition right, because in the case of Members, it can be derived from the uniform right to control the Parliament. Parliamentary MEPs are not given private authority by voters to control public institutions, their election is not a private individual who, by virtue of the law, has extra rights compared to citizens, but, as Members of Parliament, as members of the Supreme People's Representative, the additional powers of control are valid. The law combines this with a definition in the performance of their duties. In the context of the tasks of the MP, the Parliament extends its supervisory powers to public institutions, but with its questions and information it cannot cross the limits of the administration of tasks. The fact that the Member is entitled to enter public institutions and public administrations can only be done in a manner regulated by the competent minister by keeping the order of operation. The Member of Parliament is not above the law in public institutions either, so it is good for everyone to note that for themselves. The presence of legal representatives in the public institution shall be governed by the operational rules of the institution. In this respect, the Member of Parliament entitled to enter shall also be a national under the authority of the institution's management. A visit by representatives to public institutions is a possible form of exercise of the right of supervision. A written request to the head of the institution to be visited, to the responsible official, or during personal contact, shall indicate the purpose, the reasons for the visit and the scope of the claimants entitled to do so. [[23.10]] The Director of the institution shall designate the persons entrusted with the performance of the task, the possible dates of the visit and the parts of the institution where Members may be informed as requested. The visit shall be carried out only without disrupting the operation of the public service, by keeping the rules on the operating order. Eligibility is not the same as disrupting the functioning of public institutions. In order to avoid this, the institution should be provided with a visit in a manner that can be planned. It is not possible to disrupt a hospital, a railway plant, radio operation with unexpected appearances, group visits, or the distribution of arbitrary political advertising in public institutions. This is what the preliminary announcement in the bill before us is for. Public institutions are not the jobs of Members, as some of my fellow Members have mistakenly referred to. The Parliamentary Representative's workplace is the Parliament and related facilities. At the same time, you can visit public institutions and let them in, but the possibility of entry and control is given by the nature of the operation of the workplace. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only ask everyone, whether they are pro-government or opposition representatives, to look at Hungarian history, the past of the Hungarian people, the fight that served the survival of the Hungarian people. The choice is between survival and indifference to our destiny. The essence of the parliamentary order which governs this country is survival. Anyone who understands this is so natural that it is not worth talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone to accept the amendments, because this, I think, is in the interests of all of us and in the interests of preserving the dignity of Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. A voice from the opposition: Whoo!]]
u2019-11-20-264	Thank you very much, ma'am. We will continue our work with the speakers announced in advance. Welcome, everyone, to this active hour. Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik, please.
u2019-11-20-265	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to address two specific regulatory issues, namely the issue of group formation and the replacement of the banned representative. With regard to the formation of a political group, the amendment states that during the term of office of the independent and independent Member, he cannot participate in the formation of a political group and he cannot join a political group. The principle behind this, the logic, is that if only in relation to the party list reached 5 percent in the election, the formation of a faction is better reflected in the electoral will. Of course, there is logic in this, but Fidesz seems to be applying it in connection with its political interests at the moment or not. In 1998, the Hungarian Truth and Life Party reached 5.5 percent, crossing the threshold of 5 percent. At the same time, however, at the time, the other possibility of forming a faction, which was defined by Parliament because of the proper organisation of work, was 15. Fidesz showed no willingness to change the number of people to meet the most important reason, of course, so that the MIÉP could form its faction, they did not want to give committee seats. Finally, of course, we turned to the Constitutional Court, which, with retroactive effect on the day of the preliminary negotiations, annulled the provision of the house rule which did not allow the formation of a faction of a party that exceeded 5 per cent. So it was judged differently then, then the number was considered a fundamental reason. By the way, let me say that the Constitutional Court, when it made its decision as usual, justified it on 12 pages and covered the whole issue. The fact that I am referring to this now, of course, I know that there is a new constitution from 2011, but the constitutional principles that the Constitutional Court has then taken into account are still valid. The Constitutional Court stated this in the explanatory statement: "Free mandate is the basis for the status of representatives. Members of Parliament who have resigned or are excluded from the party shall remain unharmed and participate in the work of a party faction as part of the exercise of the free mandate of the elected representative. So he made the possibility of accession clear on the basis of constitutional principles. In addition to the free mandate, another basis for the functioning of Parliament is the activities of political parties organised within Parliament, and in this connection the grounds of the Constitutional Court have made it clear that in this way Parliament can determine and define a number of members, where it is possible to form the faction for Members who are independent, but who cooperate in a certain way. Make no mistake. I am not here to defend the fact that, if, by the way, the cohesion of the party does not work, the faction will have a chance. I would just like to point out that you have been trying to eliminate an opportunity since 1990, since the House Rule at that time, which has raised serious constitutional concerns. The other issue is the replacement of the banned representative. You may order your fellow Member to vote in his place and on his behalf for the entire duration of the banning of the banned Member, in a quotation mark, in accordance with his intention. This is unacceptable! On the one hand, it violates the principle of equality in the mandate of Members and, on the other hand, it transfers the personal mandate of the Member elected in the single mandate constituencies to another, which cannot be done. The person in charge shall have two votes. One by clicking a button, and one, if I interpret it correctly, will be an open vote to indicate that the person who gave him the order would vote otherwise. I ask you, in this case, if you vote in a way that doesn't match the assignor, what kind of sanction you get. No sanctions are involved. The other important question is: in such a case, what is the intention of a Member who has been banned for a month or 30 days or 60 days? That complicated voting scenarios will be handed over by the banned congressman to the replacement? And how does a vote work? Where appropriate, the adoption or rejection of a previous amendment may determine what the final vote should be. So it doesn't just work by voting no or voting yes. But in any case, the person who received the power of attorney has two votes. You can say that, in the end, the Members of the Group, when it comes to them, are voting on the basis of a joint group proposal. There's just one big difference. First, they do not always follow these instructions in the most disciplined faction. On a very sensitive issue yesterday, including the list of agents, where Fidesz-KDNP had a firm, negative position, two Members voted against it. And it's also different when I hear a suggestion from the faction's supervisor, yes or no, and on that basis, I decide whether or not to follow this proposal. And that's not the same as when the joint recommendation of the faction instead of someone is expressed as his vote. According to the client's intentions, once again, we should pass on some extra voting scenarios to the commissioner, and once again, there is no penalty for him to vote otherwise. By the way, you can say that the Commission's replacements are now the same, that there are two-handed votes. [[23.20]] Jobbik has turned to the Constitutional Court to declare its unconstitutionality, but unfortunately, you have changed the Law on the Constitutional Court in such a way that, accordingly, a parliamentary group was no longer fit to deal with the motion it submitted. As I understand it, we now need the signature of 50 Members, which is, among other reasons, the creation of a cooperation between opposition parties, where appropriate. But I have tabled the amendment of the house rules to abolish this two-handed vote, which is indeed a violation of the principle of equal mandate, since a new proposal could be taken on board by a two-thirds majority of the committee, and it could not be commissioned by the person who, by the way, filled this out in Bianko many times. Well, that's on the Justice Committee. What was your position on this? They didn't say anything. What was the vote? Without a vote, it comes to pass: no, it was rejected. He wasn't voted against, he was refused with abstention. In Hungarian, they have indicated that I am right about this initiative, but they will not accept it for convenience. By the way, moving to general questions after these two specific cases: yes, I admit that giving back the dignity of Parliament is a joint responsibility. One of the most serious actions, which I personally condemned and which would offend the dignity of Parliament, took place here on the opposition side by presenting a obscene table. However, I have to ask: is it only in this way, using words, that obscenely manifest, or is there intellectual obscenity? Yeah, and I'll give you an example. In response to the interpellation of my fellow Member, the competent secretary of state replied:, If we are talking about immigration, it is well known that Jobbik is a community of pro-immigration associations, pro-immigration politicians, as all their allies are pro-immigration, and the entire opposition, and you would also tear down the fence, as your favourite ally, Ferenc Gyurcsány, would. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, This is nothing more than a cynical lie committed with premeditated intent on the basis of depraved political reasons, which basically violates the dignity of this Parliament. Anyway, let me add why I was upset. Jobbik gave the two-thirds majority to the Fidesz initiative when it was said that the defence could be mobilised for border protection. For the so-called legal border closure, Jobbik gave the vote for the two-thirds majority. We do not deserve praise for it, for we have done it out of conviction, but the fact that it is said here is intolerable. Let me give you a personal example. On 2 December 2015, at the meeting of the European Parliament in Brussels, the issue was the Hungarian situation. It was only one subject: the condemnation of the Hungarian border protection. Viktor Orbán did not attend this meeting, and accordingly, a single Fidesz politician did not appear, and when many Hungarian Balliberal Members also demanded sanctions against Hungary, I was the only representative who defended the Hungarian government and the Secretary of State then told this obscene lie. Anyway, let me say a few words about what it means to be our allies. Let's make this clear. At this local elections Jobbik also worked with representatives of parties with whom it does not otherwise engage in a community at ideological level. I think it's mutual. And we did well to cooperate, it was a matter of local affairs, not immigration, no matter how much Lajos Kósa wanted to shift the stakes of the election; we did well to cooperate; in many places we managed to replace corrupt and fidesz leadership as governor. However, this does not mean that we are in an alliance in a general sense. We are also cooperating on specific matters in this Parliament. In fact, not only opposition parties, but also, where appropriate, government parties. At the same time, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary does not operate in an alliance with any party. By the way, let me close by with a quote on this pulpit in this Parliament on 8 May 2017. János Áder said: "The quality of our speech has recently deteriorated dramatically. I don't want to be responsible for all this here and now, but because of the political diversity, it's always government parties. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-266	Thank you very much. It's Congresswoman Márta Demeter, LMP. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-267	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the right of Members to information has become very important in recent years. For over the last ten years, Fidesz has, unfortunately, put more and more walls in front of the public and accountability of the government. It has become almost impossible to obtain public information, in most cases, ministries and public bodies do not respond to requests for data in cases where people are rightfully employed, and often even after lawsuits, they are not willing to disclose information that is indeed a matter for Hungarian taxpayers. The government of Fidesz has become a government of secrecy, and the experience is that this is not a coincidence. It often turns out that where there is government secrecy, there is also a reason why the government should be afraid of the public. Your government is bound by corruption, which is why the public is your enemy, against which, it seems, their entire weapons arsenal is being used. The work of Members of Parliament has therefore been transformed in recent years, and the monitoring of the functioning of the government has become even more important, and the control of what the government is spending hundreds of billions of people on and whether it is doing so in compliance with the laws is almost exclusively possible through the work of elected representatives. Your stubborn attachment to secrecy led us to be the first to fight for publicity, because we had the most opportunities. The Hungarian people have not received any meaningful information from you about how and how the government spends their money. A few billboards for ten billion dollars are still not credible information. I think Hungarian people deserve more respect from this. We're not going to state institutions because we have nothing better to do. We are going there to let the Hungarian people know the things that you should bring to the public in the first place, and they will not do so. We have no better proof that we are doing this work effectively than the government is now trying to take this right away from Members. We understand, of course, that they will say that they will receive us after prior consultation, but we know precisely that as soon as we announce to some state institution, at that moment, the shredders of documents, special rooms for opposition representatives will be prepared, or the Ministry buildings will be soaked in a special way, I will say a few words about this, which, of course, will only lead to the destruction of a document that we have requested. Or they will simply reject the visiting initiative of their representatives, as has been the case many times before, by unfortunately not having the right time for government officials. And how the ministries get wet is an extremely good example of this: the disappearance of an oral list of the appointment of an honorary Consul of the Jordanian Zaid Naffa, in which the Hungarian Prime Minister himself asked and the Hungarian Government proposed that Zaid Naffa be the honorary Consul of Jordan here in Hungary, who is now well known to have failed the terrorist risk analysis. [[23.30]] When I was going to look at this oral list, the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs came up with an amazingly large file containing hundreds of pages, and by the way, saying that it was soaked in the Ministry's file, the only document was destroyed and soaked, so that the other hundreds of documents, of course, remained untouched in the same file, so such strange things happen. By the way, the Hungarian police found that there was no crime, that, by the way, a protected, guarded document had disappeared and was destroyed. Your current proposal is, in part, an attack on the rights of opposition representatives. This is about the rights of the Hungarian people. Your proposal is a violent attack on the public and the electorate, another massive brick in the wall Fidesz intends to put between the people who exercise power and the voters. You refuse to obey your own employers, the Hungarian people, because it could only be governed by their will, with their interests in mind and accounted for. You are desperately looking for newer and more opportunities so that people can't see what's going on in the posters and behind the image that's being forced onto us in reality. I would like to remind you that many opposition representatives are trying to present information on government operations to the Hungarian people. I'm the only one that's in the process of making 24 public-interest requests. There are only a few examples of the questions they refuse to answer to the public: the contracts of the water vb; the benefits of the state's ex-Macedon Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski; the GRECO corruption report; the data on the former KGST bank; the cost of the so-called non-government machines; the cost of spending the 1400 billion forints of people for protection; the fact that the tragic situation of the emergency department of the Honvéd Hospital, for example, was at the ministerial meeting. My fellow Members, do we really need to sue for these answers in Hungary today? ! Of course, your current proposal is not without precedent. You are constantly restricting the possibilities of control and the ability to know information of public interest after any situation where you are uncomfortable. In this context, I would share my own experience from 2014 to today. First, they began to deny answers to written questions, or they did not respond to any meaningful answers. The debates of the laws were then shortened at the plenary session, each time speaking only and only at the end of the debate, so that opposition representatives could not react by accident. Then the mini-kits were suddenly absent from committee meetings, hiding from the questions, and later the committees did not put on the agenda any reports or current matters that had previously been discussed, and even the substantive political and substantive debates were not held in the committees, which, of course, could not be held on any opposition initiative, nor could the issues raised by the opposition be placed on the agenda of committee meetings. And unfortunately, this situation has not improved, but has deteriorated further. The mission of the defence forces, which would have been to explore the difficulties caused by drastically reduced resources, was suddenly only possible in a group, i.e. under the guardianship of pro-government representatives, instead of spontaneous information. Later, it took a period of one year to negotiate the dates, and then, if there was any possibility of visiting at all, it could only be done by the staff of the Ministry of Defence, who checked the questions of the Members and the staff, and what they dared to answer at all, to which, of course, the authorities of the Ministry were not willing to answer locally. Then the minister's chief of staff took action, and now he's stuck in the commanding officer of the squad, and then he's refusing to answer. Thus, for example, one of the local commanders could not answer my question, representing the stock, that he would pay them at all locally to overwork and overwork. All of this, I stress, would have been a legal obligation for those present there. Then they also refused to respond to data requests in the public interest, so we have to sue for everything so that we are currently in the process of these 24 requests, unfortunately this number seems to be increasing in the future. It was one of the peaks of the tragic situation when we tried to find out about the tragic situation in the emergency department at the Honvéd Hospital with our leader of the group Lóránt Keresztes, but the commander of the hospital refused to inform us of his legal duty. Of course, that's why we filed a lawsuit. The Ministry of Defence replied that, unconstitutionally, it limits Members' information in a regulation by sending our questions in advance to the Ministry in writing. Of course, we also went to the Constitutional Court for this reason. And here I would like to stress that it was a serious matter, where, unfortunately, several people died in the Honvéd Hospital, and it seems that the emergency department is becoming increasingly tragic and dangerous. Otherwise, the provision of millions of people could be at risk if this does not resolve. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Wednesday, 20 November 2019 95/3. Number Parliamentary Diary After that, they reached the point where, for example, the Prime Minister's business with the people and wanted to finance terrorism, and the guarantee that the Prime Minister could give Hungarian people that he was not the biggest national security risk in this country, all he could do was to say: "Merry Christmas! It adds to all this that they are now abolishing all information in law. This will basically eliminate the possibility of controlling security agencies in addition to other government institutions, and from now on, it will be uncontrollable to the use of the military, the police and the secret services. In addition to constitutional and political concerns, the lack of effective control over military, police and secret service leaders and the government members who control them may pose a threat to people in two respects: on the one hand, in the absence of control, the military and other institutions may become self-propelled, which, in the most extreme cases, may lead to the failure to implement decisions made by the elected representatives of the people and by constitutional actors; but on the other hand, the same danger is that if the current government can have security institutions excluded from parliamentary control, in its own political terms, without accounting. It is therefore easy to see that any scenario can lead to a very serious internal crisis and harm to the security of Hungarian people, which I think should not be allowed to stand a chance. To sum up, therefore, my fellow Members, you are clinging increasingly to power and, unfortunately, more aggressively. There's nothing to think about but that they're afraid of losing power. However, do not be overconfident, we will find a way to keep our work in the future with the same efficiency and, if possible, with even greater intensity, whatever they will try to prevent it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-11-20-268	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Two-minute speeches will follow, the first of which will be Ms Ágnes Vadai, DK. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have observed what Mrs Márta Mátrai has to say, and I hope that I quote it precisely, because she said that a Member of Parliament creates a situation in both his appearance and his behaviour and the use of the Hungarian language to be worthy of Parliament and to build the authority of the Parliament. If you'll excuse me, and I'd like to apologize in advance, a few quotes will follow. Take off your clothes, Agi, where's the babydoll? They yelled at me as pro-government representatives. What are you talking about, girl? They yelled at Szabó Timea; he was a pro-government representative. The meeting of the board is not the gossip center of the hairdresser's salon. Mr. Secretary of State Németh told Márta Demeter. Congresswoman Kunhalmi, you can nuance your beauty with all the yelling. He said, if I remember correctly, that János Latorcai was from there as vice president. And to my fellow Member Bernadett Wind, when he said in a speech on the agenda that the government was first to strike and then asked questions, Mr Tasó was able to reply only to you. [[23.40]] Obviously, Congresswoman did not mean these sentences, not this behaviour, as one that builds the House's authority. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-270	Thank you very much. Congressman Mesterházy, MSZP, two minutes!
u2019-11-20-271	Thank you very much. I could go on, too, because at a budget committee meeting, Mr Happy sent him to his good mother, although he said it worse, but I don't want Szabó Timea. But that's not why I wanted to tell you, but that's why I wanted you to hit me with your whip. Rather, I thought I should tell you because Martha Matrai spoke and said that we did not understand Bible quotations. I now understand the Bible quotes of the Prime Minister, and I also understand the essence of Christian freedom, Congresswoman. These are the three. I don't say one k, and the other two I say the way it is: drugs, corruption and prostitutes. This is Zsolt Borkai's recipe. I believe that the dignity of the House, the dignity of Hungarian public life, is certainly violated by the orgy party with prostitutes on a yacht in a drug rage. So I think there's something to sweep around their own house when they're talking about Christian freedom, Biblical quotes, and the opposition being accused of violating different moral standards. I think this definition of Christian freedom needs to be worked out a little bit. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-272	Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik!
u2019-11-20-273	Mr President, Dear House, In this debate, it has not yet been said by the government that you should not engage in an interesting way of communicating, you!. [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] I believe that the material that has been put before us has also been prepared in this style, in this approach. You can see that the Government of Hungary has built a communist-style lie factory, and is proud of it, which in itself is a shame and a disgrace. The same style when the Prime Minister is silent about how many tens, how many hundreds of billion forints Hungarian taxpayers should be able to meet this team's economic error, the crimes they have committed in drawing development resources. But I would also like to say to you that I do not know how well the wild drivings of the net lie factory that are produced here in this Chamber fit into your package; the Fidesz Secretary of State and Minister who, for example, calls Jobbik a pro-immigration force, without his votes, you would never have been able to assign the military to the physical border lock in your stinking life. It doesn't matter who's right in this debate, but you lie, you lie in the morning, you lie at noon, you lie at night. They do this without consequences, hiding behind a house rule that will be rewritten in the near future, if all this continues. I'd like to tell you that we're not the ones who have to explain. It is the Jobbik faction that has never accepted a stinking forint from anyone, has not built corruption channels like you, nor has it taught anyone in the style that you try to do this to us, but the fact is that we would accept the lecture from anyone who is honestly at the head of this country. We're not gonna take it from criminals with ties or mouth locks. The fact is that each dictatorship soared into a stem, that is how each dictatorship tried to silence the voices that it did not like, and that is how each dictatorship began its deep flight and then its collapse. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-20-274	Congressman Csaba Hende, Vice President of Parliament, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-275	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to start by asking András Balczó briefly... [[Intercoms: Zoltán!]] It's late. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] I'm a great admirer of you both. [[Gergely Arató: What a coincidence that this happened so late!]] Mr Zoltán Balczó and Mr András Balczó, the Olympian. He therefore objected to his vote by means of an alternate member who was banned. I would like to inform you that this institution is known in the French Senate, known in the Luxembourg Parliament, and also known in the British House of Commons. The constitutional concern would be precisely that, at any time, the measures taken by any of the senior presidents could change parliamentary power and influence voting rates in this way. That is why it is necessary to ensure that the banned Member can take part in the open ballots by means of a substitute and in person in secret ballots. Márta Demeter said, literally, that they will terminate all the information in the form of a public document. All orientation options remain unchanged, as well as the meeting room behavior rules remain unchanged. One thing changes, Madam honourable Member, and this is the price of breaking the law. We're not talking about the rights of representatives here, we're talking about the right to be violated and the cost of that. No one has the right to break the law, the rules of the house, and no one has the right to rule here. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: A lot of people are going to pay!]] and must comply with mandatory standards of conduct. So far, they have been able to break it relatively cheaply; after the adoption of this law, it will cost more. But the same is forbidden today as in the future, and the same is free today as in the future. The question is, what's not allowed, what's the price, that's the question, that's what we're talking about. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks. Antal Csárdi applauds.]]
u2019-11-20-276	Congresswoman Márta Demeter, LMP, two minutes.
u2019-11-20-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, President Hende, for answering the question and for having had a reaction at all, because it is rare, by the way. But then I would like to ask you how much it will cost, for example, that the director of the Honvéd Hospital refuses to answer questions from his representatives when it comes to human lives. I would like to ask you that in a situation such as the one that is now being developed in connection with the Mátra Power Plant, or in relation to the polluting plants there, we would like, say, to inform the competent public bodies that they are refusing any information, then what should be done. As I was trying to systematically collect these cases in my speech, state leaders refused to provide regular information, statutory information to Members, so that in most cases, I believe that we acted correctly and visited the institution. In fact, for example, I asked myself to be a politician there several times, so be a minister or a competent secretary of state there, because, obviously, a political issue is not put by man to the army, but to the competent minister, secretary of state, professional questions and background information to the authorities there. Then what do you think we should do if they don't do this and violate the law? We're gonna go to trial in these cases, only if you say I don't know what kind of violations of the law have been done here, I don't know about this, by the way, and how much it's gonna cost right now. How much is this gonna cost them, to those heads of state institutions, when they break the law, how much is it gonna cost? Thank you.
u2019-11-20-278	Thank you very much. We are now returning to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced in advance. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of various factions who have applied for a two-minute comment, I will inform you that in the next round, they will be able to speak in circles according to the house rules. Now, Congressman György Szilágyi, notary of Parliament, representative of Jobbik, please.
u2019-11-20-279	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Csaba Hende, You are in the Hungarian Parliament, not in the parliaments of the countries you mentioned. The difference between the two may be that in the countries you mentioned, the governing party is not as arrogantly involved with the opposition and the voters represented by the opposition as it is in Hungary. Then straight from the beginning, let's say, by Wikipedia, what dictatorships exist. I would quote that it should not be that I invent what they say: oppression may be open, i.e. manifesting itself in the administrative restriction of people's will, and it can be seen as hidden as in our case, i.e. they exist from the enforcement of people's will not formally, but they are virtually excluded persons or groups, or views and opinions. [[23.50]] In this case, the group to be excluded is the opposition, the opposition which represents much more voters at the moment in this Parliament than you do, as 120,000 more voters voted for opposition candidates sitting here than for you. And we are here at the National Assembly to practice popular representation as Members of Parliament appointed by the people. So, when you want to exclude us and exclude us from parliamentarianism, legislation, votes, you want to exclude those voters who voted for the opposition. And you say you don't want to take the vote. Well, Congressman Hende, it is also possible that because the opposition, let's say, is not in a position to stand in this Chamber, you can rule out all opposition representatives without saying a word. Well, I'm telling you, I'm not giving you my voting rights, because then, for example, who's gonna vote and exercise the voting rights you're saying? They claim that the opposition violates the dignity of this House. Then allow me to list a few things that, in my opinion, violate the dignity of this House. For example, it violates the dignity of this House that, over nine years, you have ignored those opposition voters and have passed four, or four, laws that opposition representatives have filed, while you have made over a thousand laws in this House, created a Fundamental Law, and have been willing to accept four opposition bill from the majority of society, because that is how you are concerned with these things. Then it violates the dignity of this House that you and all of you threw away yesterday those people who have a serious illness and have a serious illness, because you voted against that opposition proposal yesterday, and you also voted against it, which would have helped SMA patients and everyone else who suffers from serious diseases to receive any financial support for their treatment. You voted against this without saying a word. And then you know what else might violate the dignity of this House? Let's just say yesterday, they voted off the disclosure of the agents' files for the 20th time. And you know why this violates, not just because you don't want the Lustration Act, but the reason you're being voted off is because of the fact that most of the people you work with are former Communists. [[Intercoms from the opposition: That's right!]] This also violates the dignity of this House. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Then we'll get a list. You know what else violates the dignity of this House? That Flórian Farkas is a congressman. [[Intercoms from the opposition: That's right!]] It also violates the dignity of this House, because we are talking about a man with a criminal record with a vague past in his studies. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Gábor Bányai: That Gyurcsány!]] who was once prevented from going to another prison with Presidential grace, and who, the last time, vanished 1600 million forints without being harmed, and who continues to be a Member of Parliament. In vain, Congressman Hende, you have established this, since your ministry has determined that the 1600 million forints have disappeared, and that is why you tried to wash Florian Farkas afterwards. But he's still sitting here in the House as a congressman, smiling. This violates the dignity of this House. And then you know what else violates the dignity of this House? György Simonka and Roland Mengyi, Lord Voldemort, that you may have been a Member of Parliament; who have used their position to embezzle public funds and have been protected by Fidesz-KDNP representatives for as long as they could. Now, that violates the dignity of this House, I think. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] It also violates the dignity of the House that János Kerényi, who was practically Simonka's boss as regional director of the South Great Plain, and one of the relatives of Simonka's fourth-rate defendants, is difficult to believe that he didn't know anything, but he can still sit among you to this day. So is Gábor Varga, who is sitting right next to Simonka in the House, and whose relatives are also accused of the case. Now, that violates the dignity of this House. It violates the dignity of this House by the arrogance, the pompousness, the condescending style that you allow yourself, both in committees and in plenary, against opposition representatives. I'm just gonna have a merry Christmas! I call it style. You do remember that when the Prime Minister gave a very serious professional answer to a very important opposition question, he said that Merry Christmas. Now, that's arrogant. You can do anything in this House, you can yell, you can lie, you can label, you can, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you But if the opposition speaker calls someone a comrade, he will be dismissed, as was the case with Peter James. Or, let's say, when I tell Viktor Orbán that he has some sickly attraction to luxury machines, the President sitting upstairs wants to take the floor from me. Well, what's offensive is that someone's ill-attractively attracted... [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] Not the President currently sitting up, but if you wish, Mr Böröcz, I will name who it was, János Latorcai. Look, you can see it on video. What was so offensive about that? You are constantly applying double standards, applying double standards in this Parliament. Again, in order to give my example, I offered a neck soup verbally to a secretary of state, incorrect, I add, completely wrong. I have accepted the punishment, although, I add, there has been no consequence of a government secretary who, before that sentence, made offensive protests against an opposition representative. But it was wrong, so I didn't go to an international court and accept the punishment; but once again, I say it orally. What about those Fidesz MEPs who physically attacked an opposition representative? He was physically attacked. They received a penalty of 50,000 forints. In fact, Gyula Budai, who punched Agnes Kunhalmi in the chest physically, received nothing. He didn't get anything! He went there, and a lady here at the National Assembly suffered physical atrocities from Gyula Budai. He didn't get any punishment! These are the double standards. And if they've worked on such a double standard, the question arises, what happens next if they want to tighten up? I can already hear and see these dialogues, say on behalf of the President: Mr Szilágyi, you are a notary of the Parliament, do not look so badly at Minister Rogán. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] It's gonna be a while, he's looking bad again, I'm banning him from the house for three months. And there's no legal remedy. Or, let's say, once again, the president says that Congresswoman Kunhalmi, the red blazer, is a violation of the House's authority, take it off. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Agnes Kunhalmi removes his blazer.]] Don't you get it? I'll ban him from the house for a month if he doesn't take it off. That's about what they're gonna be like. And there will be no appeal against this, only in the international court, where the infringement will be established in four, five or six years' time, as has recently been established in connection with the 2013 cases. This dictatorship you are using is an attempt to silence the opposition, one of the main democratic values, an attempt to destroy popular representation. That's what you're doing right now. We represent the people, they're excluded from the legislation, they're taking away the right to vote, dear Csaba Hende. I think that you should first consider how you behave, how you are involved with opposition voters, because you are doing what you are doing to us with opposition voters. Once again, we represent the opposition voters. Then opposition voters, not only opposition voters, voters in every election, will decide who violates the dignity of this House, you violate the dignity of this House, or the opposition violates it. They can always decide that in elections. [[0.00]] The electoral system that you have transformed, the electoral system that I believe is based on a fraud, thanks to which you are here now with two thirds, and thanks to it you are humiliated, constantly trying to humiliate the opposition and continue to humiliate opposition voters. In my opinion, you are violating the authority of this House. Look inside you and be ashamed of yourself, I think when you put a bunch of skunks like this on the table. You're trying to shut everyone up, you're trying to crush everyone. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's what you're going to fail at.]] They want to crush everyone. [[László Böröcz: This is what you want.]] But you're not gonna make it. Neither do you, Congressman Böröcz, nor do you. Neither do you, believe me, but feel free to press a button, I'm curious about the speech. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Be Brave in a Microphone]] I will be curious to hear your speech, my esteemed young friend, because we have about 30 years, and that is about what it gives us. That's the difference between you and us. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: You are airs and pompous.]] That's all you're gonna give me. I would never think of giving older people opinions like you allow yourself. This arrogance, this pompousness, that's what characterizes you. That's what I've been talking about, but unfortunately, there are problems with understanding the text. Of course, I know you think you'll be in power in your world and you can do anything you want. One day everything will change. I wish for this country to truly change, indeed, to have a democratic rule of law that we can work normally with each other in a democratic rule of law, and not in a style such as that which you represent. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-11-20-280	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, LMP, please.
u2019-11-20-281	Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the landlady for being here and listening to our opinion. This is also important because, unfortunately, I don't see a Secretary of State or a member of the government. [[Csaba Hende: It's none of your business.]] I think that we can only talk about meaningful dialogue if the other party is represented. Yes, some of my pro-government fellow Members are here, which is rather strange, because when we have various legislative proposals that we would like to bring before the House and at least debate about, at least debate about it, then one of my fellow Members, who is one of the presenters of this bill, told me that he does not understand why we are presenting it, because it has already been swept off by the committee. I explained to him then that we would do this because we were sent here. I know that we are disturbing here in the eyes of the pro-government representatives, because we are disturbing the stupid questions, our stupid speeches, we can laugh good things at us in many cases; I think that also undermines the authority of the House. I think that this legislation or draft law is absolutely not accurate. It would be precisely that there would be a code of ethics attached to it, which would describe exactly what words could not be said here in the future. I hope that the word "dummy" is among them, and it will also include the sentence that my fellow Member should take a sedative, and you will not be able to say that to anyone, will you? ! 'Cause I don't agree with that, and I'm gonna emphasize that I'm not gonna say what kind of sign, and I'm not gonna say that word, and I don't like it either. But neither is the fact that in response to that, a person can be called a dork, by my power, and by using my power, I will say something like this down. I think that violates the dignity of this House. But it's not the only thing to talk about. By the way, I remembered some proverbs. One of them, for example, is that someone else has the splinters, and you don't have the beam, and whoever doesn't have the shirt doesn't take it personally. I'm sorry, but it's just amazing that we're gonna have to sit here slowly with our hands behind our backs, be quiet and not talk, just so we don't walk like in the poem, so no one went there, and the school stopped. You don't want that either, because we should at least maintain the appearance of democracy, I think, on behalf of all of us. Sometimes I feel that there is only a pretend democracy, because I have not even been heard swearing or scolding the government here, because as mayor, I thought that communication might be effective if we spoke in a human language, culturally. But that's not always true, because I've been told that I'm lying and all sorts of other adjectives. I just don't understand why. You could at least appreciate it if I didn't use political phrases here in Parliament, but brought here a political or social problem. But you are rejecting all initiatives made up by the opposition, except those four by my fellow Member Szilágyi, and I apologize for the mistake. But in general, you don't really care what we're talking about here, because you often don't come here, showing us how much we're worth in your eyes. I can understand that. Two-thirds is two-thirds. But remember that two thirds are not full power, not authoritarian, not dictatorship, not kingdom. We came here, or at least I did, because I was sent here. The other day, I got one of my fellow Members to say, "Yeah, from a list?" Yeah, just like there are people here on the list. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I'm guilty of coming from a list, that's a fact. But that doesn't mean I have the same rights as someone who's not from the list, I think. The other thing is, I don't feel like I'm gonna be disqualified for swearing because I don't swear. But the reason why we're going to talk about what's a swearing is because I'm afraid that strangely interpreted as a rubber rule, people here will indeed be banned many times for something that may not necessarily be obscene. So let's lay down the rules, write down the words, phrases, sentences that you can't say here, and we'll stick to that. And the other thing is, I wasn't trying to make fun of you right now, you know, hand out nails. I'm bad, I'm going out, bang, ten nails, congresswoman, shame on you, you'll get nailed like you used to at school. I'll never forget it because I didn't do my homework with a pen. I think we should try this here too. I'm sorry, I understand that December 12th was a day that was an upsetting experience for me, too, so to speak. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács:]] Hell, that's right, I've been disturbed by this day, but you have left me no choice, because we say ours here in vain; I've been told by many voters why the hell I'm actually preparing for any law, so no one cares what we say. Although I think they spend their time at night watching what we have said, they read the minutes and study what this unfortunate opposition says once it is sitting here in Parliament. I think that everyone should be examined; this does not apply to the large woman, because I have never seen her in such a situation as to violate the rules of the house. But speaking of ethics and protocol, I'm sorry, don't you have to thank that unfortunate opposition representative? I'm gonna go into the hall, say hello out loud, and let alone say hello because I'm a woman, who cares? But they don't accept greetings in many cases. I'm sorry, why not? Isn't that part of the House's dignity to say hello? At least say hi back. Yeah, because I'm not fidesz, I'm sorry, I have these weird thoughts that I'm not fidesz, that's a fact. I would also like to say that the opposition may be small and we are few, but the pepper is small, but it is strong, they say, it is also a proverb. There are a lot of proverbs that could be said here, and I could use my time to list all the Hungarian proverbs, but I'm not going to do that right now. But once again, I strongly ask that there be a code that I really mean, that it be laid down which words cannot be said in this House, but then it should apply to everyone, because there is just one of the distributors who yells at me a lot and yells at me a lot. I read that you're not gonna be able to yell. It's okay. But then, not just for us, because interestingly, in many cases, I apologize, Mr. President, sometimes it's just us being warned, while the other side of the room is being yelled at the same way. It's the same. Momentary emotional effects. ; I'm ashamed, but sometimes I yell, that's a fact. I yell at you because I don't see any other way, and I'm outraged that I don't know, I've been a Soros agent and I don't know what it is. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] A hundred times, then. But I'd like to meet this Soros once in a while so I can at least get to know him, since I'm accusing him of that. I think that these general panels that you use here regularly against us are more than outrageous. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] This may be funny, I don't know how funny it is, but I'm serious. Because once in a while, you've had enough, and you're forced to give your opinion sometimes to listen and get to you. [[0.10]] Believe me, it's not just my opinion, it's what many of the people in this room think, and also those who are probably still looking at the screen at this late hour trying to peel out what I'm talking about. It's about visiting institutions and all that. I salute M1. I've never gone into a public institution uninvited. I've gone to public institutions, doctors or hospitals if I was sick, but I'm not. But I've been thinking about how I'd like to. I don't want to go there and fight or slap you, but I have to find some way to get information. Sadly, sometimes I find that here they push everything down our throats with force. There is only one amendment that has not yet been adopted, such as that which may be linked to my name or my name. Because they're both bad and unprofessional, because we're completely under-educated and completely uninformed, right? 'Cause that's what it looks like. It's gonna be like this law, and we know it's gonna be down our throats, because we have two thirds, who cares what we say. I'd love to see that if I wasn't here, even if you'd have to sit down and coordinate. Sometimes it happens, I admit it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: They will be pitiful!]] No, just to have to, I hope that the Hungarian voters will hear this, only so much that we do have to sit down and compromise sometimes. Because we say, let's say, what a professional organization suggests, so it wasn't the Hohn Kriszta who came up with the right to amend the law in a given law, but the representatives of the profession, who dare come to me, because I don't hurt them, with words. They tell me what to give or what the problem is. I'm gonna bring this here, and you guys are gonna, like, wipe it out on committee level. [[Defiance. Agnes Kunhalmi: Sutty?]] Sutty! Because there's just nothing else to say. [[Intercom from the LMP benches.]] Yeah, sloppy's ugly, too. Good. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's better than the French!]] Now, let's talk about this, because it's also important that there are Members of Parliament... But it wasn't Peter Hoppal, I'm telling you this in advance, because he was offended the other day, and he wasn't like that. I have to tell you, he's never been like this in his life, and he hasn't hurt me as mayor, and he hasn't done anything wrong to me, so I'm telling him because he's not here. But I do know people who, as obscenely speaking to mayors, say things that make me faint, really. How dare you and this is where an individual Member of Parliament comes in connection with the visit to the institution, threatening the mayor, putting him on the edge of a rug and saying that we're not gonna get along? [[Demercation from the benches of opposition representatives.]] Don't tell me... Don't laugh, because it's true. And he says I'm not saying it, but if you're trying to do something good for yourself, don't do that. What? ! Well, where does it say that the congressman is the mayor's boss, and I'm sorry? Isn't that a violation of the House's authority? I suppose the Prime Minister doesn't even know what's going on in the field, in some cases in the countryside. Not everyone's doing this, it's lucky, but I know at least five or six Members of Parliament who regularly press the mayor. Is that okay? Is it normal for me to come and threaten you? It's a good thing I didn't have a congressman like that, or else I wouldn't know what I was gonna do. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea to the president.]] No, that's enough! Sometimes the poor mayor tries to court that congressman, because there are districts like this, and the congressman in front of the other mayors tells him not to lick my stuff, because I hate it when you do that. Excuse me. So you don't just have to look at us. Yeah, they're right, we're not gonna hold up these signs. I totally, totally agree. We're not being nasty, we're not talking dirty, we're not being sent here for that. But I would urge the code of ethics to know who to say "thank you" to. Here, teach me. Who should be thanked, who should be thanked, to what extent, how to thank, what should be answered, and how to behave. Well, let's write that down, too, 'cause I don't think everyone knows that either. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Don't stop. A big round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-11-20-282	Thank you very much for your speech to the European Economic and Social Committee. In the 20th century, he showed Erasmus in Rotterdam, with problems of this kind, only 500 years have passed since then. Congresswoman Anett, independent, please.
u2019-11-20-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After my fellow Member, Mr Hohn Krisztina, it is difficult to speak, but I am trying. I watched Máté Kocsis this morning, when he made this presentation with his fellow authors, his honourable fellow authors. The thing is, when you see a fellow Member embarrassing even his own presentation, and therefore unable to perform his own message here in Parliament without stumbling, it is amazing. Matthew the Carman made us get used to the thickness of that skin. The fact is that Máté Kocsis started this debate with a completely ill-built argument system and a completely ill-built voice. It's been 12 hours since that day, but no problem, we're willing to be here all night and argue with you because a very strange situation is developing in Parliament. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Máté Kocsis and his fellow Members argued this morning that in many democracies, the legislation on the status, rights and duties of Members is much stricter than that of Hungarian. I would like to say that they are functioning democracies. I would not like to compare those democratic institutions, those states of law, my fellow Members, to an authoritarian system in progress, to the current situation in Hungary, in which you are preparing with this law to give the majority of governments some kind of rubber regime that will simply allow them to conduct a vendetta campaign against the opposition. Not just here, in plenary, but in committee work. You're accusing us that we don't plan, we don't come to work. I would like to say that, for example, the opposition-led committee meetings, which my fellow Members are trying to convene, are failing to ensure that pro-government colleagues do not wish to give them a quorum. I look at my fellow Members, with whom I am sitting on a committee, where we are always very happy to receive the letters in which we are assured that they are not in their right mind to come into work and to discuss issues that otherwise affect Hungarian society in budgetary and other matters. The situation is that your communication in this legislative proposal, as in many areas, is a liar. They simply claim that we are uncultured, incompetent, bad intentions, which we are not. What I don't understand is why they chose this communication solution after the 13th of October, when opposition mayor candidates and candidates campaigned for local leadership were charged with the same accusations that they were only interested in power, they could only fight, they couldn't lead these settlements, whose mayor seats were in most cases or in many cases won by the opposition. In recent weeks, it has turned out, for example, that former Fidesz leaders have a peaceful attitude to current opposition city leaders. I think it is not by accident, because, as Congresswoman Márta Demeter has already mentioned here, your governance is woven through corruption at both local and central levels. So there's something to be afraid of. So I think there is a reason for this legislative amendment proposal, and they are not trying to change house rules and deprive us, if necessary, of the fact that, fellow Members, we are using tougher words, and we are making a tougher voice in the Parliament. [[To Csaba Hende:]] I can see that you are shaking your head, but we have talked a lot about the rule of law issues in this horseshoe, and I think it is no exaggeration to say that it is not the present society, because the current society has been successfully put to sleep through propaganda, in many cases millions here cannot and do not want to raise their voice against the reproach that is taking place in its two-thirds benches. We, on the other hand, have a historical responsibility here in the opposition benches to shake the alarm bell, and we can tell you that this government and the last nine years will land on the darkest side of the history books, on the pages where it is described that using democratic means, Hungarian society witnessed the construction of an authoritarian system. [[0.20]] This is not even embarrassing for the European Union or not for the opposition or opposition voters, but will be awkward for future generations when it can be said how many decades you have rejected the development of this country either at economic or social level. [[Defiance on the pro-government side. László Böröcz: Do you believe that?]] My fellow government members say I don't believe this either; well, look at the analysis centres that are independent, not like the Századvég, or those that are drawn out of their own pockets, but those that publish international comparisons of our country. These clearly show that what is happening in our country is embarrassing in regional comparison. The destruction of the democratic institutional system, the destruction of the system of brakes and counterweights, the arrogance by which a wide range of social groups have been deprived of the principles of equal dignity and equal treatment, is not only unacceptable, but I think that it empowers and explicitly obliges opposition representatives to take all legal means against what you have used two thirds to do and to use their governance at the moment. It is quite simply impertinent to measure the current legislative amendment to centuries of democracy, and to compare our current house rules to countries where there is indeed a democratic culture where there is a debate culture. Because we cannot say enough in this Chamber and in many other forums that the advantage of democracy over dictatorship is that the common good is also decided in debates. That is what you in this House are trying to eliminate. I understand very well the primary intention of this legislative amendment proposal, and that is to say, woe, but it would be good not to be asked awkward questions. Oh, it would be nice if the Parliament's audit role were to cease. Oh, but it would be nice if the opposition were not in a position to appear in public institutions and to exercise the right to control these institutions either individually or in groups. In many areas, we ourselves have demonstrated the need under your governance for the activity that we are carrying on, because at the moment, investigative journalism in this country lies primarily with the parliamentary opposition. We were the ones who were able to solve cases that were embarrassing to you, either on a local or a central level. These, ladies and gentlemen, have led us to believe that local leaders with huge breasts, who imagined that without them the whole city or the whole settlement would collapse the next day, if there was a change from the Democratic side on the 13th, they would also be redeemed. I understand that after this October 13th, you would like to use new means to prevent the opposition from accidentally exercising its rights, so that the opposition might not accidentally show that it would do better in a number of areas what you are doing. But I don't think we're gonna make it. However, during the municipal elections and during the campaign, we learned that the more outnumbered, the more abused the institutions, see Annex VIII. Police raid at the headquarters of the district campaign team, strikes back, my fellow Members. So what you can do for a while is strike with power arrogance and gigantic force and show you that you can do anything, but I think that on the 13th at the latest around 10:00 p.m. you have to learn that after a while, if only a small social group now, it will show you that this is enough. I think that we can mutually strengthen each other, this House and the street, this House and the polling stations, and that the next period will bring us to the point of replacing the system of national cooperation. You do not mind that there was a parliamentary demonstration here, because if that had bothered you, you would have tabled this amendment already in January this year. What bothers you is that the events of 12 December last year led us to October 13. They got us to the point of watching what we could do for what this society has long been waiting for, so that it can finally rise, finally get rid of the Fidesz leadership at least on a local level. Of course, there are many settlements where this has failed. But the fact is that the next period will be enough for the opposition to replace the government. And whatever decision you're making at this moment, whatever you're doing in this debate, either during tonight or in the next few weeks here in Parliament, this opposition will no longer be able to stop you from replacing this government. I believe that this will not only benefit Hungarian society, but probably also the European Union. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-20-284	Thank you very much. There will be a series of two-minute speakers. Congressman László Varju, DK.
u2019-11-20-285	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I think that, at times in this debate, we must return to the conclusion on what is really the end of this law that you have put before us. It is clear and clear that this is the law of Fidesz's terror, which seeks to impose restrictions in their fear of the opposition. Of course, the Members are not the real target here, but the voters they want to scare by your arrogant attempt to respond to their election defeat. I think that when you put 37 laws around everyone's neck when you said you didn't want to run a law factory, you're suddenly taking out important things for you, and you're trying to do that, and you're trying to solve everything you think is important. On this day, Mr Fisherman mentioned two things that I would like to go back to, but certainly, at least in this comment. I quote him: anyone who doesn't play anarchist doesn't interfere with work, he doesn't get punished. Well, honourable Members, you, who have tabled this law here to shut up the opposition and to threaten it openly, and as you stand up and stand now, I respectfully say that no one will be alarmed by you. The cost of breaking the law you're about to make here, and you just said it would be expensive for us, so I respectfully say it's not about that. You have no right to do this, and you should not be, because instead of the Fundamental Law, there will be a constitution, and then there will be a republic in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-286	Thank you very much. Vice President Csaba Hende, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2019-11-20-287	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Very quickly: Congresswoman Márta Demeter asked what should be done if public bodies refuse to provide information. I can tell you that the law will continue, as it has always been, that public bodies are obliged to help Members in their work, to provide the necessary information, and that access to public institutions will be possible. This is where I'd respond to the words of Avenger Anett. He was talking about making the on-the-spot check impossible. The on-site inspection isn't impossible at all. Of course, not in the night, not lying on the ground, not in a public institution with that illegal goal of breaking in at the head of a heated crowd [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There was no break-in, they let us in!]] To have demands read on television. This is all lawlessness, honourable Member, and it is ridiculous. Krisztina Hohn objected that the government was not represented in the debate. I respectfully inform you that the government will never be represented in the debate between the Parliamentary Act and the House Rules to look back on the past period, given that it considers this to be the internal affairs of the Parliament. György Szilágyi highlighted the issue of SMA patients. I would like to inform the House that the state provides all patients with SMA under the age of 18 with an acceptable treatment facility across Europe. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] This year we will provide 1.6 billion forints in addition to this next year. There are medicines that are not yet available as medicines in Europe, which are otherwise expensive, and the medical profession is still examining how to include them in the treatment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[0.30]]
u2019-11-20-288	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP!
u2019-11-20-289	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The only thing about visiting the institution is that, in the first instance, the court gave us the truth, we were right to be there, so you might want to find a judge who will decide on their own terms. The other: Máté Kocsis said that the hairdresser must also be registered. Please, the NAV inspector doesn't usually check in with the hairdresser, either, when he wants to see if he's doing the regular thing, like giving me a receipt. The other, Mrs Mátrai Márta, I'd like to ask you what you think. Tasó: What are you talking about, girl? Take off, Agi, the babydoll! László Kövér: The Church of the Insane! Get her some medicine. I'd like to hear your opinion. Mr Hende, international examples. He mentions British, German, French sanctions, but the sanctions applied there exist in addition to the full and 100% guarantee of the rights of opposition representatives working there, unlike here in Hungary, where opposition representatives have little right left, and so, in essence, we are being sanctioned even further. Please, Parliamentary Members have always acted this way in Hungarian history if they wanted to limit their rights. This was the case in dualism, and so was the case between the two world wars. In 1904, 1912, and 24, that's what it's all about in 19 now. Think of the slave law, they closed the debate out of the house, swept down thousands of our amendments, took the floor arbitraryly from Members of Parliament in the debate while they had the right to speak. We are not allowed into public media, and here the MEPs have listed what they have done to degrade the opposition because they do not regard the Hungarian opposition as a political partner. Orbán does not normally answer any of the questions addressed to him, which is because, dear fellow Members, I say it to us, because he would simply recognise the representatives of his opposition partner, but he cannot do so in this system. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-290	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anett, independent.
u2019-11-20-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to add quite briefly to the international examples that, if we have already talked about this, that you have referred to Britain, I would like to say that the Speaker is strictly withdrawing himself from any political expression there. I would like to see the Speaker abstain from any political expression in this House. On the other hand, what do we see? That László Kövér, by order, appears in propaganda media, dishonors the opposition, dishonors refugees, certain social groups, and this is unacceptable. So I don't know why we have to have conceptual debates here in the middle of the night, what is permissible and what is not permissible. I would be very happy if they didn't gather such a very special set of different legal systems, which would bring the worst possible results, and then you would be free to carry on any madness here in this House or even in public institutions or psychics. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-292	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik!
u2019-11-20-293	Mr President, Dear House, If we are to think about what violates the authority of this House, it is clear in my view that the package has voted off the more than five hundred right-wing, thousands of opposition amendments that we have tabled for the budgetary proposals. What did you vote for in a package, and you, sitting here one by one? They said no to the flask baby program, they said no to the full support of people with rare diseases, they said no to the restoration of state support for housing systems, they said no to the rental program, they said no to the total cessation of evictions. Meanwhile, they are blackmailing not only the voters, but the citizens of the entire cities through mayors, trying to blackmail them by saying that they will not have a source of development if they do not speak to you in the way they wish, and they will not elect your people, their delegates. The result is known on October 13. That's how much Hungarian people love being blackmailed. And I would also like to tell you that, by forcing house rules, you are now trying to introduce new rules: do you not think, ladies and gentlemen, that a few years, you will be in opposition? Why are they acting as if their present power could last forever? In two and a half years' time, you may be in opposition, maybe six years from now, neither of us is psychic, but don't act like this fabulous thing you have in your hands is going to last forever. It's not gonna last forever, and they're gonna be acting the way they're behaving to other people right now. There are very fair, honest people among you, even in this room, who are acting as the dignity of this House demands. I would like to refer to Mrs Bányai, Vice-President; I would not mention the names of the others because I do not want to get them into trouble, but the thing is that there would be an example, even in their own ranks. I must say, a power and the real face of a man will be revealed when he is given power. Well, you've shown this face perfectly in the last few days.
u2019-11-20-294	Dear Parliament, We are now returning to the hearing of the views of the Members who have been notified. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, Jobbik, please.
u2019-11-20-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present these two proposals and their reasons from a different approach. I don't know how many people watched the video that was recorded on October 21st during the Prime Minister's speech before the agenda. I checked. To me, this video and its presence have shown most of all that, although it is likely that 13 October has something to do with these two proposals, I think it has more to do with what happened there, that day. The Prime Minister spoke eight minutes ago when Ákos Hadházy took out the sign. When Speaker László Kövér noticed this, he stopped the Prime Minister and warned Ákos Hadházy that he was acting illegally and that this would have consequences. After that, Mr. Speaker leaned back, and he didn't actually do one thing, he didn't whistle, but he didn't care at all about what was going on here. Why didn't you care? He didn't care because before that, there was an election, before which Zsolt Borkai's scandal appears to fall on Fidesz. István Tarlós, László Kövér sensed that it might not fall on Fidesz in Győr, but it could fall on many places in the country, where there are moral and responsible citizens who say that if it is accepted in Fidesz and this system, then we do not ask for it. István Tarlós also said that Zsolt Borkai should withdraw. Then he announces Zsolt Borkai for a Friday that he will hold a press conference. Everyone who could think that he would announce his withdrawal and resignation. Today we know that László Fat asked for it. What's gonna happen? They cancel the press conference, and this process goes through. Fidesz and the Prime Minister humiliated István Tarlós and humiliated László Kövér, the owner of the membership book number 1. I think that this was the only proper reaction on the part of László Fatvér, that if you humiliated my party, humiliated the authority of that community, you should now handle this question as well as you can. László Fatvér had access to the current parliamentary law 49. § 4 which states that if the Member shows a serious violation of the authority and order of the Parliament, or if, by his conduct, he violates the rules on voting or illustration of the rules of the rules of the rules of the house, the order of deliberations, the chairman of the sitting may propose the exclusion of the representative from the remainder of the sitting without order or warning, and then the due reduction of the fee. So Speaker László Fat could have ruled out Ákos Hadházy. But he didn't rule it out. He warned her, and that was it. Anyone who watches the video can see the face of the Fidesz notary throughout the process, who voices his incomprehension with his face as to why nothing else is happening here. Well, nothing more has happened, please, because you don't have the harmony that created this monolith system anymore. Harmony's broken. Harmony's broken. [[0.40]] The device was available and the device was not used. Then the Prime Minister spoke, spoke, spoke, spoke, the Prime Minister spoke for a long time, when the Kubatov commando, the seven devils from the last row, arrived and eliminated this situation. I have looked at the faces of the Fidesz and KDNP MEPs, as I am constantly trying to see what their gestures and body language reveal: well, you have all looked at László Kövér in a rather incomprehensible way as to why the action would not continue; I would not have taken any further action for you. That is why, please, in this new proposal, A new institutional system will be set up in paragraph 1 where it says that any notary in the Chamber who is involved in the management of the meeting and who has asked it to maintain the negotiating order may also help. Do you know what word it doesn't say? There's no word for "invitation." So the president doesn't have to ask the notary to take action, he can take action, he can take action on his own. You can act on your own because on that day, the Fidesz notary, who was sitting next to László Kövér, was so confused about the situation that no action would continue, that now he was given this opportunity as a gift and should not be asked. In other words, it is not intended for Mr László Lukács to do so in the future, if the President does not take effective steps to get him out, to punish, confiscate and quarter the Member, but the notary, in particular the Fidesz notary, can do so. What I would like to say to you is that you have made a big mistake in this proposal, and that is that you have forgotten to rewrite the preamble to the parliamentary law, because the preamble to the OGY law defines the principle and spirit that must be served by each of the places under it. This is the following:, confirming that it is an essential condition for democratic state operation that Parliament's control tasks over legislative and executive power can be exercised effectively and transparently; this is one of the points. The second is:, emphasizing the joint responsibility of all parliamentary representatives for the service of Hungary, the Hungarian nation and the public good, ensuring the integrity of the proper exercise of the rights of its Members and the proper functioning of the Parliament. The problem is that effective monitoring can only be possible if you do not have to write to the heads of institutions for weeks before it is possible to enter an institution to inquire. By the way, I would like to say that neither in the NAV audit nor in the SAO audit nor in the police investigation, it is not in the person examined who decides what data he provides, but in the institution, the audit institution, which determines what I want to see. It would be very interesting, then, if, according to this draft, you could only provide information in an agreed manner. It is not even in this legislation that we can enter the institution. Don't forget, fellow Members, the possibility of entry has been completely cancelled, but it says that you can be informed. Then the heads of the institutions will answer any question in writing, or at a pre-arranged time, such as on television, where I wrote for weeks to consult and reached the cafeteria, which is four metres from the entrance. So the CEO at the cafeteria answered my 20 pre-written questions; otherwise he didn't answer, he only did it as if he had answered. I know exactly what I'm talking about and how we can't exercise control. The point is, therefore, that the preamble and this new rule on how restrictive our control option will be are completely opposite each other. I really hope that if you push this through, the Constitutional Court will throw that back. There are a number of completely unnecessary rules in this proposal. By the way, it seems that October 21st has shocked you, and they don't trust László Kövér either, so this has been submitted, but in order to make it seem that this amendment didn't work otherwise, all kinds of unnecessary new rules are being introduced, I simply don't understand why. For example, the picture of the Parliament and its silhouette, they don't believe the 27/A-I. It must be regulated in its sections, as if there had ever been a problem that the image and silhouette of the Parliament had not been used in a business-like manner. I've never heard of anything like this, but I hope it's not my indiscretion. Now all of a sudden, it had to be so regulated that it was amazing, and it also proves that these are filling rules. Then it says here that the 11th. A new paragraph 2a is added: when a representative stays away, he must be notified in advance. I am sure you know that at least four fifths of Members go from country to parliament. Now, a mass of car accidents may arise on a regular basis, possibly either from the representative, his family or his child, or from any other accident that prevents him from arriving here, to the Chamber and to the vote. How can you predict what will happen at the moment when the congressman is coming, or before he leaves? It is simply funny that there is no rule on this, there is no right to a later certificate, there is no way in which all these problems can be justified, and there would be no consequences for a failure. In particular, because you, my fellow Members, are voting for at least 30 votes a day, but there have been 55 votes. And after the number of votes determines the extent and permission of absence, the quarter, this means that if someone is missing from one day, they may be absent from three-quarters or four-fifths of the vote in that period. So, for example, this is also badly regulated by the fact that it is not defined in the day, but in the number of votes. Well, then this oath is huge, 28th. Paragraph 6 and 7 of this article, which I have never heard. Indeed, the Chairman of the Legislative Committee, Vice-President Hende, if anyone, you know, has to be dispositive, so we control what to do, or if someone has done something, what the consequences are, but I've never read anything like "no regulation." Did anyone in this House think that before someone takes the oath, they could go on a committee and speak, or they could exercise any right of representation before the oath takes place? Well, it's a line. I have not heard in this House in the last thirty years that a Member would have wanted to do something before the oath that would fit in with his representative's position. And then there's a no-no rule that he can't do that, and he can't do that, and he can't do that. This also shows that it was simply necessary to include fillings in this draft legislation. But let me tell you one more thing. There are actions, actions that make it possible for an opposition representative to start resisting, not just talking to you in very kind, very warm words, or about your behavior. I have written a few things here that are your actions, and with which you have given us the basis for the possibility that opposition representatives might behave differently from the general ones. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said the word "csicska" in this House for the first time, and I would like to say that he said that word first, which is a serious thing, because if the Prime Minister speaks such words, then he will determine the acceptable negotiating quality that will become natural in this House from that moment on. They've removed the continuous televised television from Parliament, it was Parliament's TV, please. Before that, under each government, if not called Parliament TV, then the period of parliament on the M1 was broadcast from the first minute to the last. I am convinced that if Parliament's TV had been continuously operating over the past four years and it could have been watched, there are certainly no two thirds of Fidesz, but it may not have won the election yet, because citizens would have seen the real situation in this House, and not the propaganda that comes to them through government propaganda prices. [[0.50]] And this lying propaganda: that they are able to present the simplest things in the opposite way, that they are so unscrupulously alerting people through the media portfolio, that they are afraid of people with all kinds of idiotic serialisation and agenting, and that the European Union wants to regulate us and they have tried to divert their own responsibilities, their own responsibilities from citizens, who, unfortunately, because there is no other news channel, couldn't do anything else. I will finish now, but I would like to continue with my next speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-20-296	Thank you, and we'll be waiting. Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP, please.
u2019-11-20-297	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, You didn't get any cards, did you? I'm sorry, István Varga said that in 2012. You motherfucker! This isn't a communist party! Mária Wittner said in the same House. [[Depreciation and intervention in opposition benches, including: The one with a flat tire.]] What are you talking about, girl? ! It has already been said by László Tasó. Don't bark, bitch! Erik Bánki, our fellow Member, said that. And that is only what, in an insufferable way within this House, has, in an unacceptable way, violated the dignity of this House. But we're no better off outside the House. In itself, it is unworthy that ladies and gentlemen sitting on my left side are sitting here in Parliament at all. László Fat said that. This is nothing more than the desperate attempt of a hopeless party. In response, several of us received [[Turning to Jobbik:]] You're also writing questions. And I just want to tell you that both of you have Merry Christmas! All the answers quoted above violate the dignity of this House. [[Csaba Hende is leaving the room.]] Congressman Hende, please don't leave. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] It's very important. [[Csaba Hende from behind the curtain: I'll be right back!]] No wonder he's gone, because I think outside the House it's a violation of the House's dignity... [[Gergely Harvesto: Even if you shout, he can't hear you. Deterioration in opposition benches.]] I'm not sure about that. It also violates the dignity of the House when Csaba Hende is chanting the crowd that they are traitors. [[Interventions from the opposition benches: Shame!]] Doesn't that violate the dignity of this House? Of course, the house rules don't apply to that. Actually, I do. Because I think it's not just between these four walls that we need to be worthy of the office of representation. And I think we do need to talk about the case of October 21st, named Ákos Hadházy. Because I believe that one thing has not happened in this House since the change of regime until October 21st; there has not been any violence. And now it's happened. And yes, my fellow Members, two members of the Fidesz faction did not go as far as assault just to force his will, his opinion, to his fellow Member. And Ákos Hadházy received a fine of 330,000 forints for the otherwise truly vulgar sign and for showing other signs. [[Intervention from the opposition benches: It was free. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That was cheap, by the way, compared to December.]] It may have been cheap, my fellow Member, but what do you say? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That the Fidesz MPs who went to the scene of assault received 50,000 forints? So there we are, and I want the Speaker to explain this: if I don't like the Secretary of State's answer, can I go there in action because it's worth 50 grand? I've got $50,000 in my pocket! [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] But I don't want to make fun of that question. I don't mean to jest this question, but it's a fact and it's true that the assault was recorded on video and it's proven. [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] I will show the video to my fellow Member if he has any doubts. [[Csaba Hende enters the room.]] I will tell my fellow Member Hende once again because I could not say it out loud enough to be heard that I believe that the culling of traitors is as offensive to the dignity of this House as when my fellow Member Hadházy writes inappropriate words on a board. And I think that maybe we shouldn't do this or let it happen. And I think that they should look into themselves first, and after a little self-criticism, I don't expect much self-criticism to think about whether some of you are worthy of their position as representatives. That's the only question. And I think if we were a little tighter, the two-thirds majority of the Fidesz fraction would soon disappear. I think that we should not go too far to see how excessive they have been by submitting this bill. As an individual parliamentary representative of the 1st constituency of Budapest, I went to a public institution and was not informed. It's a violation of the law! Several times, I have dated so many of my fellow opposition Members that we have asked written questions and have not been answered. I would like to point out that, under the parliamentary law that we are now negotiating to amend, this is a violation of the law. And I am very, very interested in the opinion of the landlady, why do they not speak out to their own faction; or may they be broken by law? Or if we allow the House to allow the Fidesz Members, the members of the government, to violate the law, would that not violate the dignity of this House? 'Cause I think you do! And I have to tell you, we don't get answers, we get scams. I was the one who received a reply to a very simple, not even politically motivated request to submit an official request. And I think I'm a Member of Parliament because I don't have to make a formal request and have a 30-day waiting period. If, for example, a government office prepares a static opinion to justify or describe the safety of people, then I don't have to wait 30 days to get a static opinion from the government office, and I'm not going to have to sue them for data requests in the public interest in a year and a half. Because it violates the honour of this House and its fair judgment. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I think this should end once and for all! That's the only thing this bill doesn't fit. This bill, which lies before us, is capable of nothing but building up their own little dictatorship. And in October, I have proven my belief that a significant part of society is not interested in this style, because this style you represent is neither conservative nor right-wing. And because you're watching a Bayer show in your own particular style as a recreation, that doesn't make it work here in this House. The thing is, neither is the splinter in anyone else's eyes, nor the beam in their own eyes. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-11-20-298	Thank you, Congressman Csárdi. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2019-11-20-299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask my fellow Members if I would like to put your good taste, not the dignity of this House, but your good taste, in a quotation mark, when Ákos Hadházy put out the words that he must lie because he steals too much. The Hungarian flag, which is the official symbol of Hungary, was used by their fellow Members to protect their boss and to cover this board. The Hungarian flag! [[1.00]] And your good taste was not offended by the fact that the concierge, László Fat [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] had the EU flag removed from the plenary session and had the EU flag removed from this room. Your good taste, of course, doesn't hurt. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] To steal money from EU countries every day, but the presence of the EU flag is a violation of your good taste. So we should think, ladies and gentlemen, about how, when we are asked about the dignity of this House, we should look in the mirror and ask how you are acting here in Parliament. Allow me one more thing. How many times did László Fat say that he told us and women's politicians that you were not in a pub? Well, I've been looking at photos the other day, and the Hungarian Prime Minister goes to a pub much more than any of us here from the opposition side. [[Intercoms.]] So if we're talking about who goes to the pub, ask your boss, and he'll have a lot to tell you about it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-20-300	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next two-minute Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, DK.
u2019-11-20-301	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to point out that it's not my words, I'd like to quote two. Thank you very much for calling Gyula Horn the great king of the nation. In case you didn't know, Gyula Horn was an executioner. He was a executioner. And right now, thanks to our prime minister, you, my taxes and everyone's taxes, but as a human being, you've been being treated there for three years, and you're stuck at the Honvéd Hospital because you can't die. The following quote is: - It is that there is a formation in politics called Ferenc Gyurcsány, which is only to be discussed because it is such a scandal to this day that it is here with us. A pus-training wound to the body of democracy is his presence. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Two Fidesz Members spoke of two prime ministers, one in the House, Mária Wittner, and the other outside the House, the President of the Parliament. I would like to ask how this promotes the dignity of this House. But this is not a question of political debate, because, in the political debate, it is clear that there is a possibility and a place for vehemency, but these two speeches had nothing to do with politics. [[Intercoms.]] [[Intercoms.]] This was disrespectful, impertinent, and outrageous to two left-wing prime ministers (interjections). He was the Prime Minister of this country. Is that the House's authority? Is this the authority that you, as a moral, I don't know, want to show us in greatness? I think, fellow Members, that it is, of course, possible to talk about Christian love and respect, to quote the Bible here, but you yourselves drink wine and preach water or vice versa, how everyone loves it. I think that what you are saying here today is a lie about honor, honor, the authority of this House, the Bible, Christian love. It's a game! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You don't behave fairly in Parliament, either inside or outside. [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]]
u2019-11-20-302	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next two-minute speaker is Congresswoman Mátrai Márta, Housekeeper Fidesz.
u2019-11-20-303	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am simply appalled to hear this conversation today and this series of negotiations, because I also find this extremely unworthy, the style in which you are reacting here to the amendment of the Parliamentary Act and the House Rule. I am very sorry that my speech was received with so much noise that no one was paying attention. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Yes, you can. Intercoms from the opposition.]] No. Because if they had listened, they would have understood a lot of what I wanted to say. Allow me, however, this law does not distinguish between opposition and pro-government representatives, so anyone who commits a violation of the law or of the amendment of the law in the future will be subject to the same rule, and everyone is obliged to comply with the text of the law; it can be criticized, but it does not change the fact that they are obliged to comply. Allow me one thing. Today, too, there was a performance that was interestingly not challenged by those on the opposition side, including the conduct of Peter James. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] What happened here today, and the way you've been doing all this, I just find it outrageous. The dignity of the Parliament is deeply violated by the manner in which he allows himself, and the use of the word, the expression of opinion he also allows himself. And I would like to say to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm because she has questioned the bill to amend the parliamentary law that, in relation to the maintenance of the negotiating order and the disciplinary powers, the 45. I recommend to your attention, Congresswoman, in which we are writing here, it says here that:, ensuring the smooth conduct of the sitting and preserving the authority of the Parliament is the task of the President in charge of the sitting, and you really must ask the notary, the vice-president or the housekeeper. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's it. Have a nice day. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-304	Thank you, ma'am. For two minutes, Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm is the betterman.
u2019-11-20-305	Dear House, I'd like to answer to Mátrai Márta. Then do it already by asking the petitioners to coordinate the various legislative sites with each other, because two types of behaviour are not possible within a law, because this again causes uncertainty. Then they should be able to apply it. But I would like to continue to classify the actions that Fidesz has already lost one million voters by this year, and this is indeed justified by the behaviour in Parliament and the way in which they stand on our proposals and society. In recent days, for example, there have been amendments to the laws that have already been passed here by you, because in various laws, different words, terminology, provisions have been written down on the same institutions over the past few years, and now the codification of codification is being disrupted for weeks by presenting thousands to two thousand pages of material over a week. Society is being disproved because they are constantly pouring on society rumors and horrors that, of course, those who are less informed and whose ability to assert interest is weak, they are not informed of anything but your media, they certainly live in uncertainty and fear. For example, with false address announcements and controlled voting deliveries from Ukraine, the authority of public states has been reduced to such a depth that it should not be said that you in this House can, in any way, establish authority in this legislative place, which, in addition to the institution, should be given its authority primarily by two thirds of you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Except he won't give it to me. Thank you, I'll continue next time.
u2019-11-20-306	Thank you, Congresswoman. For two minutes, independent Congresswoman Bősz Anett will have the floor.
u2019-11-20-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have listened to my fellow Members who have repeatedly referred to the fact that the Hungarian Parliament is here. Well, I'd like to ask you why you're trying to argue that in this debate, when you were the ones who took the Flame of the Revolution from Kossuth Square, you took Imre Nagy away, who cast his guarding eyes on this house, and also symbolically guarded the rule of law and democracy. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, yes, you are telling the truth, this is the House of Parliament, of debates and arguments, of the service of society, not the house of rule over men. If something violates the dignity of this House, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, it is that you do not understand this, that you have made it a house of rule over people, that you have not understood the danger of putting the democratic institutional system and the standards of the rule of law on the head of society, not in the service of society, but in the service of the government, and through it you create a full power over certain institutions for the Prime Minister and for the Government. [[1.10]] The fact that you have turned these institutions upside down, destroyed, wiped out the system of brakes and counterweights is a violation of the dignity of this House. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-308	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2019-11-20-309	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It's been a year since the so-called slave law, as we called it among ourselves. I am now saying that, thanks to the good Lord, because the government side has done a great deal of good work with this law, because the protests have begun outside Kossuth Square, the tear gas and the baton have brought the opposition together, and the election result of 13 October was also born out of this opposition effort. I think, and this afternoon, I was listening to the lead speakers, and many people have pointed out that it is the fear that appeared on the government side and gave birth to this abomination, which we now have to negotiate overnight. It's a pattern like this. I was not surprised by this proposal and its content, because I expected about this from László Fat and the pro-government side. This slave law, as I said, was also good to see who is with, that the parliamentary opposition was on the side of the workers, and that the government side was on the side of the oligarchs, the adversaries, the villains, the multinational companies. Take a look at the profits the banks made in Hungary during the first three quarters of the year! They're robbing people. Last year, they were able to make a terrible profit, but now it looks like they're going to be even more effective this year. It's an old constitutional principle that all power belongs to the people. Well, not here, all power belongs to Viktor Orbán and Laszlo Fat. I, too, could talk long enough about my sixth term here in Parliament, that the Fidesz MEPs have made comments here in Parliament for almost 25 years, since I have been here. Please, this atmosphere was created by you. When a Member has no other option but to yell at me, there is a reason because they have taken away the opportunity to have meaningful debates here, that they have redesigned the house rules without arguing in plenary that there is no detailed debate here. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks.]] There's no general debate. Don't explain. When you limit the amount of time you can spend discussing a cardinal issue, don't tell me you get 12 minutes like this for a faction that you can argue in substance. I know it's hard for you to spend a day and a half on a schedule, but I think this time will come. Please take a look at this presentation, what are the words in this proposal? ! That's the kind of word that says you're banned, disabled, banned, banned, excluded, closed, drawn, abstracted. Please, what is this if it is not a draft legislation in which they want to make opposition representatives impossible? With all due respect, I'd like to say I read it in a newspaper, I can't tell you where, maybe on an Internet site, it's not your land. This is the Hungarian Parliament. Hungarian parliamentarianism has a centuries-old tradition, even if this House did not function in the form of modern parliamentarism. I think that should be taken into account. Perhaps one last time you can use such words here, which I also read in an Internet newspaper to shut your name, because this is practically the summation of this law. 'Cause so far, the teacher's been shutting up, the student's shut up, the professor, the head of the department, the student, shut up in the hospital for the doctor, the medical director, the patient's shut up, and the MTA's researcher, professor, and the president of the MTA. Now it looks like it's up to the Members of Parliament. So far, everyone has been mowed down, everything has been cut off from everyone, there has been nothing left but the closing of the mouth of the parliamentary opposition. And, of course, shut up to the government manager and employee, most of all, that's right. My friend Jenő Kaltenbach said very well, who said that the interpretation of democracy in the Parliament with this proposal had a new meaning, because it is the national rule of law. Yeah, your soul is a tremendously good illustration of that. Madam Speaker, may God bless you, we started our parliamentary work here together. You've been listening to what's going on here, what's going on. Only a fraction of what my fellow Members have said here. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks.]] I wouldn't dare now to take into account what Fidesz Members of Parliament Kósáné Kovács Magda, who could have been their mother, what they said here in this House, because it certainly doesn't tolerate printing ink. I see László Fat here will decide everything. At the time when we tabled the 2,900 amendments, we did not do it for fun, but because we calculated precisely that if this were to be discussed, the 400 hours you wanted to hit the workers would come out. And then it came, it was a reaction, two days later, to capture the grandstand. Punishment has been handed out indiscriminately. Tell you what, I wasn't even involved in taking the grandstand, but I was punished for 200,000 forints. Why? Is it because I've been broadcasting social media about what kind of scoundrels are going on here? Of course, I know that this thing hit Viktor Orbán. It's not that we took over the pulpit, it's that millions of people saw Bence Tordai's broadcast, and Lajos Korózs's broadcast, and an hour later, everyone from Reuters was here through CNN, and the country-world saw what a bunch of scoundrels you are, the country-world saw. It was the same about taking over the TV station. Are you insulting the dignity of the Parliament? [[Dr. Mátrai Márta: Absolutely!]] Aha! Do you know what violates the dignity of the Parliament? The fact that you can still sit in the National Assembly, such a dark bastard as Flória Farkas, is that you're a dark bastard like Simonka. That you can sit here in this House, when everyone knows you're a common criminal and a two-thirds law is passed by criminal law. But György Simonka and the others should be in jail long ago. It violates the dignity of the House, what the Borkai do. I don't care about his lady business, I don't care about his punchy socks, I don't care about his cheap, 600-forint aldis wine, although it burned into everyone's retina that you could have all the money you could have, you're just as much of a jerk as you used to be. [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] But I do care what the CEO of Audi said, that the money, the case that you're asking us for, is punishment in Germany. You know that line, don't you? Everyone knows that line. Why is that? Why does it violate the dignity of the Parliament if someone brings such a subject here before the agenda? Why does it violate the dignity of the Parliament if it highlights this in an interpellation? That's what they want to limit. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: No, it's not true! No, you have to read the law. The president's ringing the bell.]] Yes, you can. Dear fellow Members, If we continue to see this proposal, we have this 46. §. This paragraph states that if the Member deviates from the subject, repeats himself or yells at him, he will be reprimanded, his right to speak will be revoked. In fact, you can't expect such insane sanctions, but you can take away half a month's or a month's fees. Thank God, the president and the notaries don't have to take part in the imposition and execution of the sentence. Well, it's tougher than that. I don't know what you want to use the notaries and the president of this House for, but here's 46. § (c) that the violation of the rules of illustration is a reprimand, a warning, a withdrawal of the right to speak. If the right of opposition has been revoked, a monthly fee of one or two months, plus three sitting days or even eight days may be prohibited, and notaries shall be involved, the President shall be helped to enforce this rule. [[1.20]] And what will the notaries do? Will you help me cuff the congressman? Or a noose on his neck? Tell me, what do the notaries have to participate in? Well, you can't stop being smart. He uses a remarkably offensive expression of the dignity of the Parliament, such an attitude. This is 46. Point (d) of the first subparagraph. Please, two to four months' pay, six sitting days or maybe 15 days' notice. I understand, and the notaries must take part in the punishment. And what do they have to do? Before that, do you have to take wrestling exercises and take the congressman down to the floor or the tatami with a hip toss? [[Intercoms from both sides.]] Point 1.1.2. Please, two to four months' pay, six sitting days or maybe 15 days' notice. I understand, and the notaries must take part in the punishment. And what do they have to do? Before that, do you have to take wrestling exercises and take the congressman down to the floor or the tatami with a hip toss? (Intercoms from both sides. ) I can't imagine. I don't know if you've actually watched this, but it's more serious. In addition to the demonstration tool, I must say, my fellow Member, I do not want to make any jokes about this, but I would have expected a veterinarian to have written that ominous sign in Latin at least. [[Intercoms.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The proceedings of the sitting, the debate or the vote shall be disturbed, or the participant of the Parliament shall be disturbed in exercising his or her rights or in fulfilling his or her obligations, suspended for a period of 2-4 months and 6-15 sittings, and the notaries shall participate in the validation here. But these are more serious items. In point (f), he already says that a fee of 4-6 months may be deducted and that it may be banned for up to 30 days. These are far more serious punishments, and it is likely that wrestling training will be too small for all of this, and karate trainings will have to be taken here to enforce it. 'Cause, you know, if they hurt me like that, they wouldn't take me out of this building in the fucking life. For there should be a man on his feet who would dare to lay a finger on me to remove me from the assembly hall! 46. § (g) of the Act:. He directly threatens the use of physical violence, calls for the use of physical violence, prevents the removal of others, or uses physical violence. This is an immediate ban, a 60-day ban, and once again the president and the notaries must participate. I think that if you think there's an act of this severity, then all hell has broken loose here, so there's not enough practice here. Look, fellow Members. [[Intercoms from the opposition side.]] The law in front of us is likely to be passed, but, you know, what you're doing, you can't do it forever. At some point, this will be an outrageous end, and not only for the Members sitting here, who not only assisted it through, but also actively participated in the breakdown of democracy, rule of law, democratic parliamentary order, the skin will burn from their faces without even going out among the people. They won't! They will also be ashamed that you were once members of the Parliament of Fidesz. All of you! Because that's exactly what's gonna happen, and you know it. Last chance to try to get something out of us, somehow corner us. With all due respect, you're not gonna make it. And the time will come, not so late, that they will be terribly ashamed. They will be horribly ashamed, but not just you; everyone who operated this damn system is those who actively participated in the operation of the system of national cooperation. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-11-20-310	Thank you, Congressman. After his opponents, he's pro-government, Gábor Bányai, Fidesz.
u2019-11-20-311	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Lajos Korózs [[Lajos Korózs: Don't worry about me, about the law! Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Of course, of course, thank you, dear Congressman, I understand. I just wanted to respond to threats, so thank you, I'll listen to your advice. I would like to add my own opinion to the debate and to this law, and I would like to express my thoughts in order to eliminate the tensions that have developed between us, which have now been long and long years, or even decades. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Thank you, dear Agnes, for your advice. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'm not Agnes to you, I'm a congressman.]] Forgive me, Congresswoman, with all due respect, Congresswoman, that is what I will call you. Yes, it's okay. Thank you. I've been listening to you, and I don't want to say anything to offend you or anyone else. I think this bill is primarily about the fact that today's Parliament has reached a border. [[To intervene:]] But, we have reached a border, we have gone to the wall, I think, where both the government side and the opposition side are already giving Hungarian society patterns that I think are harmful, not only for us, for our common health, what will happen to us, what will happen to our mandate, what will happen to our election results, but also simply patterns that go out to young people, older people, educated people, uneducated people, which, in my opinion, beyond the deterioration of public speaking and the deterioration of behavioral culture, cause enormous damage to all the actors of society. [[Intercom from the opposition side.]] After we've gone up to the wall, and that also means I don't want to do it now, because Peter James isn't here, I don't think his style is good for the better voters either. Probably the style of my fellow Member who has been mentioned here also does not appeal to our constituents. That's not a question to me, because I'm getting feedback, we're getting feedback. But believe me, this style that you and we represent, I think it's stomach-stricken to a large part of society. They can't look at us, they can't look at you, they can't raise us to pedestals, because they see us not behaving like they are, we are, 199 plus a congressman. So what I've been seeing for almost 12 years or how many years, I don't know, 13 years, I've been seeing, I haven't learned this at home, I don't think that's how they raised me, and I don't think you guys have. [[A statement on the opposition side: Talk to the others.]] I'm talking to everyone, dear congresswoman, it's for everyone. I just want to say that I think that this law is an opportunity for us to stop for a moment and decide, together with this law, how we are going to react. The Hadházy attitude and actions you probably liked, that wasn't a question of reactions, but we didn't like it. Believe me, most of society didn't like it either, but these patterns are getting worse. These patterns are getting worse and worse because they are ingrained by all the actors in society; they are also in kindergarten because they see their parents taking over. I think the possibility is that we're going to have a civilized debate. You don't have to pour gasoline on anyone and light it on the neighbor and put it out to others to attract attention, but this style that we all in the House today, let's say we represent, is crossing every border. We have an opportunity to change the part of the public speech that we can influence. Yes, there are serious debates here, there have been serious debates in previous laws, and there has been no mothering, there has been no nerd among us, let's say. But it's gonna come out, if we don't stop this process, it's gonna happen every day. I think it can be stopped. You can argue with reason, you can refer to numbers, but by the way, you can bring up the past, you can talk about the future, you can talk about the present, but you can do it like a gentleman, a lady. That's what I want, but it's very difficult for you to keep your sentences inside, and so do we. Words are hard to keep here and there, too. But I have to say that because it used to be so, in the days of Mikszath, it was the same, it was the same between the two world wars, and it was not for a long time, but it does not have to continue. There's no need to continue a historical bad tradition. I ask you that for the authority of all of us, because, of course, we are going down now, other times before and after an election result, and in a campaign, but yet you, we represent the Hungarian political elite, the sentences we represent, the behavioral norms influence everything and make things worse, because we do not improve it, but we are all making this common norm and morale worse in the country. I would also like to use today's debate in this approach, not in the style that I have seen here several times, but in something more human, more cultural, let us say that we would do this in a manner worthy of politicians, and take advantage of this opportunity. Let's all be normal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[1.30]]
u2019-11-20-312	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Bányai. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, I give you the floor.
u2019-11-20-313	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking during the debate, when Congresswoman Márta Mátrai also said that if such a proposal had been tabled during the Horn government or during the Gyurcsány government, then what an uproar would have been in the right-wing benches [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Budapest would be on fire.]] that you would... [[Intercom from the pro-government benches.]] Excuse me? Same size, right? So, as Ágnes Vadai said, as these prime ministers were rated, who were also elected by voters, no matter how strange it sounds to you, so in Hungarian, if we had done this... they had all been elected Prime Minister. By the way, I would suggest to Mr Kovács, because something must be depressing his soul today, because he is so grumpy that he should press a button and then tell me his opinion, I would be very happy to listen, really, and we would be curious about it, because the whole point of democracy is to judge certain situations differently, certain questions, and perhaps it is best if we talk about them sometimes. In particular, you have referred to the fact that the government is not here because it is the internal affairs of Parliament, its own business, then this is your chance to tell us what is pressing your heart, what is pressing your soul, what is not liked by what the opposition is doing, and then it may even be that there is truth in your criticism that is worth considering. But if he's mumbling to himself, we can't even think about it because we can't hear him, I don't understand. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: I don't mumble.]] Then, I'm telling you, press a button, Mr. Secretary, and you tell me, and we'll understand what you're implying. So what I see is that this is a proposal that is nothing but that they want to regulate opposition representatives, it is a law on regulation. This is not the first time that has happened, because here my fellow Members have been very focused on what these restrictions are about. But, please, there's been a history of this rigor. The dignity of this House is constantly mentioned, so is the dignity of this House, so is the dignity of this House. Please, working as an opposition in this House since 2010 has often felt that our dignity has been violated by you many times. And I'm sure you think the other way around that we have also violated your dignity with a single comment, but you have significantly limited the scope of the opposition in this Parliament after 2010. I remember that earlier amendments could be decided in plenary in this House. I remember when, on the 20th of December, the thousands of hundreds of fiscal amendments submitted by Fidesz had to be decided by the governing majority, along with the opposition, in this House. I remember when, as Secretary of State, I went to a committee meeting by ordering the entire apparatus of the Ministry, because I wanted to give you a fair answer to all questions when I was asked from opposition, in sports and youth or drug prevention cases; that I tried to establish a normal relationship from Róbert Zsigo to Eriken Bánki, from Ferenc Szalay, who dealt with sports, or even Péter Szijjártó, who dealt with youth, to understand why we are doing what we are doing. And if you asked me a question, I didn't even think to answer that question, 'cause you guys steered once. I regularly receive that answer quite record-keeping for written questions in this Parliament, a significant part of my written questions, respect for some ministries, such as the Ministry of the Interior, I do not get any meaningful answers, but they say that I dare to ask because of the past eight years. Once my ministry received about 500 questions [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: 1250.]] This applies to the Child, Youth and Sport Ministry before Christmas, and I dared tell our civil servants to give a template answer because it seems to be about being screwed with us, but not with me, but with the apparatus, which had a task and obligation to respond, then we sent these template answers back, you know what happened? Katalin Szili threw these questions back to me and ordered me to answer your questions fairly. Well, I'm gonna take a look at when László Fat says to a question like that, which I'm gonna ask, that I didn't get a fair answer from the Secretary of State of the EMMI. I'll never get an honest answer from him. The Department of Defense has recommended that I have access to documents, because I wanted to see certain contracts; now, because of time, I do not say what kind. I've been texting them for a month to tell me where I have to go, where I can see those contracts. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] Press a button, Secretary of State Kovács. I know you're frustrated that you've been relieved, but you're still trying to process it. I've dealt with it, I've been relieved. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Just don't have the point of view of Minister Hende, who looked through the telescope at the darkness because he had the cap on. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] So I would just like to say that you have very often taken measures that have, indeed, narrowed the scope of the opposition. And they did it because they thought you could, because they have two-thirds majority, and the two-thirds majority gives you all the authority. The two-thirds majority does not mean that you are always right. If they have a majority, it doesn't mean that you're always right about every single issue. That's what Tocqueville wrote about when he talked about the tyranny of the majority, when he wrote in 1830 that, please, the minority community can come forward and feel in a particular democracy that the majority is doing a kind of tyranny. You think that because you are a big party, you have strong support, so you can handle it; you can handle scandals, because you will be swept away by the wind like a big strong river, and who cares what opposition representatives or civil society organisations or researchers or journalists bark about? After all, you not only wanted to regulate Members, you wanted to regulate journalists. I was looking at this pen, because once a journalist jumped out of there to tell him, and then I couldn't figure out why he couldn't get out of there, and it turns out it's because he's set up for them. Now they should be electrocuted if they happen to get too close to that tape. Because it simply bothers you to have spontaneous questions, to argue, or to ask unpleasant questions, where appropriate. Please, I've had so many unpleasant questions when I was running for Prime Minister, I've been pushed up by the different reporters you like, Gábor Simon, through a lot of other things. I once didn't tell them to go to a pen, and they couldn't come to an event if they did. So what I'm seeing is that you're a little overwhelmed by the impatientness that comes from the fact that you're disturbed by the fact that there's another opinion. I had a committee meeting when one of the opposition representatives said that he didn't understand why he had to listen to me here, that I was talking here, because he would go. I told you that for now, the house rules allow him to listen to what I want to talk about there. So this process did not start today, my fellow Members, but started in 2010, and in 2010 by narrowing down the rights of the opposition in different order, because you were increasingly disturbed either by criticism or by being impatient with other opinions, indeed, Mrs Mátrai, that is when you began to violate the dignity of this House. And that's when they actually started kicking the pillars of this parliamentary culture out of this structure. I'll give you another example: how many committees of inquiry have you supported in this Parliament to stand up? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: The red sludge was the only one.]] I'll show you zero. Zero! When we were the majority, we supported the setting up of all the committees of opposition inquiry, all of them, in principle. Of course, there may be no outcome for a committee of inquiry, but at least there is a means of achieving results in principle. [[1.40]] In addition, for example, the possibility of obstruction was also limited, as there was a much greater possibility for the opposition to make use of this option at a parliamentary event, a parliamentary amendment, in connection with a law. This is an awareness-raising action, obviously, when we want to focus attention on a social problem or an important social problem for us, it was a legitimate parliamentary instrument. You've lived with it before, we've lived with it before. Then they realized it was a bitch, because they had to stay up late at night, so they said it was the easiest thing to do is to eliminate or limit the possibility of doing so under different laws. That is why I think that what my fellow Member from Bánya has just said, I think that if that tone were to be the perfect voice for everyone. If it were that attitude, everyone would have the perfect attitude. I think that might be normal, too. But that is not what we are experiencing, and what we are trying to say here is who is more funny, who is more ironic, who is a little hotter in tone, that we do not see this, that is not what we are experiencing from your side, and that is what we, many others do, and that, indeed, when it comes to you, you are very sensitive, then all the problems matter, every mistake, every mistake is considered to be a major sin, but when, let us say, this happens to us, this is treated more leniently. This doesn't just happen here in a case like this, I could give you an example of foreign policy, I'm used to dealing with more, I remember that when Gyurcsány was friends with the Russians, he was Putin's finch; when Orbán is friends with the Russians, it's a prudent economic policy and foreign policy move. When we were looking for contact with the Russians, we were the happiest barracks of the Gazprom, and we should not turn east, but only west, because fresh air comes from there, and now we're opening east to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, China, and we're opening up to other Eastern countries, former Soviet successor states. I understand that the sitting point determines the position. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] Mr. Kovács, I told you to push the button, and I have to say this in such a chorus way, because it seems like you didn't understand the first time or the second time, I'm telling you this is the third time. It's right in front of you, the button is lit, it's pressed next to it. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties. Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Are you serious?]] Of course it's serious. The debate is about pressing a button and giving your opinion. I'd like to know. That is why I say that the opposition is absolutely right to raise the problems and questions that have been raised here, even if you do not like them, because these issues are not relative, but should represent the truth in absolute terms here in this Parliament. So it is perfectly natural that we will not support this initiative, and this initiative has nothing to do with the dignity of this House, by the way. It is simply that they want to threaten Members of Parliament, as they threaten journalists, threaten civil society organisations, threaten researchers. The only thing I would recommend to you is that the more you squeeze the sand, the more it will run out of your hands. However, I think it is a bit thoughtful to you that, before the municipal elections, you have said the same thing, that we are losers, we cannot win anywhere, in Szombathely or anywhere else, and then it didn't happen, and then the opinion and will of the voters changed, and Szombathely is no longer controlled by Fidesz, and Budapest is not controlled by Fidesz in many other settlements, while, of course, the Fidesz mayors and Members remain in many places. So believe me that the two-thirds majority and most of them will not always be there, and also think about what your prime minister has often mentioned, I see that this is a favourite saying or principle to him, it sounds to me that, as a given god, as a receptionist, and in an interesting way, I hope you will not be surprised when you are in a minority, and you will have to do your job under the same regulatory requirements, because you have set up these frameworks, where appropriate, and, where appropriate, will be unfavourable to you. So it is worth always thinking that the pendulum can and will swing back, that is the case in every political system, and indeed an event, an act, see: Győr sex can seriously influence the outcome of a political system. Thank you, Mr President, for your attention.
u2019-11-20-314	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK.
u2019-11-20-315	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have two comments. One is that Christian democracy in Hungary is in very big trouble. You're talking about Christian freedom, Christian democracy, conservative values. Meanwhile, what does Ákos Bod, your former Prime Minister's candidate, say? You know, when Orbán lost the first round and didn't want to take responsibility and pushed it to someone else. What does Géza Jensenszky, your former ambassador, say? Your Minister, József Pálinkás, is on his way to starting his own party, because he wants to save the Hungarian Christian democracy from you. I've got a minute, so I'll give you some news. [[Intercoms: 14 minutes. There's a normal comment.]] Oh, yeah, sure, but I'm not gonna take 15 minutes.
u2019-11-20-316	Congressman, you have 15 minutes.
u2019-11-20-317	I think what I have to say is very important. Today the European People's Party elected a new president: Donald Tusk. [[Lajos Korózs: Orbán's great friend.]] Orbán was once a great friend, today Orbán's main opponent in the European Union is one of his main opponents. Donald Tusk used very harsh and hard words today, and I think that it is also worth recording for the Parliamentary Protocol. Literally, I quote: "Fear plays an important role in politics, because of the migration crisis and the terrorist attacks of recent years, people are looking for a sense of security. Therefore, the hearts of voters are easily won by those who shout to make the country great again and to regain control. å said Tusk. By no means should the issue of security and order be given over to populists, manipulators and autocrats who make people believe that freedom cannot go hand in hand with security and the protection of borders and territories with liberal democracy and the rule of law. Who did Donald Tusk send a message to? [[Interview in the ranks of Fidesz: Definitely not for us!]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Values such as civil liberties, the rule of law and fair public conduct will not be sacrificed on the altar of security and order, which is not necessary. And those who don't like that will be de facto disqualified from the party family. Who's it to, Donald Tusk? [[Mátrai Márta: Not for us.]] Surely no, no, certainly no, no one else, Viktor Orbán, has ever thought of it by accident, that is quite clear. [[Intercoms.]] How Tusk appreciates the refugee crisis and how he appreciates Orbán's role in this, there is also a specific quote for this, also today's statement by the President of the People's Party: I remember when several people worked hard for weeks to push back the wave of illegal immigrants from Turkey. After hundreds of hours of negotiations, we reached an agreement with Ankara, resulting in more than 90 percent reduction in the number of migrants arriving. I don't need to remind anyone of the role Angela Merkel played in this process. Yet someone else took the credit. Someone who also worked hard, but only on his own narrative, while building a fence and promoting anti-migration propaganda on posters. We have to put an end to this, too. Says the President of the European People's Party. It is quite clear to whom to send a message: It is a message to Viktor Orbán, a message to a suspended member of the European People's Party, which has just lost its presidency, because Fidesz has not been invited to the renewal, so Fidesz has lost its status so far as Fidesz Vice-President of the People's Party. If you believe that it is in Hungary's national interest for your government to keep losing ground on the European stage and keep losing ground, then I think that you misunderstand the Hungarian national interest. They are also gravely mistaken when they think that this country is still the same country as, say, 2011 or 14 years old. Basically, the mood changes. [[1.50]] You've lost constituencys, I'm guessing, and you've had people look at them and look at them that people wouldn't have thought of. This was a clear and definite message to the voters that you had enough. And if there were a fair election in Hungary now, because it was not a fair choice, because they did not say that there was no dictatorship, because the opposition could win elections; Istanbul could be won by the opposition, and yet Erdoğan's system was a dictatorship. There are certain situations where it can be tilted after all. And I would say much more harshly: if there had been a decent public media in 2018, where opposition politicians could be present. Think about what you'd do if it were reversed. We'd appoint some buddies, friendly journalists, to the head of public media, and we'd say that Fidesz will never set foot in there again. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: That's what Medgyessy said!]] No one ever said that. You're not saying, my fellow Fidesz, that between 2002 and 2010, there weren't so many public media fidesz politicians? Because they were always full of fidesz politicians. Tibor Navracsics was a guest of state television even on the evening of the 2006 TV series. If it were a fair public media now, if it weren't for a Fidesz party soldier, if you weren't a Fidesz party soldier at the head of the State Audit Office, if you hadn't filled the Constitutional Court with Fidesz party soldiers, if you hadn't appointed a Fidesz party soldier to head the judiciary, you would have failed a long time ago. They're just spending so much money, billions of dollars to secure and cement this power, which has kept you in power for a while. But Hungary's immune system is waking up. October 13th showed that the situation was changing. It is well felt by those who say that this was the Stalingrad of Orbán. The turn has begun. The international revolution has also begun, and the international economic revolution has also begun. Every time you've steered, you've always steered in economics. They've always been lucky. The global crisis, the austerity, the difficulty has always somehow slipped through cycles to the Balliberal governments. We'll take a look at it when the German car companies stop, as the news comes, they've already started firing, and in a lot of places they've started pulling the brakes. It's not good for the country, but they'll see what you did to us, that you said we did the economic crisis, and it's our fault what's happening, and they'll get it back. 'Cause that's what they're gonna get! When the decline in living standards begins, even more than it is now falling back [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: That's your desire!]] That's what's gonna happen. It's not my desire, I'm telling you now that this would not be good for the country, but for once, you will have the opportunity to govern in difficulty. The other thing they keep saying is that the last eight years have been the golden age and the fantastic, and the eight years before that have been the destruction itself. That's your constant line. I would like to say that in four of those eight years, a penny of EU funds has not yet come to Hungary. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: That's not true!]] In the first four years no forints came because we were not members of the European Union. Where would he come from? [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Yes, you did.]] He didn't come! On 1 May 2004, the country joined the European Union and from 2007 it became a budgetary source for Hungary from the European Union. In Hungarian, between 2002 and 2007, Hungary was governed and the country developed so, and hospitals were built in such a way as to build 800 kilometers of motorways, 13th month's pension, and I could still tell by the fact that there was no EU funding. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: There was. And a lot of it.]] It's the truth! In the first four years, there was no EU funding. That's why I'm telling you, this is where the dog comes in, and they're gonna find out what it's like to steer under these conditions. I don't understand your smile because you didn't make the weakest Hungarian forint exchange rate? At 300 HUF, Viktor Orbán said that changing the Prime Minister is the solution. Now 335! Viktor Orbán should have disappeared a long time ago, according to his own saying. Which government turned the largest government debt into forints? It's your government. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: The Gyurcsány government.]] No! Your government is converted to Forint. Check it out, my fellow Member, it's your government. Under which government is the largest petrol price? Under your government. This was also done by your government. They have no reason to be proud, not even because all the surrounding countries are developing much better than Hungary. Today, the Romanian pensioner lives better than the Hungarian, according to Eurostat's official data. Where the Baltic countries have gone from us, where the Poles and the Czechs and the Slovaks have gone, I don't even think about it anymore. For a man who has come from the EU, you've been mishandled and even stolen. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-318	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Bence of Turdai, representative of the Dialogue in a 15-minute time frame.
u2019-11-20-319	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Let me invite you to a little time travel, because when I listened to my fellow opposition Members here, I had a feeling of déjà vu, and I have seen this somewhere. But not only did I see that I had this debate with you a year and a half ago. On the sixth day of the 18th term, on 5 June 2018 I spoke before the agenda entitled "The Parliament" and, in this way, I fully agree with myself. I don't think you can tell me that about yourselves. Allow me now to quote the relevant important parts of this speech: Mr Parliament! The people's language considers that the faces of pro-government representatives are rather thick. Compared to this, they show a surprising sensitivity when, here in Parliament, my fellow Members and I sometimes speak the truth or use unsearched words. Yesterday, my colleague, Mr Peter James, indicated his disquiet about speaking to many criminals, and I, in my speech as a virgin, as an aggravating circumstance, indicated that the Prime Minister, the so-called Prime Minister's relationship with power, was at least specific. After that, there was a considerable uproar on the side of the governing parties. They acted as if these speeches would destroy the authority of Parliament, the dignity of Parliament. I would like to tell you what has really destroyed the authority of Parliament over the last eight years. He was devastated by the fact that you were sworn to the Constitution of the Republic of Hungary and then destroyed the Republic and destroyed the Constitution. It was replaced by a Fundamental Law which did not receive the support of any opposition representative, nor did it obtain the support of the majority of the Hungarian people. You have adopted a single-key tax law that took 150 thousand forints a year from millions of employees. This has not helped to raise the authority and popularity of Parliament. You cut the rights of the Constitutional Court and then, a few years later, you filled it with party soldiers to prevent it from performing its constitutional protection function. Again, it's something that has destroyed the authority of the Parliament. You here nationalized private pension funds, took savings from 3 million people. This is what destroys the authority of the Parliament. An election law that favors Fidesz alone has been set up. Once again, this is destroying the authority of the Parliament. I'll keep going. The traffic law was also adopted here among the walls of the Parliament, which again did not help to strengthen the dignity of the House, the more the payment of the Fidesz clientship. It was adopted here, thus destroying the authority of the Parliament, nationalization of schools and the limitation of the age of school obligations, which, in addition to ruining the future of generations, is again destroying the authority of the Parliament. It was accepted here that György Matolcsy, as central bank president, could rob hundreds of billions of forints of public money. Here they accept the accounts of Péter Polt, whose activities are limited to protecting the interests of fidesz criminals or persons who appear to be. This is where tailor-made laws were adopted that served to enrich fidesz oligarchs, such as the casino law for Andy Vajna. [[2.00]] This is where Antal Rogán's various brain lesions, such as the settlement policy, were adopted, or was voted to set up the propagandaistery here. These are all things that harm the authority of the Parliament. They are now preparing to set up the Fidesz courts, thereby further impairing the remaining autonomy of the last independent branch of power. Once again, this will erode the authority of the Parliament very harshly. The fact is, my fellow Members, that you regard the Parliament of the Republic of Hungary as a playground for power rather than giving room to meaningful, meaningful debates. For my part, on the part of the Dialogue, but I believe that on the part of the entire opposition, I can say that we would be very happy to be partners in restoring the authority of Parliament. But this begins with you apologizing and correcting the damage done to the last eight years and finally returning the ground to meaningful, meaningful, constructive parliamentary debates. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-320	Thank you, Congressman. [[Bence of Turda continues without sound.]] Congressman, are you finished?
u2019-11-20-321	I would have commented on my own words, but I'll ignore it. [[Dr. László György Lu-kács: He was so convincing!]]
u2019-11-20-322	Thank you very much. Next speaker: Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik.
u2019-11-20-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, 552 days ago, on May 18, 2018, I sat in that box. My heart was pounding, because very, very few people in this country have the opportunity to represent the Hungarian people here in the parliamentary horseshoe. When I was escorted in by a staff member of the room security service and stopped in the middle, I said the oath, and I did so, and I did so that I really wanted to represent the Hungarian people here in this House. To this day, when I pass the crown, I thank God that I have been given the opportunity to work here and serve here. And there's a suggestion like that coming up. Today, this morning, I sat in the hallway of Parliament, and there was a picture of me, a picture where I groped my mouth. I feel that this legislation, which is before us, is the mouth lock law. Let's say it. There's nothing you'd like to do but silence us. That's your real purpose. You can deny that. Let us recall two sentences from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. I have listened to the debate, and no one has brought up these two sentences that I think are decisive today. September 11th, 2018:, We would never attempt to silence those who disagree with us. What are you doing? Are you going to confront Viktor Orbán? He's not one of the referrals, so I can't handle this right now, think. We can go back to 15 March 2018, when the Prime Minister said, before the elections, that we will, of course, be satisfied after the election. Moral, political, and legal satisfaction, too. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We're here today and we're having a mouth lock dispute. It's after 2:00 a.m., I beg you. What is this if it is not an impossibility for the opposition? ! Why didn't you give us the opportunity to express our opinion this morning when we started this debate with the lead speaker? Who's up yet? I think there's nobody in this country but us. However, this is such an important debate that it would be justified to ask fellow citizens, the Hungarian people, to know what is going on in this House. Of course, I'm not completely organized either, because I don't know how long I've been sitting here in Parliament because it's my job. That's why I took the oath. 552 days ago, I took this oath to serve the Hungarian people. Yes, you can dance, yes, but it would be nice to go home. But that's why you took the oath. Or wasn't that why you took the oath? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No! Interview from the benches of Fidesz: I have my own area!]] Yeah, well, let's talk a little bit about this individual area and the list. Why are they looking down on us, who have entered this Parliament from a list? Here, my opposition fellow Member has already said that more people voted for this part of the horseshoe than for you. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: 52,6 percent!]] 52.6! Thank you very much, Mr Agnes Kunhalmi, for correcting me, even giving me the exact number. What happened? The people sent us here to make sure we were braked on your rampage. 'Cause what's happening? They're restricting our rights. Oh, yeah, you could say they had their rights and then go to public institutions. The truth is, that's what hurts me the most. Yes, I was at the MTVA headquarters, and my fellow Member Hende said that he was lying on the ground. Yeah, I was lying there, too. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Me too!]] 'Cause at the time, I thought that this moment was a true reflection of your system. We have come to see this happening in the Hungarian public media. If it's scandalous or not scandalous, it's up to us to decide what we're going to do, but so far, we've had the right to go there. Now what? Shall we check in? They're not gonna let us in! Or what has already been said in the debate this morning is that there will be public institutions where suddenly, when the opposition representative has checked in, that he would like to see it, and then quickly clean up, paint, remove bed bugs, and in hospitals I don't know the mold spots. They're doing everything in order to make sure that this is what the opposition representative sees when he goes there, and maybe he's doing a Facebook live check-in, which, by the way, gets to a lot more people than MTVA news, because it's only seen by people who are poor, they don't have any other way to find out. But we have come to the point where you restrict our right to know the real Hungarian situation. 'Cause it's not real from the moment I checked in. It was quite correct to say that the National Tax and Customs Office does not knock on the door, except in the case of checks that it does so, but the biggest penalties, the penalties for small people, are imposed by going there prompt and carrying out checks. You're taking that right away from us. One more important thing, because there has been a lot of talk in this debate. The intention to prevent the negotiation of the series of articles in plenary is at the top of the list. Yeah, how do you talk about that at the committee meeting? Well, I'm sorry, I think everyone has the right to give their opinion here in plenary. Everyone has the right to express their views on the application for inclusion in the series, which you regularly reject, here in plenary, at a place whose historical spirit I do not think should be explained to anyone. Understand, there are very serious barriers to this legislation. Yeah, when I took that photo this morning, I really thought it was the mouth lock law. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-324	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Böröcz, Fidesz.
u2019-11-20-325	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to respond briefly to a few things about the law. On the one hand, I would say to Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm that the absences were also calculated by the current legislation on the basis of the votes, not on the basis of the days, so there has been no change in that. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's my problem!]] Just to talk about it. The other, which is also a total error of substance, although this was said by Szabó Timea during the previous speeches by the lead speaker, that the Speaker would then decide which committee to sit on. [[Bence of Turdai: I read it! Literally.]] That's not true. You should have read more clearly then, Congressman Tordai, the text. So many changes have been made, so far the speaker has proposed... [[Bence of Turda: No! The faction leaders' agreement!]] If you don't mind, I'll go through it, Congressman, and then you can respond. So so far, the Speaker has proposed that the committee hands be presented to the House. [[Bence of Turda: No!]] indeed, after consulting the faction leaders. [[Bence of Turda: No! As agreed.]] The current amendment only states that, in the case of independent Members, not all Members should be consulted separately, but that it is sufficient for the data subject. You should have read the bill better. [[2.10]] But to be honest, I cannot help but react to a few things, because what has been said here from the mouth of some Members, although Congressman Bányai, our colleague, I believe that he has tried to give me guidance, but unfortunately it has not worked, I am convinced that these rules, Mr Mesterházy, have said that they will also apply to us. Yeah, they're gonna apply to us, too. [[Zsolt Gréczy and Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm intervene.]] They're gonna apply to us even if we're on the government, and they're gonna apply to us even if we're not on the government. If you're here to introduce this obscene, primitive style, that's possible, but I don't think we're going to be partners. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-20-326	Thank you very much. The next two-minute Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, Jobbik!
u2019-11-20-327	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to address Mrs Mátrai Márta. You just told me how we behave here. The obscene words you've heard are all the words of your fellow Members. In the past year and a half, I've never heard him say once, when, by the way, he rarely respects the meeting, that he would have said that he was apologizing on behalf of your fellow factions and his KDNP associates. I didn't hear your word, for example, to apologize to me when my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacs, said only because I gave the speech about the pulpit because my eyes were getting worse, and from there I could see it was that simple, he said after that, you see, I finally climbed up to the pulpit. I still didn't hear you apologize on behalf of your faction. I didn't hear your words when Réka Szererkényi said he didn't care about women. I'm sorry, but I think you're a hypocrite on this, and I expected a lot more from you. If you, as a housekeeper, are trying to preserve the dignity of this House, you should start with your own faction first. We are constantly subject to insults, for example, at committee meetings, that if there is no professional argument against us, then there will be insults. Among the petitioners, there are several Members who, both in plenary and in committees, make sexy statements to the ladies, and men are regularly concerned with words that I will not repeat here. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies If you are so sensitive, do so by starting this sensitivity in your own community, perhaps the House would be better off with it. I would be ashamed of myself, if I were you, to quote such sentences and words here today. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-328	Thank you, Congresswoman. I have been giving the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh for two minutes, DK.
u2019-11-20-329	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A few minutes ago, my colleague, Mr Korózs, said that this would all be over. You called out to me that you were threatening me, and in a few months' time, a withdrawal of up to 4-6 months could be due to this thing, saying that it would all be over. This means that you will determine how many months of punishment a dandelion or a gourmet will result, because it will harm the dignity of this House. Shouldn't we be punishing the House's dignity because you're not rebelling at the fact that we don't see any opposition representatives on public television? Because it's bad for the dignity of this House! Make a rule about how much you have to pay at a time like this. Isn't it bad for the dignity of this House, and what should be punished is that, this year, DK is about to have a hundred press releases that MTI, which are also paid from public money, refuses to issue, because it might contain the name of Mészáros or Tiborcz? And you can throw that back in Hungary? This is bad for the dignity of this House, and it should actually be punished by everyone. Should we not be punishing the possibility of not voting on Members' amendments but simply obstructing the whole package? Shouldn't we be punishing the House's dignity, and what is bad for the House is that if the floor is choked on the Members and the executive presidents simply close the session? This is bad for the dignity of this House, and it should be punished months after that! But it may also be possible to punish, and it will also harm the dignity of this House, that you refuse to touch the family allowance, and that the President of the Republic's salary will be doubled. And it may also harm the dignity of this House that there are people among you who have the same 341 names on their recommendation sheets as those of a fake couple. By the way, the police and the D.A.'s office have ruled that an election fraud has been committed, but none of the 341 have been asked to reveal that your representative sitting here is guilty. This is bad for the dignity of this House, my fellow Members. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-330	Thank you very much, Congressman. For two minutes, Congressman Antal Csárdi will take the floor.
u2019-11-20-331	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, My fellow Member, Gábor Bányai, had a very heartfelt and fair voice. What a pity that we know that the facts say otherwise, and that is not a criticism of Congressman, do not misunderstand. He said it could be argued. Am I remembering right? As Máté Kocsis said this afternoon in his speech as a speaker, no one wants to restrict the rights to the free debate. And I think that the free debate or the, for example, can be debated, as part of an illustration. I'm sure you'll all remember, if we had counted backwards, during the debate on the second bill, in several comments, I can't even tell you how many numbers I've said, and I think that it would have been possible for you and, by the way, for the voters after the sitting, if I had shown up, I would have shown up just like this. [[He's showing me a document.]] a paper, a graph of what the financing of the BKK means compared to the financing of public transport in Prague. But there is no precedent, certainly not in this cycle, but also in previous cycles, unfortunately, that housekeeping has once contributed to the use of visual aids. On the other hand, I think that you can argue, if you have someone, because if you have someone, then I can argue. But let's be honest, in the vast majority of the law's debates, you are not involved. You will sit silently in the debate, if you are at all here, and the author will say in the closing words how badly the opposition thinks about the world. This cannot be called a debate; the debate requires two parties. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2019-11-20-332	Thank you very much, Congressman. László Böröcz, Fidesz asks for the floor outside the order.
u2019-11-20-333	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to respond to a few things, but it didn't last two minutes. The truth is that Mr Szilágyi, notary, has had a few remarks about what violates the dignity of the House and what does not violate its dignity. What I'm saying in advance is that there are obviously some of the Jobbik representatives who even I respect very much. Although this current bill, which we are discussing, is obviously about, as Congressman Bányai said, that there should be some normal tone here in the House, and in many cases this obscene, in many cases primitive style should be abandoned. And I am also willing to accept that there have been some fidesz manifestations, even out of anger, that this category, which we set, did not meet, and obviously, if so, then I think everyone, even if we sometimes find it difficult to say to each other, so obviously we follow each other, and we apologize. But from the point of view of Jobbik, let us first stay with Jobbik, we could give a long list of cases that could otherwise be linked to a violation of the dignity of this House. And by the way, that's true of all the other factions. Well, I could also quote the not-so-nice terms that you and your fellow party here in this Chamber have said outside the micron, shouting out at times, into a microphone. So that's why they're like this, so let's not do this, please. In the case of Jobbik, there are a number of cases that can be easily blamed for the fact that in the last eight years certain ethnicities, certain religious communities or other groups in Hungary have otherwise been humiliated, and have been spoken about or expressed in a way that violates them. [[2.20]] So perhaps it would be better if we all held back a little bit at that time, but since it was not just about this law, it was about a lot of other things, and Congressman Gréczy thought that this was such a storytelling afternoon, and then it would bring up everything that was in it. I am convinced that Mr Gréczy does not understand the concept of net present value, but that does not really bother me. However, when assessing the actual success of the Gyurcsány era and the Orbán government, it is quite easy to see, on the basis of some factual figures, that one of them was a failed economic policy era, if I look at the economic policy era only narrowly, and the Orbán government is a successful economic policy era. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 335 HUF euro, 27% VAT!]] Now, that's what I said about the net present value that I can't complete. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] So I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in fact, Hungary was in ruins under the Gyurcsány government before the global economic crisis. [[Zsolt Gréczy: In the summer of 2008 economic growth was 4 percent! Gergely Arató: Did you tell him in kindergarten, Congressman? The president's ringing the bell.]] There wasn't a single year under the first Orbán government, 1998 to 2002, and then all the other post-2010 Orbán governments, when the deficit itself would have been higher than in your best period. [[Gergely Harvestó: Education and health are dead!]] That's the truth. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 500 billion HUF...]] that the formula is actually very simple, because I think there are two versions. Someone or you are incapable of good governance because you do not have the expertise to do so, and therefore you are bankrupting the country economically. It's a serious mistake, there's nothing to be done, obviously the voters have elected someone, they're steering, they're destroying the country, that's all. The other is that he has the ability, but corruption has taken the focus off government at a level that is why the country is ruined. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What corruption are you talking about?]] None of them are good, that's the truth, and that's exactly what happened underneath you. [[Continuous intervention from the lines of MSZP and DK.]] I beg you, Congressman. How did Ferenc Gyurcsány buy his first purchased company? From what? How did Ferenc Gyurcsány buy the aluminium manufacturing company in 1997? [[Zsolt Gréczy: Credit. So?]] Yes, the Hungarian Credit Bank, Tiny Piroska approved the transaction, 700 million HUF. [[Noise. President's ringing.]] I'm sorry. Speaking of who's responsible here... [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Congressman, I listened. Yeah, it wasn't easy, but I listened to what he said. [[Lajos Korózs: I don't want to listen to you. Sit down. The president's ringing again.]] Come on. Congressman Korózs, the truth is, if there had not been a change of regime, you would now be Mr. Secretary General Gyurcsány's button-printer in this Parliament, so please don't allow this style to happen. [[Noise. Constant interrogations from the ranks of MSZP and DK. The president's ringing the bell.]] The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that, by the way, Communists have a very simple mindset. [[An uproar in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]] Everyone else is stupid, and by the way, they hide it by saying that the communists throughout history have always had a comma steed of fear for democracy. You guys are always afraid for democracy, too, but we'll be able to continue, because I think you're very excited about this. By the way, I'm beginning to realize that there may actually be something true about that saying, as I look at you in a group like this, that the Communists... [[Lajos Korózs: I was not KIS Secretary! Zsolt Gréczy: Antal Rogán KISZ Secretary! The president's ringing again.]] So let's start again. Communists are graduate liberals. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There may be something in this, because I'm beginning to feel that there is a basis for this, but then we'll continue. Thank you. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Mátyás Szűrős! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-334	Thank you, Congressman. [[Noise. å Interjections.]] The next speaker will take a 15-minute time frame... Congressman Oláh, I would like to say that in the next 15 minutes' time, Mr László Varju, DK. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-20-335	I see that tonight's debate is a source of advice for all of you to give your fellow Members. I'm sure it's worth thinking about. Before my fellow Member Böröcz spoke, I had the feeling that perhaps the moment had come when they began to see the stupidity they had done by submitting this law, at least you, who are taking part in this debate today, and who feel the trouble they are doing, and for at least a moment they are passing through their minds, that, yes, this opposition should not be tried to be silenced by such methods. So far, they've been relatively distracted by thinking and saying, "Silence!" Now they're here for the shut-up! To the law, and when will you come when you want to call out a shut up? When are you going to use the violence that you're threatening to use here? That is why I said in the two-minute comment that I am convinced that you are extremely frightened of what you are doing; with that Pharisee attitude, you believe that you will be in order, and you will set the standard by telling us what you think is right. While more people are trying to refer to the normal tone of voice here to do so, they come here with this law, but not only with regard to the house rules and the functioning of Parliament, but also with regard to the abolition of the constitution, they did the same with the electoral law, you have decided to publish the truth. And then you're surprised that the opposition representatives are upset, and while you're trying to take everything away from us, you're going to want to eliminate all possibilities, and you're going to rule here? ! Well, don't be surprised, especially when it comes to the slave law, that, above all, in the interests of our voters, of our supporters, Members who speak for workers think that much more needs to be done to wake you up, that what they are doing is harmful to you, too. The fact that he's hurting you, I'm less concerned with it, because sooner or later, it's gonna turn out that Lőrinc Mészáros is gonna be even richer, and now he's reaching 1200 people in the world, and that's all you've managed to do. I hope you get something from this, because at least you're not so much losers that you just give everything to someone else, and that's how you do it. What I see is that those of you who would otherwise have a say in this, such as Peter Polt, will not help you, even if you have been appointed for nine years. Now, on what our fellow Member Gábor Bányai has started here, I said that in case something at least grabs you, but I have to say that perhaps this will not go further than tonight, half past half past three, that, yes, in this fear, you want to put the limits on the opposition, put on the cuffs that you do not actually count on, you do not know exactly what they will be. At the moment, they're acting like an aggressive piggy who yells "Shut up!" That's how I land. And anyone who has a different opinion on this matter is unacceptable to you. I mean, I have a feeling that with the more than a hundred pages of proposals that you've brought here in detail, we're not going to go much further into this, because you've already decided to vote. [[2.30]] But once again, I would like to draw your attention to what I said in a previous comment, that democracies can be executed with weapons, and that can be executed with everyday acts now, that is what you are doing. The first step is to introduce laws requiring consensus without agreement, and they believe that it is you who can set standards, who can tell us what is the truth, and that is the exclusive truth that you are proclaiming. You are the slow killers of Hungarian democracy, and don't be surprised if you get what you are doing from home or from the international side, how hateful this is and how far from our values it is. In order for us to be here side by side as members of the Committee on Budgets, you are, as a concrete example, active participants in the fact that, in essence, the budget has been completely withdrawn from the control of the Hungarian Parliament, and you are looking at this, you know exactly, you have watched that while the Minister of Finance or even the President of the Hungarian National Bank no longer attends the Budget Committee, it does not belong to any account, but it has been relocated to the Economic Committee, because, by the way, you believe that in that committee, alongside the Fidesz President, you can get some kind of umbrella. So by this method, as you have come here now, and another law is being passed here without agreement, which, I think, is unacceptable in this form, again proves that you are seeking revenge on those electors here with a number of laws side by side, isn't it, here today, that all of this is being done in order to show these voters that you are the true Lord here? But it doesn't take long, it's temporary, and that's why I think it's really us! strengthens. And all that I have said is the opposite of what I would like to say here from the speech of the lead speaker or from the speech of the national speaker, and I would like to recall some of it here. With the previous ones, I wanted to support the very great lie and the opposite of the fact that we, the Fidesz MEPs, were democrats here this morning. Well, you, ladies and gentlemen, with these, what you're doing is as far away from Mako Jerusalem as you are. You have nothing to do with democracy, no matter what the adjective you try to use. You are the actors who serve an autocrat leader, a dictator, and create the conditions and legal conditions for them to feel that, by the way, after this decision or a decision, they can actually do anything the next day: they will put out a tender as they want, they will make whatever decisions they want in ministries, and by the way, the Speaker of the House will make decisions that he will want to make. You have heard this from my fellow Members, what real opportunities they have. They say that what the opposition does is annoying to all good people. Well, with all due respect, that's not true at all. Most of the people I'm meeting... 90 percent of the people I met gave me the encouragement, no matter whether I'm doing it in Newpesten or this afternoon in Gardony, they said that you are the ones who are really outraged at you, and in this, the political decisions, the laws that have been made, the economic decisions that you're making, all of this, and you're actually lucky that the opposition took the courage, the opportunity, the knowledge to stand up to everything you're doing here in this Parliament in cooperation. The Venice Commission has been quoted here, Mr Fisherman, that the opposition must also comply with the laws. Well, then, honourable Members, how about you don't make laws to exonerate yourselves from what you're about to commit by the day after tomorrow? When rules have been put in place for the use of the European Union resource, which, although exemptions and decisions have been made here in the new framework, we can see in the end that more than 700 billion forints have been imposed just because it is apparent... that more should be drawn away, and therefore Hungarian citizens have to pay more of the taxpayers' money, because you have deliberately caused harm to Hungary. And despite the Prime Minister's explanation here that we have not been punished, I understand the use of the word, but one thing is for sure: from the account of Elios 15 billion, it is possible to use and classify for a very long time what was otherwise paid to the Hungarian taxpayers, the 27 percent VAT, the connected tax machines, and, by the way, the tax that ignored gambling, but from the tax that was collected, yes, you have paid the bills that were fraudulent invoices, sold or purchased at multiple prices the service that you made in the framework of a tender. Therefore, don't quote the Venice Commission to me, don't tell us that otherwise we must obey the laws. We are working to ensure that the voters who sent us here to make you realize that it would be time, instead of stealing so much, to deal with people's fair health care and decent education, so that the ceiling doesn't fall on their heads, Congressman, the person who gets into the hospital [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] so that 30,000 people don't have to die every year, I could say as a citizen of Újpest [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] not to die 300 Newpests just because you're otherwise incapable of doing normal health care [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] To prevent and prevent doctors from leaving, so that nurses would want to stay home, and not wish to leave Hungary for twice or three or four times as much. And you should also be aware of those who, by the way, send you a message that you have to do something completely different, because we, who are still here for adventure, are still doing what we do to remind you that what they are doing is definitely not good. So the message of the Venice Commission is not for us, but for you, gentlemen, whether you like it or not, that is true. They talked about how Parliament's operation, the work of the Member of Parliament, is an atypical activity, and what we have to do in this context. Well, I'd say you might remember it, but I started working as a miner, not an atypical activity, that's a clear, eight-hour job. But here, in this environment, I believe that I must consistently apply it to calling their attention, consistently, if necessary, then at times I am also a bomber master, otherwise, if they need it. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] But the point is that I draw your attention to what you are doing to Hungary, and here with your Fundamental Law instead of the Constitution, otherwise in many cases, this law, as it is, is unacceptable, and as an opposition, I object to any violation of our rights in any way. Don't accept this law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[2.40]]
u2019-11-20-336	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2019-11-20-337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, when I came to Budapest, I usually come by train and land at Nyugati station, a very surreal picture was received at Nyugati station, as surreal as the law we are discussing here at 3:45 p.m. in Parliament. I got off the train, it was raining outside. We could say, "It's just out there," because whoever knows the Western Railway Station is in such a bad state, it doesn't matter if we're in or out. Inside the hall, it breaks the same way, even though it's a little worse, because there are channels where they gather, and the water comes down with a little more force. As soon as I land the XIII. On track, it's opposite the main entrance, and you hear a brass band. [[László Böröcz: Where?]] At West Station, a brass band at 4:30 p.m. I thought something wasn't right, someone's walking in front of me with a loudspeaker, listening to classical music, you don't hear it often, and then I get to the front door, and I see that there's really a wind band there, and they play at 3:30 in the afternoon. I thought that, in some ad hoc way, young people would stand up and play music, and then it would turn out that behind their backs it was written that the MÁV would be renewed. You know, I've been standing like this, how many cars have been replaced, or locomotives, or maybe now it's written out that the train that I've come in with isn't 160 minutes late, or the train that starts, the zoner isn't late 60, 45, and the rest of it, and there's a flight that's missing, the ticket office's open, the machine's working. No, the MÁV is renewed. I thought to myself that I would now get off the train in a good mood after I was two hours late, but a brass band could bet, and I would start with a brass band, and it would only improve my mood. Can you imagine today that the XXI. In the century, with the problems of the MÁV... it was very surreal, and I came here to argue. Allow me one sentence. I don't want to live up to you, God forbid. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: Don't threaten me!]] I don't want to, God forbid. But this law, I almost got emotional here at Gábor Bányai, I already pulled out the handkerchief to cry, but then I always have to remember not to take these charades. Then, when my fellow Member Böröcz can no longer reason, he makes a good communist, but a good taste. Although I've lived to see it when they yelled at me that I was a communist, and then I told them to at least read my birth date, because if I wanted to, I wouldn't have been able to. [[Happy István: It is not a date of birth!]] And then one of the congressmen yelled at me the same way, and they said he was your father, because they don't know what to say anymore. I'm sorry, my father certainly wasn't; many of you are still sitting on the server of that system. But if we look at the law, my better fellow Member here said, Anita, that what hurts him the most in this law is the control of public institutions. Then I'll ask you a question: how long am I a congressman, and when am I a private person? They won't be able to stop me from going into a public institution. [[Interjection from the pro-government lines: You have to read the law!]] But, I have read the law, and don't say that, my fellow Member, that we will never read anything. I'm really glad you came to Parliament because we don't see much of that from you when we're criticizing each other here. But they won't be able to stop me because, you know, as a congressman, I'm going to the hospital, because that's what fate does. How are you going to stop me as a congressman from seeing, say, things that I've seen this week, not taking my phone out and taking pictures and sharing it with the world of social media? I'll share it on Facebook, I'll share it. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks.]] And they won't be able to stop me because... [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: Who wants to stop it?]] But they won't be able to stop me from going into all the other institutions, even though they want me to, because I'm a private person, and I'm a congressman. [[Happy István: It also shows that you are a communist, you talk so much nonsense! The president's ringing the bell.]] Happy Congressman, I'd worry about something else if I were you, and you know what I'm talking about. [[Interjection from the pro-government line: Calm down!]] And if we read this law and go back to where it started... it's safe to insult it. [[Happy István: No offense, you have to read it. Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: Fact finding.]] Mr. President, it's your duty here. I know that the president cannot be criticized, only when we talk about double standards, and they will do even better, so here it comes out, when the Fidesz or KDNP leader doesn't say a word about what you're doing and you need to intervene. [[Gábor Bányai: Hiller didn't say a word. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-11-20-338	Go on, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-20-339	This double standard is constantly present. No one has even mentioned where we started a year ago at the slave law, and I am glad that Congressman Lezsák is here as the leading president... how we started, that at that time, Mr. President of the House of the House had withdrawn the floor from the Members: Bernadett Szél, I, Ágnes Vadai, did not speak to President Attila Mesterházy. It was then that other means had to be used by opposition representatives because they had taken the rights of pro-government representatives, which, by the way, were available to a representative in the house rule. Besides, I read the Fundamental Law quite often, and the Fundamental Law provides what a Member has to do and what rights he has. You should read it, it's your Fundamental Law. It provides for the election of a congressman and the boss of a congressman. Not you, not László Fat. You are not the only representatives elected, but the Hungarian people. And the Fundamental Law provides that all Members have equal rights and obligations. [[Interjection from the pro-government lines: Yes, there is no debate.]] But you write your own Fundamental Law with house rules and all kinds of amendments, just as the current Fundamental Law has already imposed such restrictions. Let me give you a very serious example and a reason why this law cannot be adopted for many reasons, or these amendments. You know very well how many penalties László Kövér has imposed on opposition politicians in recent years, and then opposition politicians turn to European courts and win these lawsuits. It's just, you know, we may get 100,000 forints of punishment, but the Hungarian citizens... because the European Court of Justice will impose an illegal punishment on the Member in previous cycles, and then several million forints of compensation will be awarded to the Member, several of these lawsuits may take place in 5-6-7 years, and the European Court of Justice will say that the President of the House has wrongfully decided against the Members, because he has been restricted in his rights, and this penalty will be paid on the taxpayers' money. The same will happen to László Fatér last December. László Fatvér is committing a crime by imposing penalties in the knowledge that he is aware that the Members of the European Court of Justice will be judged for this compensation and that he will intentionally harm the budget. You think it's because they put it in a piece of paper like this, and your representative stands up, and you're saying that you have to impose a penalty on opposition representatives to hurt? I'm telling you, it doesn't hurt, no matter how much they cut, it doesn't hurt, I might even love it. It doesn't hurt. We're going to court. I could say that there is no greater investment in Hungary than that when an opposition representative is punished and Uncle Fat Laci will impose the punishment by committing a crime because he knows it, and in years I will get back many times from the citizens. Well, the best investment possible. Then punish me. 12 months! ? Tell me one thing, because László Kövér is not our boss, how can it happen that, say, for a year, a Hungarian citizen does not get paid, tell me how this can happen if he receives such punishment! ? [[Márta Mátrai: The congresswoman does not know the law.]] But I know the law, Congresswoman, I know it. [[2.50]] The only reason you can see this in Hungary is that you don't give a damn what kind of right employees have, because somewhere we're just employees. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: This is a fee.]] I know we're getting a fee, Congressman, but you've made a law that doesn't do any other kind of work that's legitimate for a congressman. We're gonna get a tribute. Yeah, I understand that you're being punished, just tell me how it can happen that a penalty like six months doesn't get paid by a congressman or, say, a year. [[Dr. Mátrai Márta: Minimum wage!]] Don't bring the devil out of me, Congresswoman, I could also say the minimum wage, who should receive a minimum wage in Hungary and who should be punished for this minimum wage. And then why Members often use tools that surprise you. The law itself has changed in recent years, because you no longer apply the traditional method of law, but in most cases you submit most of the laws as an independent motion, as soon as possible, you do not have to send them to institutions or civil society organisations for social consultation, no one should ever comment. As a stand-alone motion, one day we submit it, the next day it can be accepted, and in recent years every law that has harmed Hungarian society has been adopted in this way in the National Assembly, because it has been submitted this way. Then, of course, don't be surprised, and don't be surprised that the opposition itself is going to use the tools we say they may not have seen 10-20-30 years ago, but let's say they saw hundreds of years ago the means they used at the time. The other is that my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, said that in this law the word ban and punishment is a great deal. You know, what I'm thinking is that you guys want to act like you do in the family when we want to punish the kid for doing something wrong, and then we're gonna forbid him, we're gonna let him, we're gonna threaten him. It's just, you know, the opposition is like, the more you're banned, the better you're gonna do it. You can't ban it! And what Mr Bányai said: I hope that he will stand up at a Fidesz faction meeting, and he will say there, too, that the ban may not be the best way to change something. Perhaps dialogue, conversation, debate, reasoning would be worth a lot more. It's not that we forbid, we punish, we regulate, we don't allow anything. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán intervenes.]] Then allow me to say that you were the first to commit that despicable act. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That they had left Parliament and barred them. You can look here in the past at who did what, I'm just saying, you should take out that mirror, and then we could bring a lot of things into the walls of the House, that when you were in opposition, what things were done, or, you know, when you're on the government, what things were said here, inside the walls of the House, and, you know, I got it myself, when it might not be 3:00, only an hour told me what a mother was doing here in Parliament, she should be home, because that's her job. That's your job. I'm not questioning what you're doing or how you get in here. I think it's everyone... we're grown-up people, and I can decide how much I can handle, how much I can work, how much I care about my family, and I'll know what I have to do. But no government representative can afford to tell me what I have to do or what I shouldn't do. I say, I repeat myself: the Hungarian people have elected us, and we are given equal rights by the Hungarian people, and you are not our bosses. And that's why you can't accept this amendment because you're not our bosses. They may be on the government, and they'll be a few more years, but they're not the bosses of the opposition. And, you know, it's like Russian roulette. You know, the gun's loaded, and you don't know who's gonna have the bullet in that magazine, and who's gonna have it. Well, that's the law. There's gonna be a bullet in the magazine someday, but I'm not sure it's gonna go off with the opposition. Well, let's think about that then. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-20-340	Thank you, Congresswoman. For two minutes, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, MEP DK, who is not present; then to Mr Gergely Arató, who is also absent. Congressman Csaba Nagy Fidesz, two minutes!
u2019-11-20-341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to tell you frankly that I didn't want to say anything, but I do have to say this at dawn, because I have to say that when you experienced the change of regime, you hoped that, both in Parliament and in local democracies, the debates would be meaningful stories and that they would be about what was on the agenda. I have just heard a 15-minute comment from Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. He didn't say a letter, a word, a sentence about the resolution proposal, or the bill. We've heard all kinds of things about him, from him. He classified the bill as such, and then he said he didn't give a damn about it, and then he told us not to pull the devil out of it, and then he used the word despicable. And then he said to the Speaker that when he's exercising his right, he's committing a crime. In fact, it is very difficult to take part in such a debate and to consider these debates a sensible and constructive debate. What I can tell you is that if you live through the change of regime and sit through many, many municipal meetings, Parliament meetings for many years, then you know that every debate has meaning or no meaning. I think that what is going on here at dawn is meaningless, I wouldn't call it a debate, it's a senseless series of conversations, often about things that have nothing to do with the proposal for a resolution and the bill that has been tabled. And I have to say that you have caused it to yourself, since the change of regime, this Parliament has been able to operate on the basis of customary law, parliamentary decency and all kinds of legislation, it has been lost by 2019. I think you're the greatest sinners. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2019-11-20-342	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Congresswoman Agnes Vadai will have the floor.
u2019-11-20-343	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that Congressman Csaba Nagy decided to speak. And I'm so sorry that you weren't here yesterday during the defense laws debate, because imagine, your party partner, your fellow political groupmate, the Secretary of State for Defence on one of the bills that was a salad law, you gave a production report that your government was the coolest government in terms of the development of the army. At the time of our administration, it first began with the Gyurcsány-Juhás-Szekeres-trio, then became the Gyurcsány-Szekeres-Juhás-Vadai quartet, then only Gyurcsány-Vadai-duo, I don't know how we got to this point, what I did or did not do for the defence. It was a great honour to think that I was in charge of the Hungarian Defence Forces in this political position. So what I would like to say to you is that it happens very often on the part of the pro-government Members, and even on the part of such excellent State Secretarys as the current Secretary of State for Defence, who apparently knows a lot of things, that when the debate of a bill begins... although my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély spoke a lot about the bill, unlike Szilárd Németh, who actually only read a production report, read weird ones, I would like to say. It had nothing to do with reality, and the accounts of Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Zsolt Gréczy covered reality, which I would like to say. I can't tell you about my hopes for a change of regime, because I was little at the time, so I couldn't be much of a communist either, although that doesn't mean anything in your life. I was hoping to go to a good school. That's where I'm really going. It's been shut down since then. I was hoping I'd have a good first job. Well, that one's been canceled, too. So, this is your administration. Thank you very much. [[3.00]]
u2019-11-20-344	Thank you very much. In the next 15 minutes' time frame, Ms Ágnes Vadai, DK. [[Defiance.]]
u2019-11-20-345	It's a big day. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out a few things about the bill, but first I have a zero point. Obviously, it is because our interests here in Parliament are not the same. There is one occasion where I believe that you have had a great influence not only on my life but also on the life of the opposition. Because, by the way, he spoke very nicely about what should be done here in Parliament, and I think that there is no debate between us, although he was not very in line with what his fellow Members said here from the time of communism to many things, but, well, let's share with the world that you were the one who was the supplier of the slave law, apart from Kristóf Szatmáry and Lajos Kósa. I would like to say this because, after all, your legislative activity has influenced the lives of the opposition, so thank you for that. I would encourage you to take more of these steps so that the consistency between opposition representatives is even stronger. I would add, Congressman, that there was a bit of hypocrisy in what you said, because every time your fellow Members or the Speaker here said things about us, which are unacceptable, I have not heard and I have never seen you come up to me, let's say, and would have said that you did not think so. Here, in front of the great plenum, where there are fewer of us, and I miss the KDNPs most sincerely, I tell you honestly, the government is not, but the KDNP MEPs' guidance on this matter should be very much needed, because every Monday they tell us the Christian love, the dignity of the Parliament, Bible quotes, they must now be a light here, in the night or at dawn, and they could point us in a real direction. So what I would like to say to you, Congressman, is that, for example, while our fellow Member, Gabriella Selmeczi, was attacked by an otherwise left-wing political scientist about her appearance, I specifically protested against this, because I believe that it is not on this basis to be judged. We must have political debates here, and I would like to say this to all Members. With regard to the parliamentary law, as in many other cases, I would like to say that in this House, in addition to dignity, because it has become such a common word, the other word is the whole national matter. I think this has to have something to do with the fact that it's a national case. Yesterday, I listened to the fact that it's a national matter to protect the country. I'm one of the traitors here, as I listen to it from week to week from the pulpit and from you, and I read it in the papers, but I really believe in these things. I think how a Parliament works is not about a cycle, not a person, not a behavior, but a long-term process, which is a national issue, what rules we make. It's not that it's either a two-day ban or a three-day ban, or I don't know what it is, because obviously the ruling party can still say that he has the right to do so. I don't think so, but say that. But how to regulate the functioning of the Parliament and its Members' licenses in this context, forgive me, but that is not your exclusive right. Not even because today we are in a better position than, let's say, in Belarus, where the opposition did not enter the parliament thanks to the electoral system, there are still opposition representatives here, and there are even opposition mayors, representative bodies in the municipalities, and they are also sitting in the European Parliament representing the opposition. When we talk about our rights, we don't think about ourselves. I have been punished many times in this Parliament. The first time I got my punishment, I wanted to tell you this because it was a very instructive case... do you remember the blind comondo? I'm sure you'll remember. József Balogh, I wouldn't say that the activity of a well-respected Member, who said that his partner had passed through the blind comondo, was injured. And then, of course, it turned out that he wasn't involved, but he was one of those men... men! So, he was one of those people who thought he was trying to solve his frustration by force and projected it on his partner. József Balogh's activity and presence in Parliament from the time it was discovered that I did not think it was desirable, it could not be desirable for the Fidesz fraction. For some time, however, the Fidesz fraction refused to exclude József Balogh. There was a case where, indeed, with my fellow Members, it may be in violation of the dignity of this House, but I think that in order to protect the dignity of millions of Hungarian women, we have organised, organised, and stood there and asked the pro-government representatives to be so good as to exclude József Balogh from the faction and try to persuade him not to be in the Parliament to leave the Parliament and give him his mandate back. Then I was punished by the Speaker of the House, saying that I had seriously violated the House's authority. It is possible, though, once again, that I think it was the basic attitude that seriously violated the House's authority. At the same time, I would like to add that, as a result of this action, the dignity of this House has been improved, because at least József Balogh is out of the Fidesz fraction, or has been disqualified, and we will decide how this happened, but he has not left Parliament. It took a long time for this man to leave Parliament. Such a person, such behavior, is what I believe to be a serious violation of the House's authority. I think it is extremely important what many Members here have mentioned, however, that the Parliament, the House, should fulfil its function, the discussion, the debate, the exchange of opinions on the laws. My fellow Members, we are not sitting here at three o'clock in the morning because we have nothing better to do, but because we believe that taxpayers have sent us into Parliament either individually or on a list, I think that is irrelevant, because Members' rights in this respect do not appear to be separated there, and Mrs Mátrai is absolutely right, the laws apply to everyone. The problem is with practice, Congresswoman, it's with practice. What my fellow opposition Members have basically said here is not even about the need for parliamentary law and the need for certain rules. The problem is that if the pro-government Speaker is on top of the pulpitus, interestingly, he only picks on the opposition representatives, punishing opposition representatives for amounts that are quite amazing, and for which Hungary will lose more and more lawsuits in the Strasbourg court. I consider this issue of authority very important, and I object a little to the fact that in this law, in addition to many other things, you would like it not to be expressed here only if you get the word. There is no parliament in the world, my fellow Members, where opposition or even government representatives would sit silently and listen to each other. Have you ever listened to a British parliament about what's going on? Have you listened to the American House of Representatives or Congress? Can you believe they don't sit there quietly? Okay, that is possible, and I accept and agree with my fellow Member, Mr Hohn Krisztina, that we should do something ethical if we have to. Fine. But we're not gonna sit in Parliament silently, no one's gonna sit. Then the National Assembly will lose their pickle pepper. And if, obviously, I will have a fellow Member who will talk about the predecessors, if they have seen what the predecessors have done in this House, I think this is quite a distinguishing and restrained activity compared to that. As regards the other rules of the law: entry into public institutions and in this regard, because I would link the two, the request for information. I think that going into the public institution just to get someone inside the public institution obviously wasn't done by anyone. Members go to public institutions because they want to meet with the relevant colleague and ask for information, ask for help in the performance of the work of their representatives and, above all, in the exercise of the right of control. I would therefore like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that this is the right to control, and I would like to refer again to Mrs Mátrai, not just the right of the opposition. That's your driver's license, that's your job, and that's your job, because you meet with the members of the government more often than we do to get the government to account for it; to ask the government for information on whether it's true; whether it's true what the opposition representatives have found out, they've learned. [[3.10]] Let me tell you, Congresswoman Demeter has spoken a lot about this, and I am more concerned with the defence of the country, and I would have liked to have seen it a lot, and I would not be such a visiting person as Sándor Fazekas, a visiting minister, but I wanted to see a tool, and this is the Ministry of Defence, HM EI Zrt. bought by business jet. I've written so many letters, I've submitted so many written questions, while the minister, when I went to the ministry once to see the data, and there I was given such a very long series of data, and I reviewed it, asked me to come in and talk to him. I went to see him, and I personally asked him to let me look at this device, and the answer was no. And when I asked him why not, the answer was just that. Fellow Members, believe me, I know what a business jet like this looks like, and I even know what this looks like specifically, but that is not the point. It is not good for a Member of Parliament to find out the information in a different way, by regular means, but in a different way, look at these tools, have information about it. The point would be, and I agree with this in terms of example, is that we can act according to the law, which is in the parliamentary law, namely that a Member of Parliament has the right to see certain things, obviously in advance, the army is subject to special rules, as it is not possible to go in there at any time, although in our time, the truth is that if opposition representatives came, then we were happy to see it. By the way, I'd like to open a parenthesis here on the national case, because believe me, it's possible cooperation. Imagine, and that is why I am sorry that KDNP is not here, because this cooperation is linked to KDNP, and to Mr István Simicskó. When he initiated a review of the voluntary reserve system in the Parliament in 2008, he submitted a parliamentary decision. At the time, I was indeed the Secretary of State of the Ministry, not his minister, not the commanding general, nothing, I was the Secretary of State of the Ministry, but I think it is quite right that this is such an important issue that it should be supported even if it is presented by an opposition representative. And imagine, fellow Members, what happened: the pro-government majority knows that eight years voted in favour of István Simicskó's parliamentary decision. Because it didn't matter if it was filed by an opposition, it didn't matter that it was a national case. Locked in parentheses, I just wanted to say that. So back to providing information: unfortunately, I have very, very bad experience in this regard. Together with my colleague Tamás Harangozó and Vice-President Andrea Varga-Damm, we wrote a letter to the Minister because we wanted to see certain contracts. And not because we don't know what's in it, but because we wanted to see these contracts in one piece, and we obviously didn't know the best details, but we wanted to see them. Instead of getting the answer from anyone, I don't care whether it's Szilárd Németh or Szilárd Németh who can write with me to come in and tell me what you'd like to see, I got an e-mail from a completely unknown e-mail address without a signature saying, "Well, let's just say, what do we really want?" This is not a sign of cooperation, it is not a form, as required by the law, of being able to normally work as a representative. Finally, I would like to say one thing, because relatively few people have spoken about it, that is the task of the Parliamentary Guard. I don't know, you saw in the law that from now on, the Speaker of the House, who is involved in this, will be able to turn me in to the Secretary-General. I'm sorry, it's a law enforcement agency. I don't really like the fact that the Speaker, who is a civilian in this respect, gives instructions to the staff of an armed and police body, but that there will be a secretary-general, who will certainly have no mandate to put him in an awkward position, obviously, and he will take on certain tasks, I think that Sándor Pintér will have a word or two for that. In fact, this cannot be allowed to be controlled by people who have nothing to do with the Members of Parliament. Not to mention, fellow Members, I would like to make this clear, putting our notary fellow Members in a position where they are taking all kinds of measures against us, so, to be honest, I will be very curious about that. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-346	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. In the next 15 minutes' time frame, Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP.
u2019-11-20-347	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Gábor Bányai gave a very nice speech, he made a very nice comment, and I think that if that were the attitude of Fidesz to things, we would obviously not be discussing this bill tonight. But yet I have a word that my fellow Member has repeatedly said, and I would like to say a few things in very specific terms, or at least ask you a question, in case you will feel how much bubble you live and live in a bubble, too, I think, because your speech seemed sincere, but I think you do not see the basic things right. You used the word common standard. What common standard, Congressman? ! What common standard does a bouquet of Fidesz MEPs submit as a house rule? What makes it a common standard? They say the government isn't here today because it has nothing to do with the Parliament's internal affairs. It always has been. Do you remember who submitted the house rule in the two-thirds majority parliament of MSZP-SZDSZ in 94? The faction leaders. Among other things, the leader of the Fidesz faction was a signatory and author of the house rule. And as an example of any country's house rules, it doesn't matter what detailed rules there are or what punishments there are, a party doesn't write house rules in a democratic country, it's called a one-party system. In a democratic country, in a fair country, he doesn't make electoral laws, house rules, or parliamentary laws, nor does he make a party, nor does he make a constitution. And I read today that the Ministry of Antal Rogán responded to the Blikk article that they wanted to re-emerge the electoral law, because obviously the municipal election result hurts. And today, the Ministry of Antal Rogán stated that no electoral law is planned, since it was adopted jointly by the parties. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition.]] It's a pretty powerful bubble, but it has nothing to do with reality. And I want to talk to you about this because that's when you'll understand why the opposition is acting like this. A rule that I will write with you, and I will vote with you, I will observe, and I will enforce it with my fellow factions. A rule you're imposing on me, I'm not gonna follow. And when we were sitting here at this time last year, I was here in that debate, and the debate was completely closed off. The House rules say that such a debate can be closed by a majority of the Members present. Maybe outside of Lajos Kósa, if two Fidesz congressmen were here, maybe none. We didn't have the house rules to close the debate. From now on, the further debate and final vote of that law was also illegal, and I am saying that today. And in this regard, all means had to be used, which of course does not include violence. But if the majority does not comply with our most fundamental rules, what are the means, fellow Members? Tell me the difference between a debate being illegally closed, and this is how it will be illegal to adopt a law between the fact that there may be no debate about it, or that it will be immediately published in the Gazette, which will be written in the Ministry. Basically, there's no legal difference. You can't do that. And, yes, they did the Fundamental Law on their own. I would also like to quietly refer back, yes, to another political climate, when the two-thirds majority, now branded Balliberian, said itself, said that constitutional issues can only be touched by a four-fifth majority. [[3.20]] Because the constitution, like the rules of the house, belongs to everyone or no one. And if you look at the historical examples, these are exactly the situations. And, of course, we're really cute little purring kittens compared to that. The particular vote on handkerchiefs, mentioned today, which was the work of István Tisza, which you, and most of all, worshipped by László Kövér, was about simply deceiving Members in the Parliamentary Hall as a mere pub scene. They cheated them and announced the final vote against house rules. After that, Parliament was dissolved, and the next time it met, the opposition representatives destroyed these beautiful furniture, and then the police and parliamentary guards sent to them were hit and killed in turn. But it also began with the fact that, once again, the leading president in the majority's possession, by means of a rogue method, simply deceiving the parliament of a house amendment which was not intended to be voted by those in Parliament. And this great tradition was continued by Tisza when one of the opposition representatives came to the point of shooting at the pulpit. Yeah, there's the bullet, you can look at it. In the same day, the same man had been fired at protests by the opposition, workers, or even poor and starving small farmers and peasants. As I recall, there were only 17 deaths in Oradea. That's your role model, and that's what this is all about. And it did not start with the opposition coming in, and just like that, l' art pour l' art smashed the room, but it was that even after taking their rights, they started to run the country by force. And, of course, small, but once again, the illegal closure of the slave law and, from then on, the whole adoption of the law in an analogy is the same now. Don't be surprised if the reaction is the same. I think of my cordon-crushing Fidesz colleagues that you wouldn't have used any other means. And if you felt that the existence of that cordon was not legal, that you had gone out and torn it down, then I ask you once again why you wonder that, at the end of the debate of an illegal law, the opposition says that this is no longer the case. The House's authority has been spoken of. How did you protect the authority of this House, and what do you think of the operation of this Parliament, in which you are sitting in a two-thirds majority, when almost the first thing you did in the public media, which spent 80 billion forints a year, was to stop the broadcasts of this Parliament? What authority do you intend to place on the institution that is the main representative of the people's community here, all the very important things that concern citizens, one of the first and most important things you have to do to get rid of this from citizens? Is that what raised the House's authority? Do you think that's gonna make it up to this day? It's not democracy, it's not the decency, or are you ashamed of what you're doing here to show it to the citizens because you're right? Well, then, show me. What are you afraid of? [[László Böröcz: You can watch it now!]] Very funny, fellow Member, very funny indeed. You are a very prepared and very humorous young man, and I wish you a long political career. Returning to the bill and its circumstances: my fellow Members, did you raise the authority of this House when you introduced the name laws with a lump? A village staff meeting has more authority than this Parliament, because you specifically used Parliament here for people's money or careers. Lex Borkai, just to say a name that's been spinning a lot lately. While retired soldiers were deprived of their pensions, the same law was amended for Borkai's sake so that he could fill a very important position personally, which, by the way, was excluded by the law. But there was lex Szapáry here, and we could list at least ten more. Lex Patyi, the positive, and I remember a negative, when the President of the Supreme Court was simply replaced by a law brought in in a hurry, completely illegal and unconstitutionally, in the middle of his unfulfilled cycle. It destroys authority! Well, are you surprised they're going wild in society? Does the citizen sit at home and see that he has elected a parliament that practically acts as a slutty machine? ! [[László Böröcz: This was in your time!]] No, in your time, my fellow Member, there are now named laws! There's no consequence now. But if we are still talking about the past, my fellow Member, because you have started to be a communist here, and you have suggested how an ex-Prime Minister has acquired his wealth. Why don't you tell me how Viktor Orbán's party secretary's dad bought the mine? [[Lajos Korózs: Stolen money.]] From what? Or Butcher Lawrence? Answer my question: How did the father of Viktor Orbán, former party secretary of MSZMP, buy the mine! Marshall's help? Red loan? Or what? And if you can answer that, then lecture anyone else. What did Lőrinc the Butcher make of $2 billion in five years? And then answer me what you're using this Parliament for. Do you think everyone's stupid? I don't think that 1 percent of this man's wealth is what he collected as a fair businessman on a market basis. He is either rich in EU investments or he is rich in budget money. And you are surprised that people have strong opinions about the Hungarian Parliament and its authority? When he's working his ass off and you give him a 400-hour slave bill? You think everyone in this little country doesn't see that? ! The authority of the Parliament could be protected if there were no one-day billings, no namely billings if they did not abuse their power. You want to set an example for people? Give an example by giving the two-thirds majority of Parliament a sitting down with its opposition, and by saying what has been said here is that children, this can't go on, let's sit down and make a rule that everyone can follow. And once again, it is not for nothing that all Parliament and this Parliament have worked for thirty years to bring their own rules by consensus, because it is the only guarantee that everyone will respect it. It is not that I will set up an armed body, and then arm them, and then I will force our Hungarian compatriots, who are in parliamentary guard uniforms, to draw and draw representatives by physical force; or I will expect the same from the notaries promoted to the Capo. How do you think that? ! And how do you think that the way you're going, it can end in a normal, peaceful, decent way? Finally, I say to you, and obviously also to the voters, that I have the feeling that, after October 13th, instead of having some minimal review of why the country is here, of course, but even you, this bunker effect has started permanently. They're going on a road from which we've often said that there's no going back, but if they go this way, there's really no going back. I told my learned colleague, Gergely Gulyás, in the very law where he took the lead speech here in the law on the removal of the President of the Supreme Court, that we should not forget it, and I certainly say it to you, or to you, my young fellow Member, that we will live in this country for long and long decades. It's not four years and eight or even twelve, it's supposed to be here in this country. And with laws like that, you can't do that fair and square. Thank you so much for listening. [[3.30]]
u2019-11-20-348	Thank you, Congressman. In the next 15 minutes' time frame, Mr István Happy, Fidesz. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties: Oh! Finally.]]
u2019-11-20-349	Mr. President. Dear House, I am very pleased that the opposition is so lively. The thing is, ladies and gentlemen, I got up at 5:30. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: We too!]] At 8:00 p.m., it's customary for me to read my son a story; only that you didn't talk about the subject, I should talk about something else. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We didn't assign...]] I could have spent my evening waiting for my family. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] I listened to you with honor, and after dinner I could have read the story again, a beautiful Hungarian folk tale. [[Intervention in the ranks of opposition parties: Why did they put the debate here?]] The problem is, I can see we're gonna be here by 9:00 in the morning. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Not a bad idea!]] I'll tell you honestly, if it weren't for 15 minutes, I would have asked for the floor, and I would have spoken to you by 9:00 a.m. to obscurate you. I can't do that, it's only 15 minutes. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Go ahead. Agnes Kunhalmi: Often 15 minutes. Interview in the lines of the MSZP: There are a lot of 15 minutes.]] I'm sad about it, I'll tell you honestly, but the obstruction you're doing right now is very good, but you know that doesn't make much sense. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes, posterity will see it!]] We'll talk about it completely together. The truth is that my learned fellow Member has told you very well that we have reached a point in the Hungarian Parliament, after which it is time to draw the line. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] When I got in here in 2010, I was sitting next to István Balsai. He said, then, that, well, Parliament's standards have deteriorated a lot. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: More of the Constitutional Court! Zsolt Gréczy: TV fight during the Antall government!]] More than that, I'm afraid. And I think it's about time we draw a line. [[Intervention in the ranks of opposition parties: Do you say so?]] The thing is, you are very proud of what you did in December. Now I'll tell you what you did in December. You were beeping, sirens, yelling in December. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Selfizsek. Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I'd like to tell you, when I got home from here, I didn't hear your siren for three days, and I had to see a doctor. You didn't have the sense that what you're doing is not just an obstruction, but that it might harm other people's health. You know, you can do the obstruction, and you can talk at night like this, because it's okay, I'm free. Look, I'm an agricultural mechanic, and I'm an honest man, but I've worked on the railroad for years, and I'm really good at nights. That's what I'm in for. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] But what you did in December, hurt the health of others, I'm not in it. You practically caused me hearing loss in December. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] And yet I didn't go to court, and I didn't run anywhere else, and my family can take it that sometimes I don't hear the way I've heard it before, because, you know, sirens in a space like this, don't be angry, it does cause hearing loss. (Intercoms in the ranks of opposition parties. ) So, the thing is, the obstruction and opposition protest, I think there's a place for it. The words that you cannot express your opinion... have done nothing but express your opinion for hours. [[Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi: The law has not come into force yet!]] By the way, since 9:00 a.m., they've given their opinions to every law, and that's how it's gonna be, and if this law can be passed by the House, they can still say it. And you know what's shocking? That you fear for your rights, while the same rights will apply to me and to my fellow Members as to you. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Only they won't apply it!]] Yeah, well, maybe I'm not gonna pay the penalty, 'cause let's just say I'm not gonna yell at you, and I'm not gonna use words like you. [[Gergely Harvester: Never! Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties: Ah! You? Never!]] I didn't say I didn't yell at you before. [[Demercation and intervention in opposition ranks.]] But not once in the same tone as you. And the problem for you is, if I call reality real, I can't help it. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What is real? Share it with us.]] The thing is, you guys have proved to me today what I've always known and what a very famous writer described. I'd like to read you a quote, I've got time, 15 minutes, and I would particularly recommend the last sentence for your comments tonight, because that's what you did today. Alexander Solzhenicin:. The more damaging and dangerous type of man than the Communist has not been produced in history. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You gotta be kidding me.]] Their cynicism, insolence, power hunger, unscrupulousness, destructive tendencies, culture and antispirits are unimaginable to any other, normal, or non-communist man. The Communist does not know shame, human dignity, and has no idea what Christian ethics calls conscience. The communist disfigured soul! [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We see you!]] A healthy European can't be a communist! There is no lie that requires a thick skin that a communist would not say without blinking his eyes if it was in the interest of the movement or the personal welfare of the comrades. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What a vision Solzhenicin had!]] Well, that's exactly what you did here in Parliament today. You have been trying to prove by continuing lies that any right you have is being violated, apart from the need to behave culturally in Parliament. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: As well as Mr. Happy!]] Please note that you keep talking about some kind of disadvantage for us, and that's a lie. The same rights will apply to you as to us, and if we yell at you and speak as we do, we will be punished by the Speaker of the House as we do to you. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] So I would like to ask you to adopt this law. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No!]] And let's keep it to ourselves. Neither will you, nor will we; neither will you, nor will we. If you do, you'll take your punishment. That's all. And then the dignity of this House will be restored to its old light. I suggest this to you, because the fact is that what I have read during my comment you have constantly demonstrated, since you have not allowed me to go through with it, but yelled. I propose that the next few hours be used to give their opinion, calmly, and then vote for the law, and that we all maintain the dignity of this House, so that no one has to pay a penalty after the adoption of the law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-350	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy for two minutes, DK.
u2019-11-20-351	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That's a communism you've got to stop talking about. [[Interjection in the ranks of the MSZP: Crap!]] I was not the KIS Secretary of Teleki Blanka High School, but Viktor Orbán. I didn't work in the background institution of MSZMP, László Kövér did. I wasn't the vice president of the Patriot People's Front, I was Stumpf István. Not my friend Gyula Thürmer, but yours. Zsigmond Járai, János Martonyi, were all members of the MSZMP, and they were already working in the German government, in the last pro-state government. Sándor Pintér was an MSZMP member, a police general before the change of regime. But I can continue the line with your press background: Ottó Gajdics, young guard; András Bencsik, your great Democrat, senior colleague of the section of the People's Freedom Party; István Stefka was the dreaded party figure of Kossuth's Radio in the eighties, who, when he entered the room, was silent, because they knew that everyone would know in five minutes; Katalin Kondor, star host of the 80s. So don't you communists, stop it, for God's sake, really! I don't know what you're trying to do. In your membership, there are a lot more MSZMP members among your representatives than on this side. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: That is not true.]] Yeah, it's a mathematical fact. And when they're communists, I resent that, because my father was imprisoned after 56 and József Antall and Árpád Göncz jointly decorated and rehabilitated him in 1990. He was in prison with the Imre Mécs. [[3.40]] Don't embarrass me. It's the Communists who do the same behavior you do. Fidesz is a Communist party. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai, applause: That's right!]]
u2019-11-20-352	Thank you. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is entitled to the floor for two minutes.
u2019-11-20-353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Happy Congressman, do you know why we're still here at 3:45 this morning? The lead speakership of this law went down this morning. You wanted us to sit here at night and at dawn, because you didn't even allow us to start arguing as Members after the lead speaker, like the other laws. I'm sorry, don't be so coy and play innocent here like you don't know they did it on purpose so someone doesn't see it at night. And the press that's been banned from this place for years, the public media won't let you see it by accident. Congressman, be here with us, if only the entire Fidesz fraction would be sitting here. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: And KDNP!]] But I'm telling you, you did this on purpose to make this happen. Just like he was in the slave law on purpose to be put in overnight so that no one would notice what was going to happen that night, or even that we were in here arguing. And that, you know, I especially like it when you say, "Oh, my God, you're up at 5:00 and your little boy's supposed to tell the story now." [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I wonder how many times you say it.]] Even though everyone who's here is making sacrifices. But to add, it's your job, and it's ours. It'd be the same for the others who aren't here right now. It would also be the government's job to make sure that we Members do not sit here alone, but to finally hear what the government has to say about this. It's always the case that the laws are being brought here, and then the government's representatives are not here, or you're not here. Thank God you've been ordered to sit here, unlike the debate of the slave law, when Lajos Kósa suffered here all night. But he's been in a lot of pain. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] But I'll add, at least don't stand up and tell me here as a big sacrifice that we have to be here now. Well, we'll be here. Maybe we'll be here till tomorrow night. That's what we do, Congressman, that's why we get paid, that's how we get paid.
u2019-11-20-354	Thank you very much. Mr László Böröcz has the floor for two minutes.
u2019-11-20-355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman Bango, why are you standing up if you're asking for it, if you're... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Sorry, Congresswoman Bangón, why didn't you stand up and... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, that's her name! It's not that hard to remember.]] Why did you stand up if you object [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Why did you get up? What are you talking about?]] Mr. Happy Congressman has done this. Anyway, there are only two things I'd like to say in these two minutes. One is that I have so much courage to remember that it is the Communists who, by the way, are generally concerned about democracy, and so much more. [[Gergely Arató: That's what the Communists are famous for!]] that the liberal, that supposedly liberal, liberals are called diplomat communists... I'm just saying that's what's going on. You know yourselves in this, it's not my fault. You were outraged that I made such a statement. It was Zsolt Gréczy who practically Fidesz [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Don't you mind the Nazis?]] He's been communicating. You guys have been Nazis and fascists for the last 20 years. I'm sorry. Then decide now, by the way, whether the Fidest is Nazi or Communist. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Both of them!]] 'Cause we can't do it together. Plus, you have a history with the state party, so we need to take you back from this case a little bit. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Me? What connects me to MSZMP?]] And the other is that I understand that everyone has a rightful, wrongful temper during debates. Obviously, you feel that when you speak, and we interrupt, because obviously this happens. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Ah, no!]] Then it's the most outrageous thing in the world, because no one's gonna get in your way. But believe me, [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: No, that's not true!]] Believe me. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We just don't like bad words.]] They're always complaining about that. Believe me, we feel the same way. So let us try to understand the attitude of the other party. The same two stories: you yell in and say when you're told why they won't speak to us. By the way, Congressman Latorcai, Mr Lezsák, also Mr President, has repeatedly called on the Fidesz Members. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-356	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2019-11-20-357	I must say, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members, quarter to four. If Mr. Happy doesn't speak, I'll fall asleep. Now I have my limitations, I'm not ashamed, I admit it. I just hit rock bottom, and I'm just waiting for the adrenaline to come back somehow. So, my fellow Member Böröcz, the communism is so embarrassing. I prefer you. You're worth something else, believe me. It's embarrassing to do this. Listen. I was born in 82 and lekommunistase. Besides, he also communicates with József Pálinkás, because he is considered a jumper on the right. Juncker, who's on the right, was also a communist. They're all communists or sometimes migrant if you don't agree with someone. It's a communication trick, just like it's a trick... [[János Böröcz intervenes.]] But we didn't. When, by the way, did I ever Nazi you? Then I'll tell you, otherwise, I'll give you the historical examples, because now I'll have time, for example, to tell you, between the two world wars, what it was like to be a parliamentarian and otherwise a fascist world. You're in favour of this. The Fundamental Law that's in this one, he pressed a button. Should I tell you now that he's a Nazi? Latent Nazi? Or is it a half-fascist baby? You want me to say things like that? ! [[Gergely Harvesto: By no means say such things.]] Well, I wouldn't take it personally, because I don't think it is, by the way. I think of you as an authoritarian authoritarian politician who supported this system. [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] So much for communism, and it's really embarrassing. By the way, since the change of regime, Fidesz has been doing this, and the left-wingers have been on the government despite it. You don't have to suck it up, you don't have to deal with it. Nevertheless, they should still be communists, and we will be on government until 22:00. The vote on handkerchiefs has already been discussed, honourable Members. I would like to quote a few headlines, because Fidesz has always shown great interest in the past, especially in the period of the two world wars, the Horthy system, as its predecessor, as well as its model and example. The years of that regime have been statutory, so don't try to deny it. Well, I don't know what to think, some congressmen deny it, and some people bring flowers. From that period I collected a title or two of Népszava's titles on what happened 95 years ago, just like in November, in Parliament. Let me just give you a few headlines to see if we can recognize it, dear colleagues, so that the fellow Members can find out what is happening today. He says: November 15, 1924: what disciplinary measures are the Bethlens planning against the Members? November 28th, 1924: they had armed guards drag socialist representatives out of the National Assembly. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: History repeats!]] We're not that far away, I feel. [[Intervention from the opposition benches: There is no new under the sun!]] On 2 December 24, the united opposition withdrew from the parliament of violence. Friends, anything else can come in here. [[Defiance from the opposition benches.]] The next December 2nd, he says 14 Social Democrats were expelled from the National Assembly for 10 and 25 days. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Here we go!]] Now, please, there's something in here that says this law, you just have to turn it up. Fat didn't deny this sample for a minute. The houseguard was also created in the same way, and even acknowledged that the current parliamentary proportions also reflect the world. Finally, 3 December: the opposition refuses to assist the Bethlen dictatorship, which has been implanted in the National Assembly, who is sorely hurt by the united action of representatives of work and democratic citizenship. Please, there's a solution. You, as you did then, are and have reason to be afraid of this united action. Please, the Horthy era was an authoritarian, limited period of parliamentarism. Although there was a parliament in Hungary between the two world wars, there was a right- and left-wing opposition, some elements of the system were designed in such a way that there was no realistic chance of political forces offering an alternative to a change of government. One of the foundations of the Horthy system was that grassroots movements and parties threaten their system, whose activities should be kept under constant restriction. The otherwise well-prepared state apparatus and administration have been used to prevent this and, on the other hand, to limit grassroots mass movements. [[3.50]] Do you remember, fellow Members, the civil law? Remember the assembly... listen, because at least now they're learning something. Did I say assembly law to Mr. President at the time because he's a smart man to limit the right to assembly? This is a very important thing, by the way, because they're doing the same thing. Look familiar, by the way? Bethlen said then that, unlike Britain, because now Mr Hende referred to Great Britain to impose sanctions, Bethlen said that unlike Britain, there is no possible parliamentary change in Hungary. The opposition can criticize, with this law, which you have just brought here, they also want to put an end to this, but they can never, ever, ever get to power if the price of this is to change the electoral law, and Horthy has limited the free choice in the same proportion as you have now, by various means: zoning, and, among other things, parliamentary representation. Bethlen began to marginalise the opposition, of course, only after receiving the loan from the predecessor of the United Nations, from the then League of Nations, the West granted Hungary the loan until the loan had been made, relatively tolerated the work of the Liberals and Social Democrats as the loan had arrived, as the West basically said, that he was the chief leader here, because unfortunately, you have now built up your dictatorship from EU money, from European Union sources, you have not new under the sun, at the moment you started the hard house changes in Bethlen, the point of which was that the opposition was fully marginalized, despite the boycott of opposition, you have constantly tightened the house rules, and adopted electoral laws restricting voting rights. Here we are now, you are mentioning the institution of registration again, after October 13, you are wondering how to change the electoral law so that the opposition can't get on the same list as God. This is what they want to achieve, and they prevented the victorious democratic alliance from taking control of the capital, and now the parallel is to strangle the Republican opposition by tightening the municipal law. They wanted to ensure that the political transition economy could not be achieved, that their inseparability was ensured by administrative means, and that is what is happening today. And please, this is no longer the power of invincibility that we see here from you, this has been said by my fellow Members, but is motivated by fear of being redeemed. And please, about authority, just that I've been taught that it must be earned, and it cannot be demanded. If someone can't do that, they'll be sent away by voters sooner or later. This is a black day, unfortunately, my friends, for democracy and parliamentarism. Respect is spoken of by religious fervourers without morality, and this, I ask, is not only hypocritical but also extremely dangerous to our precious nation. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-358	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Csaba Nagy, MEP Fidesz, in a 15-minute timeframe.
u2019-11-20-359	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There are a lot of arguments, of which I must say that you hear a lot of nonsense and I cannot say otherwise, and I hope that no one here is offended by the restriction of the public and the restriction of democratic opposition rights on everything else. I just pulled out the official document that was made here in the House. This is the list of speakers registered in advance, and I see on this document that from 10.30 a.m. on the bill amending certain laws concerning the functioning of Parliament and the legal status of Members, as well as the 10/2014 on certain house regulations. The Parliament discussed a proposal for a decision amending the parliamentary decision of 24 February 2007 at the start of a joint general debate on the subject of the T/8044 and H/8042 respectively. under the number below. I said this because if someone is looking at the Hungarian Parliament's meeting anywhere in the world on the Internet, either in a car or on a train or on a plane or at home, because they can do this on the Internet, wherever I say it once more in the world and at any time, and they can look back, then they will see that opposition representatives have been able to express their views on this proposal for a resolution or on the bill, together with seven Members in 180 minutes. The pro-government representatives, Fidesz-KDNP, could talk to two representatives in 60 minutes, and the minority advocate could even speak to this decision. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That was the lead speaker!]] And now they're yelling, of course, because they can't stand the fact that you're giving your opinion. I think that this is typical of you, and perhaps this has contributed to the fact that we had to submit this proposal for a resolution to Parliament, because I think it is important to tell you that there are traditions here in this Parliament and there are customary rights that, let's say, should be observed. And I also think that, as a democracy now, and as a Democrat, I say that the current legislation also allows you to make sound arguments at any time, anywhere, at any forum, to express your views so that you will not be affected by any retortion. So the speeches that say that democracy is being violated here, I think that they simply do not stand up, that is, they are not true. On the whole, today, you have three times as much time as the members of the Fidesz-KDNP faction. In addition, it can be done anywhere in the world via the Internet through the XXI. You've seen it in the first century. And I also think that the rights will not be violated, because these recordings can be viewed, viewed, replayed, searched in different files, and even read in printed form. So I think that in this respect the public is complete, and I think that today's social media [[Dr. László György Lukács: Social media?]] make disputes in this respect extremely open. So I don't really understand what criticisms are being made in this regard. I think that what you're saying is at the border of demagogy, perhaps even entering this issue. And if I were to say something else, it is that I think that there is a place for debate in Parliament, that there is a place for debate within the framework, and that if you felt these civil values were your own, then you might achieve a greater purpose than you do now. What I would ask of you is that when you have calmed down and rested and have a printed version of the documents from which you can monitor these debates, you will draw up a list of comments, insults to the Members who have sat here. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We didn't insult you, we just wanted to tell you...]] Once again, I would like to say that you should read back the speeches, the opposition speeches, and write down these adjectives, and draw up those adjectives, stress what people do in the pub, in the bar debates, to say to each other. The use of words is shocking, the drafting system in which you have tried to convince us of anything. I can't do this! By disrespecting each other by not giving our opinions fair and square, by not trying to convince each other, this is a political circus that's going on here. It doesn't make any sense. And once again, I would like to say that the biggest responsibility for the fact that this proposal for a resolution had to be tabled here is the debate culture that you do not have. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-20-360	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Gergely Arató, MEP DK, will speak again in a 15-minute time frame.
u2019-11-20-361	Don't be jealous, Congressman Csárdi, it'll come to you sooner or later. Mr President, Dear House, It was a wonderful comment, and let me start with this. [[Csaba Nagy: Thank you.]] You're welcome. Even if I felt some logical contradiction in the fact that Mr President first said that the debate should be here, and how important it is that the opposition can express its views in this and that we should be grateful for it. And then he said it was a political circus. So we can comment, but your opinion on this is extremely bad that we also have this right. [[Csaba Nagy: No, I didn't say that!]] At the same time, I must say that, in addition to all this, this was a comment that we have listened to with our patience here, at the most, and we do not agree with it. [[4.00]] I don't know, I've just noticed this debate tonight as a sort of research social scientist, and it was very interesting to note the connection between the style and temperature of the opposition yellings and what to say. During the speech of Congressman Bányai, I do not know that he observed, let alone no loud shouting, but even a very quiet speech. At the same time... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Because he didn't say that!]] Because he did not say such things, honourable Members, because he did not abuse the opposition, he did not speak out, he was not a communist, but he gave a calm professional opinion. There are many of us here on the opposition side, who are happy to have a substantive professional or political debate, even a lively debate, if we can, if we can, if we can, if we can, by the rules, and if we are talking about things and in ways that are actually relevant and that can be exchanged. And it is no coincidence that if you are here, Mr Böröcz or Mr Happy Member, you have been followed by more excitement [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] But it is you, my fellow Members, who are not making professional arguments, who are not making political arguments, but who are simply desecrating the opposition. That's what you can afford, but don't be surprised if there's some sort of definite opposition. I will not stand by, given that the Member and, obviously, I do not blame the Member, because he is so fortunate that he did not live in a time when he had to learn things about communism at school, but the misconception that the Communists were always concerned about democracy, I would like to remove it. That is not the case, honourable Member. The Communists were capable of many kinds of depravity, but the tormenting concern for democracy was not one of them. In particular, Lenin, who is a fairly credible communist, said that democracy is also a form of state that must disappear, and although he was a diploma without a doubt, I would not call him liberal, not even because he acted in a rather determined manner against those who, for example, had a different view of democracy than he, whether they were social democrats, whether they were popular revolutionaries or liberals. So, my honourable fellow Member, of course I do not want to limit what you are talking about, but I think it is right that if you do this in the proper knowledge of the subject and not for the sake of a funny saying that you think we will find it amusing, or that your followers will find it a strong argument, do not move away from the point of view. He says, Mr Happy, that he would rather have read his children a story at home tonight. I'm afraid mine isn't the age to read him a story, but I'd rather have talked to him tonight. There is only one difference between us, Congressman, and that is an important difference: you voted for the agenda on which we are discussing now. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: True! That's right!]] And I didn't vote for it. [[Delightfulness and applause in the ranks of the opposition.]] There is this small difference, and I am not bringing it here because of personalism, but in order to draw attention to a very important fact: the majority of us at the moment have much greater opportunity to shape the functioning of Parliament and its style of speech, to shape in some way how this Parliament works. If you have serious concerns about the functioning of Parliament, then I suggest that you first of all consider how you can live with your majority position in such a way that, by the way, this will create the opportunity for a sensible and calm debate, I mentioned this morning, for example, that it does not negotiate 37 laws in Parliament one week. And I'm sorry, but it wasn't the opposition that did this, we didn't ask to discuss the parliamentary bill one day, the reorganization of justice, vocational training and transportation, and I don't even know what the rest of it was today. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] And science and grief know what, and let's not talk about fish farming. [[Demercation and intervention from the opposition.]] So, I have to tell you... [[Intervention from the opposition: Zrinyi-year!]] And the year Zrinyi, we didn't ask for it, that's what you gave us. This obviously does not make it easy for the debate. She says that the opposition here sometimes tries to draw attention to itself with spectacular actions, but there is a reason for this; this is because you have basically eliminated the publicity of Parliament. Because I understand what the congressman says about looking at it on the Internet and looking at it, but it's not a common custom today. At the same time, television broadcasting was terminated, which had an otherwise serious viewing camp, which signaled back to you before 2010, and to us, what it saw in Parliament, and created relations in the public media, which was primarily empowered and obliged to communicate this type of news and information, where opposition opinions do not appear. I'm sorry, I don't usually see witty but brief parliamentary opposition posts on a one-minute newscast, but I do have all sorts of important information about what your propaganda says is important and what your work is. Speaking of communist times, it reminds me wonderfully of the TV newscasts of the '80s, with the exception that it is not Károly Grósz, but Minister Szijjártó who is inaugurating, and there are not evil imperialists, but evil György Soros, and it is the migrants that you should be afraid of, and not the... I don't know who you were afraid of then. At that time, we had to be as much less afraid of pests and saboteurs as we are of migrants in the '50s. But, let's face it... [[A statement from the opposition: The capitalist!]] The same, the capitalists are evil, and they're evil, so there's no difference in that. So, to get back to this thing: what I would like to say is that the opposition is forced to use sometimes loud instruments, for example, not always meeting with my personal taste, because it doesn't get much access to the civilized means, the kind of parliamentary publicity that is the basis for a calm debate. Several times it was referred to not restricting the rights of its representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I do. Because there is no debate between us that the right of Members to freely enter any public institution cannot be done with this. You have to put the two 98s side by side. § of the old and the new law, it's in one and it's not in the other. Then there is further confusion that Vice President Hende says that it was already illegal for Members to go in if it was illegal, then why do we have to change the law now so they can't go in? [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] But however this thing is, the thing is, you're going to revoke an existing right here. It may be a question of need or not, but don't deny it. Moreover, this right is being abolished, and this is obviously not a coincidence, when the opposition is increasingly forced to use this right, because many of my fellow Members have spoken about it, I do not want to continue because the public authorities, including members of the government, do not comply with their obligations under the house rules and the Fundamental Law. The Prime Minister says, "Merry Christmas." I don't know if he's happy with it, but for example, I haven't received an answer from the Ministry of Finance on three occasions to the relatively simple question of whether or not István Tiborcz's brother worked at the NAV in IT procurements. It's not a complicated question. I think that the list of employees of a public institution is not a secret personal or sensitive personal data, but they did not answer: bebe, we do not say it because it is personal data, but simply do not answer the question. Obviously, in such a situation, on-the-spot checks will become more important, and it will obviously become more important for Members to be able to access these sites, and you want to limit this right. Let me tell you one more thing. We look back before 2010, Mr Zoltán Kovács, who is the great master of this, is not here right now, he still has such residual grievances, and I am sure it was not easy to be opposition before 2010 either, and I accept that. However, the rules of the parliamentary debate were quite different, there were very different kinds of answers to parliamentary questions, and then I was the State Secretary who could remember those who were sitting here, and we had serious debates here, and we tried to give a meaningful answer. The publicity of Parliament's work and the publicity of the opposition were quite different. [[4.10]] It is not really fair to compare the two, and once again to say that the majority created these conditions and not the opposition. The majority created conditions that made meaningful parliamentary professional work significantly difficult. I can say, and I sincerely believe that those who spoke to him in this spirit are serious, my fellow Members, to restore the authority of Parliament, to bring the sensible debate back to Parliament, to make less circuses, less rudeness in this Parliament, then there is a way. Retract this bill because it is one-sided that rules cannot be imposed on it, and the majority of Parliament cannot force the minority to do so. It doesn't work that way, it's a dictatorship. This isn't going to be peace, it's not going to be a meaningful dialogue. On the contrary, this will be a protest, a resistance. This is also a way, it may be your political goal. But if you honestly think that's not the goal, but the goal... Congressman Bányai said that we should discuss these things. Then let's discuss, withdraw this bill, and start working together on the reform of house rules and parliamentary law. We are open to this democratic coalition. We also believe that this is a bad house rule and a bad parliamentary law in its current state. Let us establish a house rule that will ensure functionality, by the way, and ensure that the laws behind which the majority are present are passed, but also ensure that the opposition has the rights to express his opinion in a meaningful debate and in public, so that he can argue in favour of his own ideas, so that he has the chance to have at least a substantive debate about his proposals. This is one of the biggest violations of the opposition that our proposals are not being beaten up in a debate, but are not being allowed to be discussed. This has happened to all opposition proposals practically in recent years. Let's change the rules and find rules together. Then I will believe that the authority of Parliament is really important to you, the calm debate, it is really important to you that we take care of the country's affairs, as it should otherwise be done in a worthy manner. But as long as it doesn't happen that way, it's a dictatorship to introduce a parliamentary bill and a house amendment, it's a crooked text. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-20-362	Thank you, Congressman. In the next 15 minutes, Antal Csárdi, LMP. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The sun has risen!]]
u2019-11-20-363	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is, my fellow members of the Government, that you are slipping, exaggerating, and how should I put this? distorting reality. They are accusing us, opposition representatives, for example, of not coming to work. I was thinking that we should look at how many meetings the Committee on Budgets has missed in just one year in which we are now, especially because of the absence of the MPs. 21 November 2018 Information on compliance with the debt rule and developments in inflation. Invited by Mihály Varga Minister of Finance. The majority of the government didn't come to this meeting. The same was the case on 22 January 2019. Why didn't the pensions from the Hungarian Treasury arrive at the statutory deadline? Invited guests: Minister of Finance Mihály Varga, Prof. Dr. József Mészáros, President of the Hungarian Treasury. The following meeting shall be held on 13 February 2019. Information on the experience of introducing a child care fee, its budgetary impact. Invited: Attila Fülöp State Secretary for Social Affairs and Social Catch-up. The Fidesz majority didn't come this way either. Sorry, we're already on March 18th this year. Information on certain issues related to the implementation of government decisions. The Fidesz majority did not come to this meeting either, and the next meeting, which we wanted to convene on 8 May 2019. Information on the calculation of the pension correction planned for 2020. Invited by Mihály Varga Minister of Finance. However, on 11 June 2019, the bill amending certain tax laws and other related laws, T/6351. No 32 and decision on the conduct of a detailed discussion in accordance with Article 32 TEU. According to paragraph 2 of Section 2, the majority in favour of the government did not come here either. It is true that this was discussed later by the Economic Committee. There are still eight budget committee meetings to which you, my fellow Members, and now my happy fellow Member, who is a member of the Committee on Budgets, have come in. [[Anita Kőrösi, Vice President of Potocsány!]] But no, I'm sorry, he's out of the gym, now he's back in the gym. [[Happy István: I was here all along!]] I think that you, as vice-president of the Committee on Budgets, should know precisely that this was the case. And after that, you say that the opposition representatives are not working. What I see is that government representatives don't work. I looked at the stats for a second. In this term, not this year, Mrs Mátrai has three speeches, and she has submitted four proposals to the House. I think that's what you can say, "many or few." Let us look at the performance of my colleague, Mr Korózs, compared to this. [[Lajos Korózs: So is the neighbor! Defiance.]] There you go. So 263 individual proposals were tabled during this term, and 26 non-autonomous motions, and 129 different debates were discussed by the Parliament. I do not know how much my fellow Members have perceived the difference. It is worth seeing, for example, how my fellow Member István Happy performed in the same comparison. István Szorgos is the rightful owner of two individual motions in this cycle, and 18 times today's performance has not been included in the discussion. Compared to this, I am a free-chosen opposition representative, so I do not say this, sorry, I opened the sides of my fellow Member Varju by accident: so 110 individual proposals feel the difference, Happy fellow Member? , 13 non-autonomous motions and 130 speeches. Where is this compared to the performance that my happy fellow Member has performed? ! [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Defiance.]] I think there's truth in this from the right, from the left, from all sides. But here, for example, is my fellow Member, Mr Csenger-Zalán, who has tabled a separate and non-autonomous motion in this term. [[Lajos Korózs: Could be a mistake.]] and spoke to Parliament on about eight occasions. Of course, compared to that, you can say from the other side that we're not working. Then, in comparison to this, not to say that I am too biased against myself, I am the originator of 113 separate motions, 392 non-autonomous motions, and 120 times I have asked and received the floor in this House. Compared to this, when your lead speaker, your group leader, tells me that the representatives of opposition parties are not working, what should I call it? Lies? A partial distortion of the truth? The governing party doesn't open up all the details of the truth. [[4.20]] I think that is why there will be no agreement, and therefore there will be no consensus in this law, because their justification is a liar, their justification is based on a slippage, and their reasoning has made exaggerated arguments and exaggerated findings. The purpose of this bill before us is not to agree here. You have two thirds, and your arrogance of power does not require a minimum of the consensual state that one of our fellow Members has spoken of. But, speaking of which, when the detailed debate started this afternoon, not the speaker speeches, 12 people from the pro-government side were here in the debate. This is about 9 percent of the 133-man pro-government faction. Well, of course, in good faith and with due respect, I believe perfectly that the rest of you are not here because of the 91 percent of public service duties, only someone should tell me at 4:00 a.m. at 20 minutes a.m. what kind of urgent public service can be carried out. [[Defiance.]] 'Cause I'm really interested in that. I would also like to carry out such an urgent public task, and I think it is unfair that the governing party has such knowledge and does not share it with us. Let us be honest, fellow Members, this does not show that opposition parties and political representatives are lazy. Looks like it to me. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We are too hardworking.]] That you're lazy. They're lazy to argue, lazy to represent their own voters, lazy to face other opinions and opinions that are different from yours. It's a shame, and it's the death of democracy! We are outraged, and we say the same sentences over and over again because we have encountered this practice day by day, for my part since 2018. I was lucky, because I wasn't there when my fellow Member Hende tried to get his audience to treason in a choir, and I don't think that's fair either. Just as it is neither fair nor glorious that you have represented yourself in this debate with 12 people. Of course, it's been a little short since then, I understand, it's getting late. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Koran!]] And then slowly... I'm sorry, it's early, and you can feel the inner urge to perform a public duty that cannot be delayed, and I think it's right that there is an urgent public task, and I have it. I am the elected parliamentary representative of downtown, so it is not just in the House, and it is not just in the context of legislation. However, may I ask you, my fellow members of the Government, to tell me what an urgent public task can be done after midnight. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-11-20-364	Thank you, Congressman. In the next 15 minutes, Mrs Anett Bősz has the floor.
u2019-11-20-365	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is always a great honor to speak after a fellow Member of the LMP, because as we get used to it, it is very difficult. I prepared a less cheerful speech because what I meant was that restoring the dignity of this House is one of the primary objectives of this legislative proposal. I would really like to ask you a question, because I have noticed that here in this House, when I am talking about, for example, the principles of equal dignity and equal treatment, we do not understand each other, although I think I can speak in a way that I can put it in a way that makes my position clear. They didn't even argue with me on such matters. If I understand you correctly, I would like to restore the dignity of this House, but I would like to ask you how you plan, for example, to restore dignity in hospitals, in hospitals where mold is slowly making the staff sick, not just the patient. For example, does it plan to restore dignity in educational institutions, in educational institutions where, for example, our Roma countrymen, who are already lost in inherited poverty, are forced to learn in segregation conditions created and constantly increasing after 2010? I would like to ask you if you are planning something, for example, to reduce obstetric violence, because the dignity and rights of both the parent woman and the child that is currently being born are significantly affected here. I would like to ask, for example, how, if dignity is important to you, the total lack of accessibility affects your approach to dignity. In this case, however, I thought I would discover some position on the part of the pro-government fellow Members or on the part of your fellow parties when we listened to Tamás Deutsch say that paralympics deserve half the money; I suppose, on the basis that he is half the man. I am very pleased that these not entirely rhetorical questions can be answered by my fellow members of the Government. Then I heard here during the yellings that they argued that you would be subject to the same rules as us. Ladies and gentlemen, you may not mind the dictatorship, but we do, which is why we are sitting here. So you may not be disturbed by the deterioration of the law, perhaps you do not want to exercise your powers of control, for example, as Members of Parliament, but we do, and we believe that we are here with you in this morning's hour to convince you or at least the public that what you are about to do is squandering. The thing is, you are now forming a rubber rule that we know what the consequences of the NER are, and that is arbitrary application. I will give you an example of the arbitrary application of the current house rule, and I think that this position will be a little more understandable. When our fellow Member Hadházy held up this tablet, I think he was rightly fined, and the punishment he paid was even higher than 300 thousand forints. Those fellow Members, by the way, your fellow parties who went there and used physical violence against Ákos Hadházy, received a fine of HUF 50,000 each. Where's the truth? ! I think that we should not start waving the Hungarian flag in this situation, so they could have waited for the service of the hall, for example. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] Press the button, my fellow Member, and feel free to respond. I can wait to yell at you, but I can still react. I can put it on speakerphone, for example, if you shout it again, I would be happy to do it for you, my dear fellow Fidesz. If I don't, I'm going to continue this speech, okay? [[Csaba Nagy: No, not good.]] So what I would like to say is that you are actually making an amazing mistake, and you are making this mistake because the opposition has done its job well here in Parliament. They fear that if these processes continue, the results of which were seen on October 13th... I think it was a pretty clear consequence of the past nine and a half years, which they were able to realise on October 13th in several cities, cities with county rights, Budapest, in the districts of Budapest, let me stop categorizing. A significant proportion of voters now live in opposition-led cities and settlements, and finally, the opposition can show that the incompetence you emphasize, malice and spite you don't want to be able to drive it well and you can't lead it well. You are afraid that this dual effect, the fact that the opposition in Parliament is, by the way, likable to the opposition electorate, and, by the way, you may live in settlements where there is now an opposition mayor, do not give to the majority of God's opposition bodies, can lead you to your government being replaced in 2022. I understand that this scares you, and I understand that in situations like this, you're in a lot of trouble. [[4.30]] But I do not know that, given the fact that we have been sitting on the European Union's bench of shame since 2010, what is not understandable is that we should at least remain among the relatively civilised Member States. Breaking the rule of law and the continuing breakdown of the democratic institutional system will not help you to stay in Europe's mainstream. I understand that Viktor Orbán played to strengthen the European extreme right, and then, climbing on that train, you will be able to find allies among Europeans, but this did not work. So your logical direction at the moment would not be to proceed further in the process of violating the rule of law and to opt out of the civilised European party families or their party families. Right now, there's absolutely no chance that anyone on the continent will be able to accept you, except for the extreme right-wings, who may, of course, matter to you. They wouldn't matter to me if we wanted to keep this country normal. I believe this is an implied demonstration that they have no intention of doing so at all. I also think that my fellow Member, Bányai, argued that the point here is that all sides should think about it, because all age groups, all social groups, are somehow experiencing current public life processes and current public status. But I would like to draw your attention to the point where you argue that the current opposition has gone up to the wall, behaves uncultured, mumbo-jumbo or anything like that, when the siege of the TV headquarters took place here in Freedom Square, the torching of cars, the throwing of policemen with square stones, serious assaults and I could tell you that [[There are constant interruptions in the benches of Fidesz.]] , moving your political community to Kossuth Square, which forced the entire park to be replaced, the tents among which there was an incendiary bomb in one of the activist's socks... I quote contemporary press organs, honourable fellow Members. We are both very young, but as my fellow Member Bányai has just said, public relations affect all ages, and that is why we have a responsibility not to allow our own political community to be extremist. You have a responsibility in this, too, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the events of 2006 do not give your fellow Members the right at all to claim that the current opposition has gone up to the wall. Think about the guy who started a car next to the TV station, the guy who threw square stones at me. [[There's a riot in the benches of Fidesz.]] It was your political community. It was your political community! It's so simple, you don't have to move in here with tents, you don't have to burn the grass with your urine! That is what happened, honourable Members, when you were in opposition. So if you're saying that here are some loud words, some whistling, don't give up, God, the night at the MTVA headquarters, living, self-eating, going up to the wall, I'm asking you to think about what happened in 2006 and that with the password that home cannot be in opposition, [[Constant noise in the benches of Fidesz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have taken this society and have taken it in the direction of fighting between Hungary and Hungary in various public affairs. You do not seek national cooperation! You want to work with one political community, that's your own. As has already been referred to by my fellow Members who have governed this country, it is indeed the majority who have the responsibility to maintain democratic institutions, the standards of the rule of law. This is what you have constantly broken down after 2010 and that is what has led to the continuing deterioration of the dignity of millions within your system in this country. And in the midst of these processes, you are undermining the rights of Members on the grounds of the dignity of this House. So, what's going on is quite an insufferable insolence, and I really think they're simply doing nothing but bringing your social perspective into this Chamber. Because I too would very much like to agree with my colleague from Banya, and I would say that yes, we must make gestures on both sides. Believe me, fellow Member, I've tried. The thing is, I hit walls. [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] Yes, because you are practically banned from making any kind of deal with the opposition. Quite simply, your governance is about shutting themselves down, giving certain groups unlimited rights, and making other groups prefer their rights withdrawn. It does not work differently in this House than it does in Hungary as a whole. And I also think that this will not happen now, in this parliamentary term. It will strike back in the next decades, because look at the 600 thousand Hungarians who voted with their feet. They may not have formulated this for themselves, but they practically sensed that they were looking for something that had long since been lost from this country: tolerance culture, equality of rights, equal dignity and equal treatment. These are the things that I would rightly ask for the dignity of this House on anyone. The creation of this monster under the heading of a system of national cooperation that you created is a disgrace to you! How we object to this is what I think is our pride and our responsibility, because it is a historical responsibility that right now... [[To intervene:]] Yeah, you're just trying to argue with a fellow Member who's not in the room right now, and I'm a Member who has the floor right now. Feel free to press the button, and then you can respond to what I've raised. Once again, and with this I conclude my thoughts: we have a historical responsibility to restore the rule of law standards, to restore the democratic institutional system, and, yes, this must not be done by starting from the Constitutional Court through the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, by bringing all kinds of institutions under the control of the government, which could still hold in this society the impression that there is a rule of law. No, the rule of law doesn't work here. It is no coincidence that the Hungarian Prime Minister and the Hungarian government will receive a series of criticisms. It was just your man who, on several occasions, separated from the Hungarian Prime Minister in Brussels recently. I think that this would be the point for me when I think about the majority of the government, although, on the basis of my fellow Member Bányai's speech, I might think that the submission of the law is the point where we all have to think about it. I think that after nine and a half years of your operation, we are not the ones who need to think. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-20-366	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2019-11-20-367	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, my voice is getting worse and worse, but it's really embarrassing the dust coming up from here with the air, and it's hard for me to talk, and after a while, the airway doesn't last that long. So I would like to start by saying to my fellow Member, István Happy, who is the greatest communicator in the Chamber, that it is difficult just because our fellow Member Gábor Bányai has asked for reconciliation or reconciliation, because instead of professional debates and professional arguments, communism is in order not only today, but in many meetings, here in plenary and in many committees. At committee meetings in the Committee on Budgets, when István Happy was no longer an argument, we were always communists as it is, from my 37-year-old colleague to her 42-year-old. So, in itself, this nature hinders the existence of a normal relationship between the ruling parties and the opposition. But only to show Mr.Blessed to Mr.István who his boss is and how his boss thought, because if anyone is, his boss Viktor Orbán really came into the world from a communist cradle. And just in order to quote the speech by Viktor Orbán in 1991, it sounded like the following. [[4.40]] I would like to make it clear that socialist political thinking and practical policy are not from the devil for us. In the case of the Communists' successor party, the MSZP, in the past year and a half, things have evolved to the point that they may already become a credible social democratic party in the next electoral term. In order to ensure the stability of Hungarian democracy, we must overcome our bad memories. So this boss, who has created the foundations for you here in this House, is disparaging and hurting anyone who disagrees with you. I'm telling you, I started politics a few years ago because I thought I'd been patient enough for the last 25 years to wait for my children and my grandchildren to leave a world, leave a country in which they're worth living, and live happily. I wanted my child to grow up in a country of strong national consciousness and then have children. I wanted this country to be fair to children, fair to the elderly, and to give the active age group every opportunity to develop their values and abilities. That's what I've been waiting for for for 25 years, and then I saw that it didn't work. That's why I started politics. I agreed to come to the House of the country because I thought that all the principles that had unfortunately not been implemented in my life, perhaps I would have waited for them in the human voice, in the voice of cooperation, in the voice of professionalism, in the voice of the principle of agreement... and any of them, because I have already been in committee with both of them, also with Congressman Böröcz and István Happy, when opposition proposals came in, and we wanted you to vote in favour, so I didn't communist, I didn't fascistize, I didn't underestimate any of them, but I told you about those life situations, I mentioned to you the difficulties of the social groups that we have to pay close attention to because they have fallen, are weak, and we have to add them to what they lack. You've never heard a rude, abusive voice from me. We can agree on that, can't we? At committee meetings, I'm sure you'll never come from me. And the next thing you know, you always talk about us as the opposition in general. When we mention how you've hurt us or abused us, we assign it to the person and introduce it to you. Happy István, when he talks about me, that I have been rallying, I have sirening, and I have done anything at all, it shows that my fellow Member, István Happy, is here in general, does not notice what is happening around him. Because I kept circling on December 12th because I didn't want to be hearing impaired, and I sat most where my colleagues are sitting right now, because it was the siren's furthest, I talked to you guys, I talked to everyone, and I wasn't a part of it, but I never told them that I wasn't a part of it, that I wasn't a part of it. Is that right? So we always tie him to a person when we object to something, and you constantly see en blog as the attitude of the entire opposition everything that one or more Members have done. Again, this is important because we are always trying to present the facts in real terms, and you are trying to weaken everyone with those arguments using an experienced experience. My next thought is that those who have power and money have greater responsibility for society. Whoever has power must be generous. Power and generosity can only work together. If a power can't be generous, I'm sure it will fail. By the way, if you, from 2010, were only against those social groups who had difficulties, who had fallen, who were weak... you don't have to be generous with the strong, be generous with the weak, then you really could have governed for 30 years. Then your system could really have survived, because there is a generous element in their governance. [[To Gergely Arató, who talks to fellow Members:]] I'm sorry, dear friend, here on my left, Gergely Arató, when you spoke, we listened very carefully, but now they've spoken so loudly that I can't hear my own voice either. Thank you. [[Gergely Arató: Submit a parliamentary amendment. Deficit among DK's representatives. The president's ringing the bell.]] Gerger, you're so much smarter than that. So I would expect that, if our fellow Member of Bánya speaks in favour of agreement or cooperation or the creation of minimum funds, then he must also do so, because you are in a position of power, that you must exercise generosity against us, as against society. The hand must be given to you first, so that the other party, the weaker one, the less one, can return it to you. Thus, it is regularly expected of the opposition that the opposition cannot do either because of its non-powerful position or because of its smaller number. I was very pleased when my fellow Member, Antal Csárdi, read the differences in the work, because I would like to add to that myself. I've been watching since May 8, last year about the average number of people present in the pro-government ranks, right, 133. Now, listen up. Out of the 133 Members, there were on average six pro-government representatives in the House, taking into account all the sitting times. Does the House have authority? Can the House's authority be spoken of by the political community in Parliament, who is represented on average by six people from 133? Can you speak of dignity and authority where such a large number of people do not visit their workplaces? ! Of course, the Chamber is full of votes, and they are still not generally so interested in the authority of the House that each voting day the governing president must warn the pro-government representatives, so it was Tuesday that they would do it, either to go out or to sit down in their seats, because the speaker from his own party cannot start the speech, because there is so much noise in the pro-government lines. The shock to me is that you are talking about any kind of authority and dignity, that you cannot even behave with dignity and with respect to your own. Let me remind you one more time. There was a time before Christmas during the Gyurcsány government when 1200 questions were asked to the government before Christmas. And since it was determined how many days to answer, it was not 30 days, it was much less, because you were already trying to make this longer, so not the socialist ministers, as our fellow Member Mesterházy said, but the staff working in the government were punished for not being able to go anywhere between the two holidays, they were still writing answers on New Year's Eve. So when you were in opposition, you were able to be so ruthless. Don't worry, I've also thought about doing it to you before Christmas to say, say, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30 December, 30, 30, 30 December, 30 December, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30 December, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, I'll tell you what else is causing this terrible hostility in the opposition to you often, which may then manifest itself in loudness. [[4.50]] That unbridled financial bulge surrounding the Prime Minister and your parties and the extremely tasteless and immoral way of life that goes along with it. I stress that I am not talking about you, not Mr Böröcz, not István Happy, not Zsolt Csenger-Zalán and not Csaba Nagy. You know who we're talking about. By the way, these are the people that you can't see most of the time, or, if you can, are very hidden, who are sending you here as an outpost, as a shield, to represent their interests. I am surprised that you do not rebel at the immoral and material bulging of your party mates and the oligarch system around them. This alone undermines and destroys the moral basis on which, for example, government parties and opposition can be built here in Parliament, or at least to establish the basic values of conduct to which everyone adheres. My fellow Member Böröcz said that, yes, you will be punished, too. My fellow Member, you are told every 10 times when you speak ill. I am so sorry, but this is also addressed to Mr Vice President. You have to let him know that that's not a problem, doesn't that bother you? Yes, there is no equal treatment. And while you do not see Vice-President, when Vice-President of the opposition is chairing the meeting, the members of the Fidesz and KDNP are much more disciplined, even though it is not typical that the Vice-President of the opposition would warn anyone so much, it is not typical that he would take advantage of the possibility that he would now warn the ruling parties. Barely! But interestingly, they are more disciplined under their leadership. This is also a feature of the past year and a half. I would like to join my fellow Member, Mr Arató, in order to withdraw this proposal, although we know that this was not made in the offices of the authors, but was probably formulated by the team around the boss. Then tell him to take it back, and let's do a good house rule and a good parliamentary law for all of us. And remember this: when their popularity may decrease, they would like to go to the municipalities and local government organisations where they want to check to see if they can find something that is not properly done in opposition-led cities. I guess that's gonna happen. My fellow Members, you will also not be able to enter those municipalities without checking in and the companies of municipal organisations. It's a double-edged weapon. With diplomacy, we'll be able to find a way to get there and find our way around it. But believe me, because of the defiance you've created on the opposition side, you're sure to try to prevent them from getting in in in a cooperative way, because, as God gives you, you're like a bet god. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-20-368	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next 15-minute speaker is Bence Tordai, Dialogue.
u2019-11-20-369	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Now that it's almost 5:00 in the morning and this debate has been going on for six hours, I'm thinking about how to convince Fidesz colleagues that what they're doing is problematic. The bill that is about to be adopted is bad in all respects, especially from the point of view of Hungarian society and the state of Hungarian democracy. Unfortunately, I have to admit that arguments of such a democratic rule of law have little impact on you. You didn't understand in 2010 why it was difficult to cut the powers of the Constitutional Court. After that, they did not understand why filling the Constitutional Court with party soldiers, then the State Audit Office, the Office of the General Prosecutor and, in fact, any place that would in principle play an important role in the system of brakes and balances, as an institution independent of the executive authority. You don't understand, so there might be no point in referring to that. You also didn't understand why if you swore on the Constitution, why it is problematic to abolish it and why it is problematic to put in place a Fundamental Law that no one outside of you supports, and no one voted for it, why it is difficult to write a one-party electoral system and why it is problematic to write a one-party parliamentary law or house rule. They do not understand this so much that when the leaders of your European political party family declare that the disenfranchised legal certainty you represent, the misrepresentation of the rule of law, has no place in the European Christian Democrat or People's Party, you do not understand or pretend that you do not understand that this is for you. Márta Mátrai, when President Tusk listened to Viktor Orbán's recent message, he kept saying that this is not Fidesz, this is certainly not for us, it is for someone else, I don't know who it is, but it certainly doesn't apply to us. When they break away from reality at this level, it seems that in this language you will not understand what we want to say. Then you could try an approach of a social nature. We could say that the fact that you can't go on the scene without checking in to visit state institutions has consequences, for example, that you won't find out that you're overworking in your offices, and that you're practically applying the slave law, the conditions under which you live in foster homes or orphanages, children, or the harsh treatment that you get in the mental hospital. In the same way, though, we could talk about nursing homes or institutions for homelessness, where in many places there are also unsatisfying conditions. This is also because opposition representatives suddenly appear in such places. In the same way, it would not have been known without the use of this tool that your orders were to starve refugees, children, elderly people and sick people at the Hungarian border in the transit zone. The Hungarian representatives are not only the witnesses, not only the international representatives, but also the witnesses, but European court judgments say that they should abandon this practice, but you will always wait for each one of the starving refugees to be told by the court that you cannot do this. We know that it doesn't affect you, and it's a pity to call it; I won't refer to it then either. I do not think that you are very impressed by the political, economic approaches. If we are trying to figure out why Parliament's authority is under the back of the frog, then I must tell you that it is not the secondary, unheard yellings that erod the authority of Parliament, but the laws that you make and the interests that arise behind them. So when the Hungarian people see that you accept the slave law, which serves the Hungarian workers more and more to the employers, especially the international multinationals or the large companies of fidesz oligarchs, or when you redistribute social incomes and implement a perverse redistribution that takes away from the poor, so that you can give more and more to the already wealthy people, when they provide their friends with billion-dollar businesses in the name legislation, when they rewrite the tax system that single-key income tax is favourable to high incomes and abolishes the early tax rate for small and medium-incomes, when it looks that in Hungary one of the highest public burdens on work is the minimum wage, and 60 percent of average income, while large corporate taxes are at the level of tax havens, it is a tax rate of 9%, or an effective tax rate of around 1 per cent on large companies, which is the product of your legislation, when people see it, when they see it is true, that they do not. Nor is it possible for you to withdraw the rights of opposition representatives. [[5.00]] But I understand that this argument will not affect you, because you stand in the wages of lobbyists and serve the interests of large companies; you want to feed your own billionaire friends to the richer; you believe that it is some sort of completely misunderstood historical justice that Viktor Orbán's gas mechanic buddy will make one of the thousands of richest people in the world out of Hungarian taxpayers' money and I could continue the line. So you won't be touched by this either, and you won't understand or understand it. I think that you really understand an conduction, that you speak a language relatively well, and that is the language of power policy. So if we consider that you have continued this policy, this elitist policy, this policy that serves only your own interests, the interests of fidesz friends, relatives and business partners, and that the result of this policy was your massive election defeat on 13 October, then perhaps it is worth thinking about. So, from the moment the opposition created its political conditions, its framework conditions, if you like, the political infrastructure to give you clear beats, they have already done so, primarily and for the first time in the more informed metropolitan electoral districts, cities, settlements, Budapest districts. But be assured that this recognition is falling into other layers of society, and you will have a very strong and majority social opposition on an ever wider scale. So if you at least understand this language, you could also understand that the continuation, overdrive, of this restrictive, vulnerable, repressive type of policy, is not better than before, but will lead to even worse results. So if you want to run into another and even bigger election defeat, here you go, here you go, this way, you're doing well, I can only encourage you. Believe me, this doesn't hurt as much as it will hurt you in 2022, the election defeat and then the fact that a significant part of your accomplices will surely end up in prison after the independent justice system has been restored. But I'll tell you a little bit further, an allegory that I think everyone who's been to school understands. Imagine this school where the supreme power is a silly, aggressive gym teacher who constantly exercises students; and there is a part of students that fits into this system and obeys unconditionally, and there is a part of students that doesn't tolerate bullying, humiliation, if this gym teacher throws keys at them, living up to his sadistic tendencies, refusing to perform any kind of exercises, especially if the gymnastics hasn't been 45 minutes, but has been 450 minutes. So if there is such a school environment, then I think you will understand that it will happen sooner or later, but hopefully, as soon as possible, that their parents of these children, who are afflicted and tried to be held in oppression and fear by such a gym teacher, will go there and make sure that this teacher can no longer bully their children or even teach at that school, can no longer teach in that country in any public education or public education institution. And that's pretty much what's gonna happen to you. So I think it is pretty much taken off that such figures as Viktor Orbán, László Kövér, are silly but aggressive gym teachers, and the Hungarian voters, who will drive themselves away very soon, very firmly, and you may finally understand the lesson that I have tried to tell here in four different languages, I fear that I am still not fully successful, but I am still curious and with minimal hope waiting for your reactions to this point. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-370	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the author, Mr László Böröcz, Member Fidesz.
u2019-11-20-371	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of things have been said, something had to do with the presentation, something hasn't, something less, but there was always a discussion about who's now being personal, who's saying what, who's not saying what. You will tell us why personalism goes, and what words and phrases we use, and then you will use that momentum to step on either Member István Happy or other Fidesz Members. Then let us at least try to be coherent, if you have a problem with that, at least do not do the same in your next sentence. What I have said, I understand that you, as we have, are disturbed by someone who shouts out at you, but the debate of today's bill is not because, by the way, we were shouting at each other, because we sometimes spoke a little more impertinently, impertinently, but it is because there have been a number of cases that have obviously resulted in the majority of the government thinking that they wanted to tighten up these sanctions, because, by the way, if we go back to December 2018, we have seen a performance here that not only uses certain terms that I would not quote and that some forms of language have been spoken, but that the majority of the government thought that they wanted to tighten up these sanctions, and that, by way, if we went back to December 2018, they tried to make it impossible not only to use certain terms that they didn't quote and that they said certain forms of words, but that they prevented the session from being held down, they didn's work in Parliament. So if we're going to assume why we're here, then we're here because you've crossed a line you shouldn't have. And the fact that Congressman Hadházy put up a sign here, and I believe that you liked it was a good joke, I'm sure, but on the whole, these are the symptoms, these are the actions that make us deal with this bill today. And it's not that you can't say what you want, you can say what you want. And it is not that we would have changed the rules, we want to tighten the rules, otherwise, that we are trying to free this House from personalism, obsceneness and primitive comments, or at least have sanctions for it, whether there is a consequence, if someone talks like that, shows such signs, or wants to introduce such a form of behaviour here in this House, then there should be consequences. To be honest, I did not quite understand Mr Arato's comment. [[Gergely Harvestó: No wonder!]] I mean, that's a very sympathetic comment from you, but, of course, it's okay at this time of year, 'cause that's when it's possible. The other one can be insulted in person, of course, at a time like this, but you tell me how bad things are and how ugly we are. What you told me is an idyllic world, that when you were a secretary of state, you answered everyone in everything, you told everyone in court that in room 116, where your roommate was János Zuschlag, you didn't realize for years that you were running an account factory. Or, by the way, he told the court that the assembly meeting that was held at your apartment, well, what does God say, there was no one there, but you remembered that they were there. Then what are you talking about, Congressman? [[Gergely Harvesto: How did you get here?]] How did you get here? [[Bence Tordai: Speaking of house rules, by the way. The Parliamentary Act.]] The fact that you explain that when you were Secretary of State, you did everything you could to answer everything, and now the ugly Fidesz Members are not responding to anything. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai, neither are the KDNPs.]] So the problem is, if you're already making these kinds of accusations, at least be self-critical from this point of view, and don't pretend that between 2002 and 2010, you're doing something sublime, big... and you're being gallant about the opposition at the time. They didn't behave gallantly, not at all. The truth is, I don't fully understand what you're expecting. I understand that they want to go to government, that's all right, and obviously all opposition parties want to go to government. But why do you expect us to follow those ideas and motivations, the worldview that you represent? [[5.10]] Obviously, we make economic laws of that type, social policy laws of that kind, because we agree with that, and the voters have authorized us to do so. There are two versions here: either they are trying to establish a relationship to be cooperative between the opposition and the government, and I am not saying that we may be at fault in this, and I even doubt that there are two parties in such a story, but to tell you that everything is the government's responsibility, and that everything is the government's fault and the Fidesz-KDNP, because we are ugly, evil and bad, so don't be angry, it's a little smiling. I think we should practice a little more self-criticism. I don't know if Congresswoman Versus Anett is here. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: She left because she has to teach at 8:00.]] I had plans, too, but I've already canceled the whole morning. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. Gergely Harvestó: That's what happens when you have a job.]] So I had plans, too, but I canceled the whole morning. That's what I said. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, sure, you guys work all the time, and we don't. That's the attitude, that's the style you object to us, by the way, if we insult you a little bit, but you're doing it with every single half of your sentence, which, by the way, I think is very repulsive. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] But what you said here about 2006 and what the Liberal Congresswoman said, frankly, I don't understand which movies you're watching. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Well, not the fideszest!]] In 2006, you got shot in the crowd, sent out the police without an identification number, beat up the protestors, so the truth is... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: 2006 for the violent overthrow of the constitutional order...]] Now, this is your movie. This is your movie theater! Otherwise, sending police officers out without an identification number is usually customary in dictatorships. This is how you sent out hundreds of police officers and beat up peaceful protestors in Budapest. That's the thing. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Which peaceful protesters? The one who set fire to the TV station?]] That's the thing, Congresswoman. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] We're talking about October, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We know exactly what happened.]] You deliberately twist, deliberately delirious, and what you did in 2006 is an outrage. Frankly, the shame of Jobbik is that he is assisting you in the return of Ferenc Gyurcsány at this moment. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: He was here, he didn't leave.]] By the way, Congressman Balczó said that Jobbik is not an ally to you, but merely a casual cooperation. Yet there are local governments where you govern together. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There will be a bigger surprise! Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] It's okay, you guys get ready for 22:00, that's okay. I'm not saying you can't win, you can win, you can try. In a democratic system, elections must be won, otherwise laws can be passed in Parliament if they acquire a majority or if they convince us that your proposal is good. But I can't do this right now. So I think that we can criticize each other's views, we can't agree with each other, but the style that you're starting to put in place here, I don't think that style can be allowed, and that's why we need the law, to say the least, to tighten up the law that we put forward. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2019-11-20-372	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Two-minute comments, first from Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, DK.
u2019-11-20-373	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Mr Böröcz that it does not bother me when the Szilárd Németh who sits in front of me yells at me; I do not understand what he mutters, obviously he is not kind, but does not bother me or even inspire me specifically. It bothers me to hear László Fat say such things about the opposition, that he's a lowlife, lowlife, traitor to the nation. So I think there's a difference between someone mumbling in front of me, I'm sure they're not nice, because there's no harmony between us, I think it's been revealed the day before yesterday; but this traitor, which we hear very often, I think is what the authority of this House is basically how do I say it? Destroy it. I would like to say to him, because I heard his voice complaining about how long it was time for the opposition to give the keynote speeches, while only two of the governing parties could speak, one fidesz and one KDNP. I think I'd just like to say, based on the support, it was already over-represented, because I think there are just as many KDNP voters as there are in this House, so that's it. But I find it rather exaggeration when pro-government representatives complain about how few opportunities they have to speak in front of the Parliament in public. Look, you bought yourself a television with Hungarian taxpayers' money, so we co-finance Hungarian television, Hungarian radio and all its attachments. For example, I've been in there a long, long time; you may think on television that I don't say anything interesting, but no DK representative has been getting in very much in the last few years, as I think a significant part of the opposition representatives will not be invited to that television, which, by the way, should, let's say, be broadcast this current meeting. There's no possibility of that. So I'm sorry that I'm not so sad that you've just had a problem here with the public. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-374	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi will have the floor.
u2019-11-20-375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm a little tired, but Mr. Böröcz made me wake up seriously. The thing is, he's been acting like I'm serious, like you guys haven't been here in 30 years. You weren't here, but your Fidesz fellow Members were here. I feel bad about you measuring it with double standards, just saying that we're offended, we're the ones who use obscene expressions. Márta Mátrai didn't answer, but she should answer: what to say to what you say, my little mother,.. take off the babydoll, Ági.... but your mother, it's not the Communist Party. [[László Böröcz: I apologized.]] Please comment on these, because this has also destroyed the House's authority, and if we have reached this point, it is not just because of opposition representatives. It's not like only the ugly opposition and the Fidesz are perfect. [[László Böröcz: I didn't say that!]] But that's what he suggested. [[László Böröcz: I apologized, Congresswoman.]] He'll pay for his yellings in the next period. [[Intercoms.]] And yes, you are right, my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, that law will be cheated against us by force, and we certainly do not take it well, as we did not take kindly to it, and I commend you on that, because you say that we behaved unworthyly in the House, when we took the pulpit on the day of the slave law, we whistled. Yes, we whistled because the words were wrongfully drowned in my fellow Members, who still had the right to speak. Repetition is the mother of knowledge, and once again we will say that the debate was closed in an unhoused manner. Thousands of modifiers were thrown into the trash. There is no more detailed debate in the Hungarian Parliament, and we also resent this very much, these are also the rights of representatives. Or, for example, the legislation goes without consensus, and there is no consultation, and let us not talk about the retroactive effect that has been applied for a long time, and, yes, the first thing the public media had to do was to stop the parliamentary mediation. This also contributes to the opposition's monitoring and public information function. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-376	Thank you, Congresswoman. For two minutes, Congressman Gergely Arató will have the floor.
u2019-11-20-377	I am not particularly sensitive to the manner in which Members of Parliament are talking to each other, frankly; if we have already quoted the old memories here and the 2015 parliamentary period: I was sitting across from them for a while, there was the seat of the Ministry of Education behind me, Mr.Orbán Group Leader, sorry, then it wasn't, Mr. Party President sat and the hard core of Fidesz, and they kept screaming in my ear while I was talking. But I think that includes parliamentary work. However, I would like to say in silence to Mr Böröcz that I know that it does not matter, and I do not want to limit your freedom of speech in this matter: there is a difference between the Members being a little emotional and interrupting something, or there is a difference between expressing their views in a debate about the other's political views, and the explicit personal abuse is going a little beyond that. [[5.20]] But I'll leave that to everyone's good taste. That is why I asked for the floor, in fact, because I wanted to say that the fundamental difference between the position of the government and the opposition on this issue is that you think you have the right to determine what is right, what is good, what is wrong with your ears, what is not. [[Turning to László Böröcz:]] You are shaking your head, my honourable fellow Member, in this debate on many occasions you have said that you do not like the behaviour of the opposition in such a way. I take note of that, and I thank you for your concern that society likes my behaviour, since I have been regularly modeled in the press by Mr Máté Kocsis, even if it does not go as far as Congressman Tordai. Even I have a lot of work to do. The point is, it's none of your business. It's not your job to decide what another congressman says, how to say it. The voters will judge it on occasion.
u2019-11-20-378	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute comment will be followed by Anita Kőrösi Potocsány.
u2019-11-20-379	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I may have put a little more emotion in my earlier speech than I should have. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Good one!]] But I think it's important and it's possible to talk about what's in the walls of this House. Believe me, and I'm telling those people who are watching this broadcast right now that we're here because of them. We are here for those people, for those Hungarian voters, and we are holding this debate in progress, and let us keep our comments on these bill proposals, because in their interests we are acting in their service, because we know that if this bill passes, and my fellow Members have said that this will be pushed through the Hungarian Parliament by the Fidesz and KDNP representatives, that it will certainly undermine those rights. Who knows that in years' time, when today, this night's debate day, will be history, then how will the house rules evolve, then what opportunities will the opposition representatives have? Because what's important to us is that we hear our voices. I've been asked a number of times what's the point of being here in Parliament as an opposition, what we can do. What can we do? We're running our mouths. By running our mouths, perhaps one day you will consider why you were admitted to the Hungarian Parliament and why the Members of Parliament took their oath, perhaps many, many cycles ago. But believe me, this legislation, which is before us now, is a black day of democracy, you want to abolish the rule of law with this mouth-breaking law. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-380	Thank you, Congresswoman. In a 15-minute time frame, Mr Zsolt Gréczy is next.
u2019-11-20-381	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We are not only discussing the future today, tonight, tonight, this dawn, this morning and so on, but we are also recalling the past. I think that this debate is not useless, because if it turns up in 2006, there are some things that need to be fixed. In autumn 2006, there was a coup attempt against a legally and democratically elected government. In the summer of 2006, Viktor Orbán, who could not bear the second election defeat in a row, faced the fact that only two thirds of the delegates attended the Fidesz Congress. Lajos Kósa told one of the left-wing newspapers that Orbán was only good for shaman, but not for leader. In this situation, he suddenly arrived in the autumn of 2006, which, by the way, they are now talking about as if the atrocity of police officers was the norm in this matter. I'd like to point out that there are more officers injured than civilians. You don't like to talk about the fact that one of your fellow Members, András Nyitray, tried to get you shot in the crowd with live ammo. Let's record this for the record. That's what really happened, Mr. Böröcz, no wonder. I believe you're shocked because you're dealing with this event right now. [[A statement from the benches of Fidesz: For it is not true!]] But it doesn't mean it doesn't. He was Vice-President of the Bács-Kiskun County General Assembly, and what happened was that the day after the siege, at a closed meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee, he argued in favour of the use of live ammunition by the press. Encryption of the minutes of the meeting has been lifted, which says that the congressman says it's a quotation mark, and it's a good thing that a police officer or two didn't die there, and a non-police officer or two. I'm gonna add that, 'cause they were throwing rocks all over the place. If that's not reason enough for someone to use their weapon, there's a big problem here. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Quote closed. The citation mark is locked in front of the oops, not after. So your fellow Member, a Nyitray, who was then removed from Parliament, said that the police should have used sharp ammunition. So you guys are in the business of shooting eyeballs while you're after dead people on Pest Street. [[Gábor Bányai: Let's not do this.]] But it's the truth! Let me get this straight. In this strange virtual reality of yours, this eye-lashing and the police have hurt poor civilians while otherwise closing bridges, smashing windows [[László Böröcz: But his eyes were blown out!]] They crashed cars and burned cars. The police tried to clean up under the circumstances, and this is how hooligans are treated to clean up the streets, for example, when British football fans make a scandal. Hungarian football fans have also been abroad and have been taken away. Your fellow Member, Mr Nyitray, I have just read to you, Mr Böröcz, I believe that you are now shaken by this; you are a young man, and in 2006 you obviously wanted to have your child's years trampled with sharp ammunition, and you wanted to get shot into the crowd. You know, death victims. [[It mimics the sound of a machine gun.]] A lot of people die. This is what your fellow Member, András Nyitray, wanted. Let us record this for the sake of Parliament's report. [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] What's the problem? (László Böröcz intervenes. ) Press the button, fellow Member. I quoted the minutes of the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee.
u2019-11-20-382	Congressman, from Fidesz.
u2019-11-20-383	I was literally quoting it. Now it's gonna be in Parliament's report that you wanted to get shot in the crowd. The other problem is that quotes can be tricky, too. I will give you a quote, and I will recommend this to my happy fellow Member, because, of course, Solzhenicin has his own truth about what the communist Stalin system has done. I understand exactly that this is unacceptable and shameful. It's very fortunate that Solzhenitsin survived and wrote it in his memoirs. But if someone brings this one aspect to their attention and thinks they are quoting it, then I am forced to refer to the memoirs of a writer of great importance to you, a certain Sándor Márai, who is known as a civil writer. The quote is as follows: In order for Hungary to be a nation again, an esteemed family in the world, it is necessary to destroy from the soul of a kind of person something known by the label of the right-wingness; to know that he, as a Christian Hungarian man, can enjoy privileges in this world simply because he is a Christian Hungarian gentleman, he has the right to live well without talent and knowledge, to carry up his nose, to look down on anyone who is not, ChristianHungarian, or to be a gentleman, to keep his grip on him, and to ask for a bakshish from the state, society: job, honor, remaining Jewish estate, to make an exception in all aspects of life. Because that was the real meaning of the right-hand side. ... asking for a bakshish from state, society... And this kind doesn't learn to write Marai - : who is over thirty years old and raised in this spirit and atmosphere is written in his diary in 43, it is hopeless; perhaps he compromises, gnashing his teeth, and because he is selfish and cowardly: he will surely bow down to the new system because Marai already felt that the Russians were coming; but in his heart he will forever cry back the right-wing, Christian, national, world within which he could rob Jewish wealth, kill competitors and sell in large companies, without education and competence. And it was possible to be a distinguished public official and an inviolable military officer protected by armor; and for all this nothing but the fact of his own precious existence. This kind never changes. But as long as they have a word or influence, Hungary will not be a nation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-11-20-384	Thank you very much, Congressman. In the next 15 minutes' time frame, Mr László György Lukács, Member, Jobbik. [[5.30]]
u2019-11-20-385	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I spoke a long time ago, many hours ago, in the lead speakerial round, and since then there has been quite a lot of thinking here, and I would like to reflect on a lot of things, but most of all I would like to answer, and this will be a relatively more professional and more dry comment on how international regulation stands, if we have referred to it so many times. It is certainly worth reviewing the international legislation and the 34 European and 5 non-European countries, among which there are potential EU candidates, i.e. candidates for EU membership, whose practice has been highlighted several times today. I think it is worth starting with what the regulation is like in the European Union, in the European Parliament. We know about the European Parliament that it has a Chamber, which is a 2016 figure, and obviously changes will occur to 751 people. The Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, the document governing the speech of Members and the disciplinary powers attached thereto, lays down the most general rule of conduct in Article 11 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the conduct of Members must be characterised by mutual respect, must rest on the values and principles set out in the basic documents of the European Union, must preserve the dignity of Parliament and must not hinder the smoothness of Parliament's work or the peace of mind in the building of Parliament. Then point 10 goes on: the code of conduct is therefore a code of conduct, and here many people have said that a code of conduct could be put in place, so point 10 says, and the rights and privileges of former Members are laid down in the Presidency's decision. The rules distinguish between visual manifestations which can be tolerated if they are not offensive and/or defamatory, remain within reasonable limits and do not create conflicts. Any disturbance in parliamentary activity must be avoided. In the European Parliament, the President shall ensure compliance with the rules and order. The order of the gallery is provided by the room guards, all persons who express favor or disapproval are immediately led out. And here is an important part: the immediate measures to be taken in the event of a breach of the rules of conduct may be as follows: the President may order a representative who obstructs the proper conduct of the meeting or who fails to comply with the relevant provisions of Article 11; in the event of repeated disturbance, the President may order the representative once again, and the fact of ordering the meeting shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting; in the event of further or continuing disorderly disturbance, the President may withdraw the floor and exclude him from the Chamber for the remainder of the meeting. In the event of a particularly serious disturbance, the President may resort to the latter measure without a second order. The Secretary-General shall ensure the implementation of disciplinary action without delay, with the assistance of room guards and, if necessary, of the parliamentary security service. If disorderly conduct endangers the conduct of parliamentary debates, the President shall interrupt or suspend the meeting for a limited period of time in order to restore order. If the President cannot find a hearing, he may leave the chair, the meeting shall be adjourned and the president shall convene the meeting again. This is contained in Article 165. As regards sanctions, the European Parliament makes the following distinction. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] In the event of a very serious disturbance or disruption of Parliament's work, which infringes the principles laid down in Article 11, the President shall, after hearing the Member concerned, take a reasoned decision establishing the sanction, which he shall communicate to the Member concerned and to the Chairs of the bodies, committees and delegations of which he is a member, prior to notification at the plenary session. In addition to the seriousness of the form of conduct, it is taken into account in this Regulation on the basis of the attached guidelines, i.e. when assessing the form of conduct, it takes into account, in addition to its seriousness, whether it is a one-off or a recurring infringement or a permanent infringement. The sanction established may include one or more of the following measures: reprimand, withdrawal of a daily allowance for a period of 2 to 10 days without prejudice to the right to vote in plenary for a period of 2 to 10 days, temporary suspension from participation in all or part of Parliament's activities, proposed to the Conference of Presidents in accordance with Article 21, aimed at suspending and reprimanding one or more of the Members' mandates in Parliament. It is also important to clarify the possibility of appeal in the European Parliament, since international practice has already been discussed: the sanctioned representative may lodge an internal appeal to the Presidency within two weeks, the appeal suspends the sanction. The Presidency may, not later than four weeks after the appeal has been lodged, annul, approve or mitigate the sanction established, without prejudice to the external remedies available to the Member concerned. If the Presidency has not taken a decision within the time limit laid down, the penalty shall be deemed null and void. Let us look a little closer in international and neighbouring European practice, let us look at the Austrian example. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] There are two chambers in the Austrian Parliament, Nationalrat and Bundesrat. The former, the House of Commons or the former House of Commons operates with 183 persons, while the upper House operates with 61 people. If we look at the rules of the House of Commons, we see that, according to Article 11 of the Rule of the House of Commons, Members are obliged to attend plenary and committee meetings. If the Member is unable to attend one or more consecutive meetings, he shall inform the Presidency thereof before the beginning of the first meeting. The speaker shall read the names of those absent at the beginning of the meeting, which shall be recorded in the minutes. If the Member is unable to attend meetings for more than 30 days, he shall inform the Speaker in writing. If the reason for absenteeism is not a disease, the President shall inform the participants of the reasons for absenteeism. If Members have doubts about the real cause of absenteeism, they may decide without debate to call on the missing Member to attend the meetings immediately. If the Member is absent for no justified reason, the House may appeal to the Constitutional Court to decide whether or not to deprive the Member of his mandate. According to the House Rules, if the Member deviates from the subject in his speech, this is no longer one of the more serious sanctions, but rather of the disciplinary sanctions or management measures that may be applied to the discussion of the items on the agenda, so the House Rule requires that, if the Member deviates from the subject during his speech, the Speaker may request that he remain on the subject. After the third recess, the president may withdraw. If the representative had to be rejected several times in a row, the President may decide not to take part in the further session. If a Member violates the rules on opposition, behaves in a manner that offends manner/ethics, uses an offensive or inappropriate expression, the Speaker may order it to order. If the other person authorised to take part in the meeting fails to comply with the rules on opposition, the President may order, interrupt or withdraw from him the floor provided for in Articles 101 to 106 of the Rules of Procedure. In the event of a disturbance, the President may order the removal of the disruptor from the gallery in extreme cases. Penalty or fee reduction as a disciplinary penalty shall not be applied in the Austrian House of Commons. Ladies and gentlemen, It's still worth knowing. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] that there are also important elements concerning the appearance of the upper house rule, so that, in the event of absence, the same obligation is imposed to justify it as in the House of Commons. There is a process here, in which you can make sure that the Members of the Upper House in this case are the real reason for the rescue, or the absence, or the illness, which, by the way, also means the invitation of the Member to the immediate meeting. Similarly here, if the Member fails to comply with the request, he may be deprived of his seat as a member within 30 days, in which case a decision of the Constitutional Court is also required. [[5.40]] The rules of the Upper House are the same as those of the House of Commons with regard to the regulation of speeches, with the exception that the President may re-enter at the end of the meeting or at the beginning of the next meeting the representative acting in an irregular manner during his or her speech. Any person entitled to attend the meeting may ask the President to warn or warn the speaker not to deviate from the matter. This is a particularly interesting thing in view of the fact that anyone in the upper Austrian House can ask the President to appeal to someone during the speech; this would be an immediate criticism of the sitting in our country. In this case, there is an additional possibility that they themselves may request that the person in charge of the upper-house meeting consider the representative. Turning to the Belgian Parliament, and perhaps this is still the time, there are also two chambers in the Belgian Parliament, the House of Commons is 150 people, the House of Uppers is 60 people, so we have to work with a crowd of approximately the same size as us, although the House of Commons is essentially smaller. In the case of a roll-call vote within the meaning of Article 42 ( 5) of the House Rules, if the Member is unverified, he may withdraw between 10 and 60% of his allowances. The application of the sanction and the amount withdrawn shall be subject to the Member's absence of at least 20% or more of the roll-call votes. Obviously, the collection here is elegantly silent about voting with both hands. Even in Belgium, it is not possible to introduce this regulation, which reduces the number of people missing, that it is possible for MEPs to vote with double hands instead of those who are missing. But for example, Belgian legislation does not do or allow someone to delegate their voting rights to someone else and to vote twice, once in their own right, or in another case for another person. Obviously, the Hungarian legislation is looking for new ways, but we do not know whether these roads lead to the west or, where appropriate, to the Turk States. Let's stick to Belgium's lower house. Pursuant to Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure, if the speaker deviates from the subject, the President shall be re-elected. If the Member deviates from the matter twice after the meeting, the President shall withdraw the floor for the remainder of the sitting. The same procedure also applies if the Member repeats himself after two warnings. The Speaker of the House, every disorderly person again. If, during a meeting, the President again repeats the same representative twice, he shall also withdraw his right of opposition for the remainder of the sitting. The representative shall not explain disorderly conduct until the end of the meeting unless the President decides otherwise. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, it is very common for the international comparison to give an explanation, here at the negotiations of the coming countries we will find an example of how it gives the Member the right to explain. For example, it would be extremely important in Hungary to not only give cause for disorderly conduct in order of business, but also to ask what was the cause of disorderly conduct. Maybe it's worth thinking about. So that's where we're at, for the explanation. If the Member has been deprived of his right to speak twice as a result, he may recover it if he submits a written request to the President stating that he has repented of his disrespectful conduct and abusive conduct towards the President. If a Member is seriously disruptive, the decision to impose a reprimand as set out in the minutes or to temporarily exclude him from Parliament's buildings shall be taken by the House on a proposal from the President. In the event of a decision on exclusion, the representative must leave the house, the representative shall not participate in the work of the house during its period of validity. The representative can explain his previous behavior in a maximum of 10 minutes, and then the house votes. If the excluded representative does not leave the house after the exclusion decision has been taken, the meeting shall be suspended or interrupted. What is very important, ladies and gentlemen, is that if Members break their obligation of secrecy in Parliament's work, they may also lose their membership in the organisation of Parliament whose work they have broken. The representative may not be replaced by the body in question, so that in such cases the representatives may lose 20% of the allowance for a period of three months. What is nowhere in it, however, are very long, extreme bans and extremely high penalties, and also does not limit the possibility of the Belgian House of Commons or the Upper House of Members to comment. These few examples, the functioning of the European Parliament, the Austrian Parliament and the Belgian Parliament, confirm how much wider and wider the international practice that Fidesz has chosen. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-386	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Dear Parliament, I declare that T/8044 has initiated the amendment of the Act on Parliament. H/8042 on bill H/8042 on individual house rules. Mr Gábor Bányai, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Mr István Happy and Mr Csaba Nagy joined the resolution proposal with the consent of the applicants. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]] I now give the floor to Mrs Ágnes Vadai, DK, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2019-11-20-387	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The previous announcement by the Speaker, President of the House, shows exactly how the Parliament works in Hungary today. There is a parliamentary law that has obviously been worked out very carefully by the representatives who are submitting without us, without opposition representatives. Then they started their general debate with the lead speakers this morning, which was obviously interrupted on the grounds that Hungarian voters should not be able to see this bill or the debate of this bill when it is normal time, say, in the morning, in the noon and in the afternoon. His debate continued at night, we started at about 3:15 p.m., and the big deal is that by now there are two pro-government MEPs, one of them is sitting inside. The reason why it was necessary to supplement the list of petitioners was because it was supplemented by those who were sitting here because they had run out of authors. This bill was not important enough for the authors to sit here the whole time. I understand that talking about these matters at this time of year, so slowly at 6:00 is very tiring. But once we have discussed this issue, it is also like education, health care or defence, and it is a national issue of how the House of Homeland works. I think that we obviously believe that we should have had a joint proposal, otherwise there could be a common proposal if this proposal had been withdrawn. But you do not think that together, indeed, by creating the unity of the nation, the unity of the nation should be represented by a bill, but that you, with your two thirds, will obviously pass this bill at any cost. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with a subject in this speech for which we have taken little time, which is the question of the exercise of disciplinary powers, but not of the penalties they impose, because we have seen how they intend to amend it, but rather the physical appearance of maintaining the court order in the Parliament building and specifically in the plenary Chamber. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 2 states that the chairman of the meeting may ask the notary or any notary, vice-president and housekeeper in the Chamber to attend the meeting. 46/C-46/G. In order to contribute to the elimination of unlawful conduct as set out in Section 5. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine, as my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Arató, as a notary with my colleague Bence Tordai, also with a notary, on the other side, Vice-President István Jakab and Vice-President Sándor Lezsák, on the other hand, and Mátra Márta Mátrai, on the middle, on the other hand, on ordering them here in the plenary Chamber, because the President of the House of Kövér, who is sitting above, will instruct them to do so. I'm sorry, can you imagine something more unworthy when you're going to get Members of Parliament to do that, and those who are leading the Parliament in order to eliminate illegal conduct according to them or the Speaker of the House? [[5.50]] But I ask you, what will Mr Bence Tordai have to do with Vice President Sándor Lezsák? Go up to the congressman and drag him out? I'd like to raise a problem about that, by the way. So, the big thing is, if Mrs Márta Mátrai is not going to be in the room, the big deal is that under the current rules, you will not be able to go to and act against women representing them, because, well, even in the police department, you have learned that a man's policeman does not touch a woman, and obviously, despite the instructions of the Speaker, you will not be able to touch any of the congresswoman István Jakab and Sándor Lezsák Tordai Bencé and Gergely Arató. This could, of course, result in the fact that the pro-government representatives may appoint several women's notaries or vice-presidents, which might be a good fit for the House, and it would work better. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that at a time when they are talking in general about maintaining the negotiating order, and it sounds very good to have all the notaries, the vice-president, the speaker and the speaker in the Chamber in the Chamber in order to assist in the elimination of the illegal conduct against whom the consequences of the various conducts are obviously not applicable, which is a problem because imagine that our acting colleagues are overshooting the target. They are overshooting, so you are taking measures against Sándor Lezsák or Vice-President István Jakab, such as notary Bence Tordai and Gergely Arató, and Márta Mátrai, together with me, which is not proportionate, but there is no legal consequences for the measures. There's no such thing anywhere in the world. Therefore, it is necessary and possible to question whether the measure is in order. In addition, if the requested notary, vice-president and the landlady do not comply with the request of the President in charge of the meeting, then all kinds of steps may be taken against him. Ladies and gentlemen, This roughly means that the leading officials of the Hungarian National Assembly essentially formed an unspoken organisation of violence. A rapist! The Speaker of the House will instruct the notaries, housekeepers and vice-presidents in the Chamber to take an active step. This may be violent against a Member of Parliament, and these persons cannot act against the instruction. I would like to say that this actually creates an even more unpleasant situation than what, say, is in the operation of armed and law enforcement agencies, because at least there is a certain order that can be challenged in writing. Here, in essence, you will not be able to act against the order. In addition, it is unclear to me about the relationship between the Parliamentary Guard and the House's officials' rapists. You have to know that. If the guards come in, will they take over? Or together: Sándor Lezsák, István Jakab, Bence Tordai, Gergely Arató, Márta Mátrai? And I'm sorry to mention them, I could also mention János Latorcai or Csaba Hende as Vice-Presidents, and obviously also among the notaries, such as József Móring, my fellow Member, or Dezső the Believer. So it could really be comedy scenes or tragic scenes. So these issues need to be clarified. I think that you will excuse me, fellow Members, for saying this, that the Speaker of the House can be given a wide variety of driver's licenses in order to maintain order in this House. But there is no way, my fellow Members, that the Speaker may order the officials of this House to do something they do not want to do. This is the case under the current legislation. Congresswoman Mátrai cannot be ordered to use violence against me if necessary. By the way, Congresswoman Mátrai is not like this, and I think that, in principle, I do not think that Vice-President Sándor Lezsák is like this either. I do not assume that all the Vice-Presidents and notaries here would want to use force on our fellow Members. I would like to think more about maintaining this system of negotiations, because from now on, there is only one question about what the Parliamentary Guard's specially trained task force, supported by extra wages, is for. Because what we do know is that within the Parliamentary Guard, who, by the way, are standing outside and doing their job with honor, there is such a special elite formation, volunteers, and, by the way, I note that those who were willing to take part in training for extra money and benefits, the purpose of which is to get a representative out of here. I say, of course, that he would obviously be in a temperament to this, and I would like to see how I would be dragged out of here and a number of my fellow Members, but obviously there are some who are willing to do anything for money, even to drag a Member. What was the point of training this elite if there was basically an official rapist ordered by the Speaker. This should be clarified in this bill as to the relationship between the members of the parliamentary, plenary or entry of the houseguards, the guards and, by the way, the housekeeper, the Vice-Presidents and the notaries with regard to the maintenance of the rules of negotiation and the exercise of the right to disciplinary action. It is not visible at the moment, and I believe that this is a cardinal issue; it does not stand the test of constitutionality; it certainly does not, not even according to your Fundamental Law. And I find it hard to imagine, fellow Members, that it is a good attitude that, after the establishment of so many guards, we already have TEK, guard, crown guard, palace guard, all the guards are creating a special organisation of violence which is not otherwise named within the parliamentary law. Of course, I will have to, obviously I don't know in what form, but I'm sure there's already an idea there, and you'll have to work out that if this special official organization of parliamentary officials is put together, then what kind of relationship is there here. So you guys got a rank? Then what benefits will you be entitled to? Or are they doing this voluntarily? What is the retaliation of those who refuse to do this task more than once? Do you, as officers, receive handcuffs, tear gas or any other means to carry out the duties or orders of the Speaker of the House? What happens if a Member resists, say, Vice-President Sándor Lezsák, because he is being instructed by the Speaker to exercise disciplinary authority or maintain the court order? What happens if someone opposes Congressman Sándor Lezsák, Vice President? So, as a member of a rapist, you were confronted by an official as vice president of Parliament? So, I think, fellow Members, that it is a terrible mistake to entrust to the officials of the Parliament a task which is not for the officials of the Parliament, but for which the Speaker has set up himself, obviously I would not be dissecting the reason why he has his own watch. And within that, such a yanking elite, who are supposed to be here, when it comes to it, to take the representatives and drag them out. I would like to say clearly that it will certainly violate the constitutional rights of the Vice-Presidents, the notaries and the magistrate in this form, that they will be forced to do a task which, on the one hand, obviously, when they took up this task, was not included in their duties and, on the other hand, accompanied by the use of physical violence that is not compatible with their duties for many. It is the job of a Speaker, a Speaker of Parliament, a notary, or the Housekeeper, to raise the light of this House, if you know, not everyone can, but they try. But they imagine that when Vice President István Jakab, together with Bence of Tordai, starts to do this, because the Speaker instructs him to do so, they would start working, and Congressman Tordai says that he refuses to do this, then what? Will the Speaker then reject Mr. György Szi-Lágyi? What if notary György Szi-Lágyi says no? Then will you bring out Mr. József Moring? I do not know Congressman Moring as if he would be willing to join forces with István Jakab, but to conspire to drag opposition representatives out by force, certainly not to do so. I just wanted to make it clear that it sounds very good on paper that the notaries and the vice-presidents will be instructed here, and especially the lady-in-chief to act and to carry out the speaker's instructions. [[6.00]] But have you considered the position of Parliament's officials and the extent to which they will destroy the authority of Parliament? And it occurred to them that, say, the pro-government vice president and the pro-government clerk were instructed by the Speaker, it was just really very theoretical, because I don't think it would happen in László Kövér's practice to get Congressman Csenger-Zalan out of there because he yelled a lot. Now, yelling is gonna be a punishment. Can you imagine this situation? Fellow Members! I think that it is legitimate to maintain the order of negotiation, and I think that there is a great deal of room for it; it is possible, by the way, from expression to keeping up with the various papers. I would like to note here briefly that every time my fellow opposition Members tried to reach a House Committee meeting to present various papers at their speeches, they refused each time. Can you imagine, fellow Members, that they will create and produce a situation that will bring down Parliament's authority in the dust? Because that's the bill and the part about maintaining the negotiating order, especially with regard to the vice presidents and the notaries and the speaker, that's exactly the direction. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-388	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering a 15-minute technical break. (Recess: 6.02-6.18) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Tickets: Attila Móring József and György Szilágyi)
u2019-11-20-389	We'll get back to work. Good morning. [[Defiance.]] Congressman István Happy asked for the floor. I give the floor to the representative of Fidesz, the author, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2019-11-20-390	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, From what I can see, I woke up 25 hours less than 10 minutes ago, and I left for Parliament exactly 24 hours and 20 minutes ago. And if this is the way our debate is going, then if we make it here at 9:00 a.m., I've been serving here for 24 hours. Some of my fellow Members here have mentioned that this is our job, and it must be here. I'm here, I just don't know where my colleague Bangóné is, where is Anett Bősz, where is Andrea Varga-Damm, who drove it, that it's our job to be here. I'm here to report. Where are they? 'Cause I'd have other things to do than a single-member constituencies president, because at exactly eight o'clock in Tiszazug, Kunszent márton, I'd start my day with a reception class, and...
u2019-11-20-391	Excuse me, Congressman, but let's get down to business, please, with respect.
u2019-11-20-392	So I would also like to apologize to the Kunszentmártonok, the Tisasasians, the Windsaws, the Csépians, the Cherkes, the Tiszamürtians and the Tiszaunokans, because because of today's debate, which has been going on since yesterday, I cannot attend today's host hour, unfortunately, because I have to be here. Some of my fellow Members have said things that I must respond to, Mr President. This has already happened, and I think you will allow me to do so, because it has been said in this debate. For example, my fellow Member, Mr Csárdi, said that I said that he had not worked. I'm sorry, I didn't say that he didn't work, and he even made an absurd comparison of how much more he spoke and how much more individual proposals he had than I did. There's six of them, and we're 133. Obviously, we share a little more work in a faction this size than in a six-man faction, but since we're making such absurd comparisons, I could say that all the proposals I've tabled have been accepted by Parliament, and I don't know how many of you have accepted, but I've worked well. [[Antal Csárdi and Lajos Korózs intervene. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And then I think that was a good joke. Varga-Damm Andrea said that my boss said something. I'm sorry, I'm admitting a boss over me, the good Lord I'm not arguing with. From him I accept absolutely and everything that he gives me, but I argue with someone else, and I do not accept that I have a boss, and as a child of parents in '56 let me always say what I think, and do not back down when I believe in something. What I said here in the previous speeches is not only proof of my faith, but also of history. Almost 101 years ago, the Hungarian Party of Communists was founded, and, as we know, the Communist does not perish, but only transforms, and, indeed, it has been constantly transformed in 101 years, reaching the MSZMP, and then the MSZMP became MSZP, from which DK was born. So don't be angry, you are the successor party of the Hungarian Party of Communists, which was established on 24 November 18th. Always as a successor party, look into the formation. The fortune was always brought, last time the MSZMP brought the fortune. There were also statements here that Mr Zsolt Gréczy mentioned the autumn of 2006. He was almost trying to make us believe the men that Ferenc Gyurcsány ordered us to shoot. That would've been strange, and I'm sorry. On October 23, I was up here with my wife and her parents to commemorate in Budapest, and I remember how the cops attacked the peaceful commemoration crowd and how my mother-in-law over 60 ran from the shooting cops. We were lucky, I might say, unlike my fellow Member, Márius Révész, who was beaten to death by police officers ordered by Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Gergely Arató: Ferenc Gyurcsány did not direct the police!]] And unlike many of my Hungarian compatriots whose eyes have been blown out, they have illegally imprisoned me. So the fact is that, despite trying to change history, my fellow Member Zsolt Gréczy, history is absolutely clear. What happened was that you and the then MSZP leadership, with Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, led the police to peaceful commemorations. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You will pay a lot of money for this!]] Maybe you will. You can't deny that. You did this. [[6.20]] And the fact that you quote Sándor Márai... well, don't be angry, but your party president lives in a villa taken from a Jewish man, which was confiscated by the Little Antals, and, as far as I know, was the father-in-law of Ferenc Antal Gyurcsány. So if I perceive it correctly, it is absurd that you quote that Christian people would want to take houses from Jewish people. The Bolsheviks did this back in the day. I don't understand them, but that's what they are. My fellow Member, Mr Anett Bősz, said that the opposition has done well in the past, which is why they have been so strengthened. Well, look, if you've done well with what Ákos Hadházy did in Parliament by showing signs, or you've done well by trying to destroy the hearing and physical integrity of others here in December, then I can't admit that to you. I think it's not a job well done, it's damage to the physical integrity of others. That's not how politics is supposed to be. It could be like we're doing today, arguing for hours. That's how you do politics, but by sirening people's hearing, you can't. I already told you October 23rd. Avenger Anett brought up October 23rd. I would also like to draw his attention to the fact that on 23 October we, the peaceful memorialists, were shot at. The power of that time was shot at us the same way my father was shot at in 1956. It's sad, but we know that communists were shot, and in 2006 Communists were shot. It's an undeniable historical fact. It would be a shame to try to change this historical fact to Mr Gréczy. They can often tell their own version, but still the historical fact remains, the Communists do not perish, they only transform, and they always destroy their own nation. They did so in 1918, so they did in 1956, so they did in 2006, and if they could come back, they would still do so. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-20-393	Thank you, Congressman. The next 15 minutes of comment is Congressman Antal Csárdi, Possibly Other is Politics.
u2019-11-20-394	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I am going backwards and I would first respond to the comments of my fellow Member, who is happy. My fellow Member said that anyone who is not Fidesz is a communist. We understand that. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Half the government was also a member of MSZMP.]] Zsolt, we understand that, but now I'm telling you. [[Defiance.]] I'm reading the Fidesz political ex-MSZMP members to see where the Fidesz backbone comes from, because that's what it means. It is not a matter of misinterpreting, my fellow Member, that they were members of the MSZMP, and they will arrange this with you in the mirror when you shave in the morning. The problem is, unfortunately, there are consequences. My fellow Member Böröcz did not vote in favour of the Agent Act, the publicisation of the agent files, nor did István Happy. In '56 he was shot at by his father, but he didn't vote for him. I wonder who's betraying who now. I wonder how much your father's memory is offended by the voting behavior you've committed. That's a big question. You know, I would be so happy to ask you if I could, if I could, if he really thought that István Happy was telling the truth, but why wouldn't he have told the truth against the gun barrel of his 56 communists, then how could my fellow Member afford not to support the publicity of the agent files. But not just once! Happy fellow Member, can you tell me how many times you have voted off this proposal from 20? All 20 times! [[István Happy: I voted in favour of András Schiffer's presentation several times.]] Unfortunately, that didn't appear to be the result, but I'll check it out. The records preserve these memories. But it is true that the decisive politicians of your political community came from the MSZMP, and their political culture was also clearly brought from there. And then I'll list the names again. I have done this once, but to make my fellow Member happy, I will say it again. [[6.30]] László Kövér, Zsigmond Járai, György Matolcsy, János Martonyi, Pál Schmitt, Rózsa Hoffmann, Sándor Pintér, István Mikola, János Fónagy, Béla Turi-Kovács and Péter Harrach. [[Noise, uproar, interrogations from the opposition benches, including Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Not true! I don't think so. Agnes Kunhalmi: This is slander! Mr. Csárdi, watch your language.]] Yes, you are. I just want to say that in 2019 the President of this House is László Fat. He is the leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, so he is not such a 20th-ranking little party function, no, he is the leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Péter Harrach. But here we have Béla Turi-Kovács, János Fónagy. I remember it wasn't very long ago when Rózsa Hoffmann served as State Secretary for the Orbán government. But we are the same way with János Martonyi, and to this day, let's face it, György Matolcsy is the president of the Hungarian Central Bank. What are we arguing about, my happy fellow Member? ! He's talking about the Socialist Party succeeding MSZMP. I would like to ask you with great respect, however, and turn to my fellow Member in DK about the real estate that DK received from the state when it was founded. [[Zsolt Gréczy: None.]] Or I'll ask... [[To intervene:]] I wanted that at the end. [[Defiance.]] Or I'll ask the representative of the Dialogue about the real estate he's been given to form the Dialogue as a party. Or I could ask myself whether we LMPs were the real estate assets we were given to form the party. But I can ask you, continuing the line, what real estate assets Fidesz received, for example. [[Happy to interrupt István:]] And so is the MSZP. What we're talking about here is a big scolding of the Socialist Party, but you were also the winners of the change of regime through real estate assets. So you can use big words here. [[Noise, interruptions.]] My happy fellow Member spoke of the fact that he was chased by the police in 2006. And I would like to tell you that, in light of this, it is particularly disgusting and particularly unacceptable to have the police action we have experienced in the City Park. There is a video of two or three members of the forward marching police line, in a peacefully protesting crowd, striking back with elbows while marching. One of them hit my rib, which is why I remember it so accurately. And when I ran into this video a few years later, I thought, "My dear fellow Member, is that not disgusting after 2006?" Yes, I do. 'Cause what I said to you in the Agent Law debate is not your problem with the Socialist Kádár system, '56 that you don't like what you've done. The only net problem they have with him is that you didn't sit in power. You weren't the owners of the power, but otherwise, your methods, your styles, they don't differ in anything. Let's face it. [[Márta Mátrai: I reject that, Mr. Csárdi! Look inside, look inside.]] I'm gonna turn around, believe me. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll do what you ask, but unfortunately, the facts don't prove it. [[Happy István: The facts confirm what I have read from Solzhenicin. The president's ringing again.]]
u2019-11-20-395	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's leave the dialogue to the dialogue. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-20-396	I think that if you were to deviate from the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party in style, operation and thinking with just one peasant hair, it should be a visible sign. For example, it could be a visible sign when we're arguing about the publicity of the agent files. On the other hand, they are bringing in a bill that quotes the dirtiest communist times. I didn't say "socialist," I said "communist." You would really wipe your moustache by any faithful communist when you read this. Because you have to see that you understand XX. End of the century. They understood that everything had to be sold. So they're trying to sell the same ideology to this society wrapped in very nice fat paper, fooling this society. There's a reason why, by the way, Fidesz was once associated with, indeed conservative personalities today turned away from Fidesz-KDNP. Believe me, my happy fellow Member, this is not for nothing. As I think it is very strange, it was one of my first experiences, and I spend my first term as a representative, that I was only a few months old, and that first sexist remark was given to me by a Christian Democratic congresswoman. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true! I can't! Defiance.]] There's a video footage of him. [[To intervene:]] I don't think so. My fellow Member Böröcz had a good hour to comment, but now I have the opportunity to respond. You know, Congressman, the set of problems that you have outlined to me, and here you have outlined to the House, can be divided into two, because Ákos Hadházy showed up at the pulpit two signs, which I think is all right, and it is in the freedom of expression. It doesn't hurt me to have someone else's opinion. What you did back here is unsuitable, and I think it's to be rejected. There is no debate between us, but I think that, as my fellow Member Böröcz said, this bill, which lies before us, was inspired by the movements of Ákos Hadházy at the pulpit. [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] which, I think, on the one hand, does not describe the functioning of the whole House, so it is neither reasonable nor logical to draw such a conclusion from it, and on the other, I think that everyone should be responsible for their own actions. I'm generous, I'm not afraid of this law, because I think I've always found the sound and style that I could use to express even my scratchy opinion. At the same time, I also think that he spoke of consequences and said that these activities, as Mr Böröcz said, were the result of this bill. My question is what will result from the Fidesz-KDNP activities that cause this House to be unworthy. I have one more question, because one of the biggest problems with this bill, which lies before us is that rubber rules and subjective judgment are basically the whole thing. I would like to ask my fellow Member, Mr Böröcz, as rapporteur, what guarantees are there in the law that the same weight will be judged for the same kind of violation. So where are the controls? Where's the guarantee? [[6.40]] Because what we saw at the House Committee meeting was that the Speaker weighted the activities involved in the situation in a very different way, and László Kövér saw that the assault that practically tried to hide and rip the boards out of Ákos Hadházy's hand was worth 50,000 forints, although there was no such thing since the change of regime, while the expression and obscenity were worth 330,000. So my question to the authors is what guarantees this law has in relation to the fact that we will experience a unified view between pro-government and opposition representatives. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-397	Thank you very much, Congressman. A 15-minute comment by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi.
u2019-11-20-398	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I get to it, let me say a few words about how Fidesz is, on the one hand, like MSZMP. I think there is a big difference between that and that, on the one hand, in a party-state world, the party does not have such membership, in the Kádár system, the party had 850 thousand members in the last years, but here you have supported the entire administration and administration. And there wasn't so much wealth either, and it's an immeasurable corruption that gives the politicians an incredible way of personal wealth today, too, through members and stooges close to the Fidesz party. I would rather say that Fidesz, my fellow opposition Members, is a neoconservative, Christian, authoritarian, neohorthysta system if I had to give a definition. And, of course, in the Kádár system, there has been a very large social rise, whether you like it or not, from the three million beggars, from servants to skilled workers. Now the skilled worker becomes a maid. So that is to be noted in any way, without wishing for it back, because as a Democrat, I would like to make a democracy so that everyone can find its calculation in it. I would like to say to László Fat: László Fat was not an MSZMP member. László Fat's father and grandfather may have been party members, and I believe he was party members. László Kövér worked at the Institute of Social Sciences of the MSZMP KB, so he was not as oppressed as many people would normally like to say. It was not so oppressed that the then Soros office, which could have been inside the country, specifically sought the young resistance and began to train them and others. So, in a sense, the last years of the eighties were more free for foreign NGOs inside than the current system, by the way. That's it. I would like to refer you back to an earlier stage, not only because you are the mother of knowledge, but there have been many international examples in the debates, but my good fellow Member has also quoted a lot from it, from the European Parliament. I would like to make it clear that international examples are popularly referred to, British, German, French, we have now heard the examples of the European Parliament, we have to understand that sanctions are being applied there, that is true, but there are sanctions, while fully guaranteeing the rights of opposition representatives working there. Here in Hungary, however, the rights of Members have already been undermined in many respects, they have been placed within a very tough framework, and they are now preparing for this once again without precedent. So I also commend this to my colleague Mátrai Márta, who said that we do not understand what she is saying. Yes, Congresswoman, we understand crystal clear, and I have listened crystal clear to your sentences, your words. You must also understand, Congresswoman, that such sanctions can only be applied, ma'am, if all opposition rights are otherwise granted on a basic basis. [[Márta Mátrai: It has always been insured...]] You know that's not true, Congresswoman. In my previous speeches, I said that if I had time, I would list it again in detail, but our whole night was about the fact that in all respects the loss of the authority of this House has often undermined Members' rights and the right to speak. In addition, the entire house regulation, the removal of the detailed debate from the plenary session, and the tightening of the committees were at all adversely affected by the leeway of its representatives. It's amazing, it hasn't been that way before, and you know it, ma'am, because you've been a congressman a lot longer than I have, and you've had the powers granted by former politicians and governments. I would like to say in this House once again that we have rights in which you could have worked before. I would like to add that you have requested the threat of Lajos Korózs, who said that this will all be over someday. That's right, a politician who gives his head to a politician knows that every day, when he looks in the mirror, he shaves or makesup that the political world is so that it's over. We live our lives from four to four years. Nothing lasts forever, even the most authoritarian systems somehow run out. And the fact that you have taken this as a threat has demonstrated to me in my earlier comments that the parallels with the Horthy system and the parallels with the then limited parliamentarism have proved that you do not tolerate the political transition economy. And that's the point, you're driven by total flight and fear of being relieved, and you're scared when the opposition gets some room for manoeuvre or succeeds. I do not want you to change the media law, the electoral law; the full absorption and use of the previously independent bodies, which are supposed to be controlled by the state, as a club, either over the parties or over other institutions, from the change of the assembly law, I could say the total dissolution of the system of Constitutional Court, judicial independence, brakes and balances. But I could start with the prosecution, which is basically one of the strongest pillars of your system; unexploring corruption cases. So I could tell you what you've done to prevent detachability. And they do faithfully follow, specifically, and committedly, the sentence of István Bethlen that the opposition can at most criticize, but we must do everything we can to ensure that they never, ever get to power. You follow this policy and act in this spirit. They do not consider the opposition to be a partner. This is also an important tool for political communication. The Prime Minister, when he does not respond substantially to Members and behaves in a condescending, degrading manner, personalizing, not responding substantially to social and economic policy professional questions, but attacking the parties, these are well-established political tricks, and there is nothing wrong with that, and this must be taken into account. If the Prime Minister treated his political opponents as partners, he would not be able to ignore them and put them out of the system. So basically he says it's not worth voting for the opposition, because they're not, they can't get a word in, they can't replace the current power. That's the whole point of this whole thing, that's his policy, that's history. And that is also the cause of the Prime Minister's non-negotiation, he does not regard as his challenger the current Prime Minister's candidate on the opposition's part, but now the candidate for mayor's office has not been engaged in a debate. This has now struck back, and you are right, Mr István Tarlós, when he said that there should have been a debate, because he simply avenged himself, and people thought that this was not the way to behave. The aim is to silence the opposition, as the word has been arbitraryly removed several times, to tighten the mouth lock even tighter, to tighten the control. This, of course, continues to erod the system of brakes and counterweights mentioned earlier. And we can't help but mention that there are nearly 3 million people who disagree with you. I am not saying that the person who voted for us, because it is possible to mention the 1.6 million voters in the municipal elections, but I always start from the parliamentary elections, which was about 52,6 percent of the Hungarian voters did not vote for you, and you know it. Only if the opposition had been united, as has now been achieved in the municipal elections... and believe me, I will do everything in my power to re-establish these party political conditions so that we can ensure that the majority of the country can be replaced. You know that, which is why you're talking about re-introducing a registration facility. This could not be introduced earlier, because if my memories were not wrong but please correct me, it was Máté Szabó who turned to the Constitutional Court, and then István Stumpf who first confronted Viktor Orbán that this could not be done. But at the time, the composition of the Constitutional Court was different. Now that's changed, too. [[6.50]] At the same time, they want to abolish the compensation of the winner, so they began to think with the opposition's head that, yes, cooperation and cooperation are very dangerous to you. Why wouldn't it be, because that's what Fidesz did? It took Viktor Orbán 10-12 years for a camp, under the flag, to round up the Hungarian right, as Vice-President knows for sure, because you were a member of a party that joined the Fidesz at the end of the day - MDF, KDNP, small owners, MDNP, and at that time was MIÉP. In essence, Orbán has taken this policy in government and opposition to unite the Hungarian right, and this has been so well done that I say to myself that, besides another electoral law, this would also be a huge advantage closed by parentheses. Summa summarum, you see, you have a very good political sense, an extremely routine Prime Minister who has been through a lot, has won many elections, has lost, and is very well aware of history, is an informed man of what you need to do in order to fully share essentially a fragmented, polarized opposition. That's what controls you on all levels, and that's why I can't believe the words you're saying here that we want to make peace, believe what we want, and that it will apply to us, and yes, the municipal law will also apply to us, otherwise they'll consolidate the Fidesz self-governments by name, by hand and by hand, please, who do they want to see as a bird or what kind of bird in this House? ! So, just so we're clear, things aren't as you say. So summa summarum, I cannot believe that you want to consolidate, because you don't want to, because you wouldn't behave like this, because then you would obey my fellow Member Gergely Arató's request and his proposal to withdraw this law from what Ágnes Vadai said, and then try to reach a common understanding in the spirit of consensus, democracy, civil behaviour and parliamentarism, or at least accept the amendments that we are submitting to the law, but nothing at all, but nothing is accepted. Please, you will pay the price for this. By the way, I am a consensualist, but there is a saying that I always repeat to myself: of course, gestures must be made, but let's keep the powder dry. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-399	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Let's do the dialogue, Congressman Bence of Tordai.
u2019-11-20-400	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I quote Viktor Orbán. In 2012 exactly on 5 November in this House, Tamás Harangozó said the following words to his immediate question, a literal quote: "In the eighties I did not fight dictatorship, but I fought against those who did the dictatorship. This sentence of Viktor Orbán, however, drives a man to think further. So if the eighties were so dislikable about the period you called communism, which is to be historically accurate, it was a state-socialist arrangement, so if he didn't like the eighties so much, but he didn't have a problem with the arrangement, but he was attracted to the totalitarian system, to the people who operated the pulsating dictatorship, then we have to think that if it was an honest self-religious confession, that he was attracted to such authoritarian arrangements as he was young Titan in the eighties, as the leader of KIS, to the centralized, the more totalized leadership, and in fact he didn't want anything else than to sit in his supreme decision-making chair. I obviously didn't see that at the time, but there are many who claim that they have already seen this power mania, this dictatorial tendency, on young Viktor Orbán. At the same time, I am not saying that by now Viktor Orbán has built a dictatorship entirely according to his own taste, that there are external conditions that prevent him from implementing this, that may be on the opposition side, but I think that we are not living in a dictatorship, but we are living in a hybrid regime, or we are living in a competitive autocracy, where we are, there is a multiparty parliament, but we also see that this is very far from the rules and functioning of truly functioning, unmarked, real legislative liberal democracies. If we are to be very precise, this is a right-wing populist, authoritarian state capitalism that you have successfully built in recent years. The ideological content of this is important, this right-wing or far-right-wing populist content is important, because your important representatives are either feeding on Miklós Horthy, or they are cheering on Tisza, about whom my fellow Member Harangozó told me what kind of person he was and what kind of politician he was, and I do not think Horthy should be listed for a long time the crimes against the Hungarian nation that ultimately resulted from the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people, the misery of millions of Hungarian people and the suffering of the entire Hungarian nation. So if you have politicians that are so important to Horthy, if you're conducting xenophobic, inciting campaigns that you've been conducting against refugees since 2015, then I think it's really just a question of whether it's a radical right-wing populist or an extreme right-wing populist policy. There is no question that this is an authoritarian authoritarianism, where there is no meaningful counterweight of the single person leader, there is no man who could go against Viktor Orbán's decisions in Fidesz, and of course, as the two-thirds majority, the opposition does not have the means to exercise social control within the legal framework, it is social pressure alone, political pressure that can discourage Viktor Orbán and his regime from the most serious abuses, violations and repressive practices. It is also very important that this is not just a political system, it is a political-economic system, it is a state capitalist system where this state is actually run by a state party. Fidesz and its related oligarchs, stromes, relatives, friends, business partners are those who dominate more and more sectors, more spheres and more sectors of the Hungarian economy, eat them day by day, week by week, month by month, and year by year, because we have seen that the sectors that are not characterised by the presence of capital-powered, capital-powered multanative companies, have actually started to dominate them without exception, or this process has been completed. In Hungary, everything that is either related to government orders in some way, or is now subject to state regulation, has become the subject of this political-economic acquisition, this state capitalism building, in which Viktor Orbán is very prominent through his strómans, Lőrincen Mészáros, Garancsin, Tiborcz and others. [[7.00]] And if we look at the direction, the policy, the example followed by Orbán and Fidesz in this authoritarian system building, we can see that it is long ago not turning west for examples, it has long since studied as once a Soros scholarship, how successful Western liberal democracies work and how good practices could be taken from there, even if it comes up in order with some compulsive tone to put a European example similar to that of every bad bill, completely out of its social and political context. So he doesn't go there, he doesn't go west for examples and good practices, he goes east, and he has new friends like Putin, Erdoğan or the Chinese Communist Party, or the leaders of the Kazakh and Azerbaijani dictatorships. And from this point on, it is understandable that any change that we see in Hungary points in this direction, by tightening the house rules, by tightening up the possibilities of the press, limiting its presence in Parliament, by withdrawing the powers of opposition representatives, and by aggravating the sanctions that can be imposed on them, by reducing the possibility of social control, transparency, all points to the fact that, in the heart of Viktor Orbán, he would build such a system of Putini, Erdoğani. The question is how far he can get on this path, how long we let him make Hungary more and more alike to such authoritarian or dictatorial regimes. I think that, on the one hand, there is a perhaps not so sharp, not so strict line that our membership of the European Union represents in practice, and which still sets certain limits for Viktor Orbán's policy, but more importantly, there is a social and political resistance here which says that so far, and no more. Viktor Orbán and his small clique are very good at political tactics, but they are not good at real statesmanship, transformations that look to the future, which are in the interest of the nation; in any case, this power tactical game was good for them, and they were so confident that by the end of the 2000s, the theory of the central power field was actually put into the public, and then they developed its practice, and it worked very well by the end of 2018 or even spring 2019. So this system works well, and it can go on to this dead end, or it can slide down this sloppy slope towards dictatorships until its political counterweight is formed, and that is what started here on 12 December 2018 when the opposition, recognizing the continuous violations that you committed against us, the housebreaking closure of the debate on the slave law, the Housebreaker's negotiation of the almost 3,000 agenda-modifying proposal that would have virtually made it impossible to adopt the slave law, so the experience of these has led the Hungarian opposition to start talking to each other, to start developing a common strategy and to act together. And this joint action was confirmed and supported by the feedback of the streets, the feedback of the Hungarian people, and as democrats, we have given a heads-up; after the small tactical derailment of the EP elections in October 2019, the politically understandable option was set up, the clear alternative to the Orbán regime, which created the possibility for Hungarian citizens wishing to change to serve effectively with their votes the goal they wanted, the reduction of the Orbán regime, and the creation of small circles of freedom, which today are for the citizens of Budapest and the municipalities of many large, small and medium-sized cities. From now on, the opposition knows the recipe, the opposition is preparing to go on this path in 2022, proving its unity, its power, its ability to govern with a convincing offer to the citizens of Hungary, and Fidesz seems to have lost this strategic competition, the structural advantage that has turned the relative majority of so far, the support of the absolute minority, into a two-thirds parliamentary majority [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] By means of a completely fraudulent and tailor-made illegal electoral law. Well, from now on, you are in trouble, and you are not responding to this problem by overrideing your policies so far, not by trying to steer Hungary back towards the European values, according to the values of Hungarian society, according to the declared, clear will of the Hungarian people, but by pushing further on the press and going further into the dead end and pushing the gas even deeper. I am signaling to my fellow Members, who are dear and less dear to the KDNP, that this is neither in the interests of Hungary nor in the interests of you. I think we've already taken you downhill, and I think the Fidesz regime is already on the brink of destruction, entering the hallway of their fall, as my colleague Luke said, perhaps yesterday morning. [[Dr. László György Lukács: James first, James Peti's!]] Then Peter James had this linguistic idea, the point is that the political end of this regime is near, and the only thing that really depends on your decision is how dignified this end will be or how glorious it will be. I wish that this end should not be too ignominious, that we should not witness scenes that neither of us really want to see in Hungary, in order to maintain social peace and, in fact, in the political interest of all of us. I suggest that you consider the arguments that have been made over the last few hours, turn back to the European road, turn back on the path of the rule of law and democracy, consider that the majority of the Hungarian people do not support this authoritarian policy, withdraw the laws restricting the rights of Members, create the institutions of genuine social involvement and social control, and then, overall, bear well, and then perhaps their failure will not be so disorienting that they will have to look back on this period years later, and then perhaps they will not think that we would have listened to opposition colleagues at the time, because they would have done better. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-401	Thank you, Congressman. Two-minute speeches, first by Mr Zsolt Gréczy, DK.
u2019-11-20-402	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The truth is, I'm ashamed of myself for a happy congressman. Relatives, relatives of politicians, to mention and criticize someone with close, distant relatives, is so promiscuous, nasty and humiliating, and after that you're Antal Tiny after Zoltán Pokorni exposed his own grandfather after his own father. So why doesn't the alarm go off? Where's the control in you, really, when you push one of these out of anger? 'Cause now you're telling me because the Communists and the Gréczy... now we know that Zoltán Pokorni had a communist agent and his grandfather was a mass murderer with an arrow, but really, and I'm ashamed to say so, but you're making me do it because Antal Tiny plays. [[7.10]] What does Ferenc Gyurcsány have to do with who his wife's grandfather was, really? What does it have to do with, say, Congressman Böröcz, who apparently, as a young Fidesz, does not know that in 89 one of the mentors of Fidesz was Stumpf István, Vice President of the Patriotic People's Front, whose father-in-law was István Horváth, the last Minister of Interior of the State, the last Minister of Home Affairs of III/III, and the Fidesz was mentored. Now there's so much conspiracy theory and stuff I can tell you about relatives, acquaintances, stuff like that. We should stop doing this, really, Mr. Happy Congressman, this is not going anywhere, this is exactly the bad feeling that drives you. They look over the other side of the horseshoe, and they think they're communists. No, we're not communists. Unfortunately, the Communist successor party is Fidesz. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-20-403	Thank you very much. Happy Congressman István, two minutes.
u2019-11-20-404	The truth is, I thought he was stuck in the forgery of history in 2006 when he tried to explain that Fidesz wanted to shoot protesters, that's where the Fidesz guys were shot, the peaceful commemorative fidesz guys. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Protocol!]] But when it comes to Fidesz being the Communist successor party, even though some of DK's politicians left the Communist successor party, MSZMP's successor party, MSZP [[Zsolt Gréczy: Like Fidesz.]] In addition, Congressman Csárdi is able to compare one or two properties received by the change of regime parties, which they received per party, by saving billions of dollars from the MSZMP into the MSZP by the communist power, don't be angry, face toaster. [[Zsolt Gréczy: None of them became the father's mine!]] I understand, Mr. Csárdi, that you and the LMP have to adapt now to be included in this rainbow mess, but I'm sorry, it's the top of everything. Let's say a party, two real estates, and a billion-dollar MSZMP and KIS, plus a trade union asset, can't be compared by chance. And the fact that you are comparing the communist dictatorship led by János Kádár to today's world, well, don't be angry... do you know that in that dictatorship, if six young people went on the streets together at night, then the police came and slapped them in the face, I'm sorry to say, because they were grouped? [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Do you know that in that system, you couldn't get into parliament, only for pro-state people? It couldn't have been a counter-opinion. ? [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true either!]] Do you know that the people who disagreed have been taken away? Well, how do you compare these two? Today we have been having a democratic debate here for hours, we have been having a democratic debate for many hours, which in the system that you are comparing to this one, you could not have done, there was no such opportunity, there was a consensus on everything. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: This is what we fought against!]] And your party, the MSZP, does not belong to Mr Csárdi, the MSZP is the successor party to this. You can't deny it, successor party. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-20-405	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK.
u2019-11-20-406	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, before I forget, that's the most important thing. I'd like to say hello to the relatives of the United States, but I'm not going to tell them who they are, so they don't get hurt. Tell everyone in the village I respect them, I respect them. But that's not why I asked you to speak, but to have a few more words about the bill as far as possible, although it's like we've gone a little further, and I'm not stopping myself to sort out a little bit of the factual errors. I'll tell you how this relates to the bill. Let us begin by saying that, in contrast to what Mr President said, while we are at it, MDP and then MSZMP were not only the successor parties of the Hungarian Communist Party, in legal terms, if we are already legal, but also the Social Democratic Party of Hungary, and when the MSZP was established in 1989 and the Labour Party was established, it was very clear which tradition the MSZP was taking forward. This is not only thought by the stakeholders, but also by international social democratic organisations. Secondly, the Democratic Coalition is not, in any sense or in any legal sense, a successor party to the MSZP. Indeed, there are many of us who have transferred from MSZP to DK, but most of the DK members were not previously MSZP members, and also members and leaders of DK are members of other parties. Thirdly, although this may be lost in the past, the party fortune had to be accounted for by the MSZMP at the time. This was also required by a referendum, rather unnecessarily, but one of the initiativers of this referendum was Fidesz. This was also a legal obligation. So I must say that this bill does not have any significance in this respect. It's important in one way or another. Because everything you say about what kind of parliament you want, and this is already very strictly part of the bill, what you are saying about what you expect of opposition representatives, because, contrary to what the Member said, they were exactly in the Parliament of the Kádár era, not just the members of the party, it is exactly the parliamentary work that you imagine, by the way, that is exactly the same work in the Kádár era. That's what I was talking about in my keynote speech. You imagine that Parliament's job is to have a good law factory, where legislation ordered by the government and political leadership can be pushed through quickly. The opposition's job, as non-party representatives of the Kádár era, is to demonstrate with enthusiasm that they are not part of the ruling party, but they are supporters of the system, do not argue too much, do not ask too much, behave normally, and always applaud at the right point. I have to say, we're not willing to do that. This time may now be a good time to talk about the details of the bill if we have time to talk about the broader political context here. I would like to justify the statement that many people have mentioned in the main speech, but Mr Csárdi also mentioned it not so long ago, and what Mrs Agnes Vadai has already started in connection with another paragraph: let us analyse what this proposal is about and what risks we see in it, because it is a legitimate need not only to talk about the bill in general, but also to clarify in detail where the problems are. I would like to deal with that part of the bill, although there are other critical parts that deal with disciplinary penalties. I feel like that's what you have in your heart, and that's what I want to do the most. There is no debate between us about the need for some kind of disciplinary order in Parliament. There are examples of this in every Parliament, Mr László Lukács. I would be excited to hear even more examples, if there are, because international comparison is really important. The authors also referred to the wonderful international context. I think it's worth exploring. But that is certain, and in the case of Gergely Christmas and Others v Hungary, the European Court of Human Rights has also adopted a very clear resolution that the disciplinary system may be justified in order to maintain order, especially because it protects the work and rights of other Members against being hindered or damaged by the behaviour of other Members. So let's be clear, we agree, we need some kind of disciplinary action. However, the judgment of the Human Rights Court and common sense also lay down different conditions. One of the conditions is that they should be dealt with in a lawful manner, on the basis of clear standards and on the basis of clear rules of redress. Another condition is not to restrict the freedom of expression of Members to this kind of regulation. The third condition is that the penalties are proportionate. From this perspective, let us look at this kind of regulation. Let's start with 46. With an article! What does this paragraph say? He said that a Member who, in his speech, was obviously unduly dissociating from the subject or repeating his or her own or another speech unnecessarily, or interrupting his or her speech, would disturb the speech or the chair of the meeting to an extreme extent. [[7.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, You may feel that this is a paragraph that is full of rubber rules. It's obviously unreasonably different from the subject. What is obvious and what is unjustified? If Mr Happy Member or Mr Böröcz mentions communism in the debate and Communists the opposite, is that justified or unjustified? Because it's not relevant, that's for sure. And if it's unwarranted, is it obvious it's unjustified or just unwarranted? Then he says he's reciting his own or someone else's speech unnecessarily. What is unnecessary in this context? When does it count as unnecessary? Obviously, if I'm literally saying the same thing, unless I'm trying to retortically highlight a single element, then it's unnecessary. If I am lighting the same issue in another way, is it unnecessary or not unnecessary? Perhaps my fellow Members understand the dilemma. These are essentially arbitrary decisions. On this basis, it can be said for any speech that is manifestly and unduly different from the subject, or that it can be said for any speech that is unnecessarily repeating its own or any other speech. Perhaps there will be time to talk more in a next comment, and now I see that there will be no time, because, moreover, there are no formal requirements for these decisions to be properly substantiated. There is no need to prove the facts and no need to give a meaningful assessment of the actions committed or suspected. So there's no justification. Those who have received such disciplinary punishment over the past few years are one of them, and I am not the only one, they know that there are completely cliché justifications. Let me remind you of 12 December, when we were all punished for having the exact same text in the explanatory statement for everyone, in general, by the Members doing it. He didn't take the trouble, obviously, Mr. Speaker, we don't expect him to do that; he has enough to do, as I see in the press, to say such wisdom, but one of his colleagues, at least to watch the video, and to say that Mr.Arato stood on the stairs on the right, deterred the president from going up to the pulpit. That's all there was to it, because the president didn't show up on that side. But nothing like this has happened, which, of course, means that it was not possible to defend itself effectively against these decisions. I'm telling you now that we've had to turn to an international forum. We look forward to the consequences, but I have to say, I would be very surprised if you would accept this procedure as proper. Let's move on, and one more thing, since we talked a lot about the speech today. What's point (b)? It shall interfere with the speech or the chair of the meeting to an extreme degree. What do you mean, "extremely"? What's the outlier? Who's gonna decide? Will the president's sensitivity decide? Because there are presidents who are very patient in nature, others are seen here in this House as more enslaved and less patient by the fact that there are Members in Parliament. So it's not that easy to judge what the scale is. It's the same with the speech. Mr Böröcz, I see that he is very disturbed by the speeches, and he is obviously quite easily disturbed by an interrogation to an extreme degree. Other fellow Members tolerate this relatively well, they do not mind very much. To be honest, I don't really know what they'd have to yell at to disturb me to an extreme degree. As long as they don't cut hard objects to me, that probably won't happen. I must therefore say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is quite clear that these rules are capable of making any decision at any time. They do not have a description, they do not have an exact definition that would allow them to otherwise be applied in a subjective manner. What's the consequence? You may waive the right to speak. So what doesn't even happen is that there's such a flagrant behavior, you rescind it, you warn it, it's okay. Then, if this fails, you may withdraw your right to speak. He wants it, he wants it, he doesn't want it, he doesn't want it. It may even be extremely inefficiencible, and still, let us say, say, the same comment has been made forty-seven times by the Member, because unfortunately he is one of our fellow Members who only knows his opinion on paper and who has lost or always gets the same paper in his hand, the President warns him, reprimands him, but then decides that forty-six times [[Antal Csárdi: How you don't punish him.]] And by chance, he doesn't punish him forty-six times, because otherwise, he doesn't have an obligation. So it is not a cogens rule, but that if, by the way, I do not repeat and warn and then reprimand him, and this is unsuccessful, he should be sanctioned. No, the President may impose sanctions; if he is in the mood, he shall employ me, he shall not be in the mood, nor shall he employ me. In addition, again, a disproportionate rule goes on to 46/A. However, there is not even a reprimand or a warning in the case of the criticism of the sitting. Mr President, we can all only praise you for your sitting today, and I think you are indeed acting as an impartial, neutral President, but this is not always the case. It is not so easy for a Member to draw the line again between criticising the sitting or objecting to it and responding to the sitting at most to some extent between not criticising it otherwise. That is why this rule is neither good nor proportionate, which allows the President to impose sanctions without a degree, without warning, because it would be right in this case if it were to be a warning for the first time here too. It is quite clear that the President should first indicate that he believes that there is a breach of law or a violation of law or a violation of law. If it is already clear to the Member that there is a non-standard situation and still continues to break the law, the penalty may be justified in this case. What is this sanction, really? There's a very strange rule. There is an apparent remedy, and this also shows the extremely weak remedy system of this law. 'Cause what's going on? He said that he could not speak during the discussion of the same item on the agenda, but he could request a case-by-case resolution of the committee responsible for interpreting the provisions of the house rules. How about this, my dear fellow Members? There is a debate on the Fisheries Act. The managing president considers that which, in any case, would not happen if I had done an interrogation to the speaker on fishing permits, which was precisely the rule, because it didn't disturb the air to an extreme extent. It makes a decision to withdraw the right to speak from the Member in this case, which is if he criticises the sitting, he is deprived of the right to speak, I am about to finish it, I am sorry, and it is possible to turn to the Judicial Committee. What's gonna happen? Are we taking a break until we make a decision? Or in three days, they're gonna say, "I'm sorry, you could have said something, and you could have continued your comment?" Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-407	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocskanyány Kőrösi in a 15-minute time frame.
u2019-11-20-408	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow harvester has very well described the draft legislation that you consider fantastic to be introduced. But, as has already been said by the pro-government speakers, it is very important to have a foreign outlook and to know how house rules work in other countries, in European Union countries and in the European Parliament, what the rights of Members are, and what punishments and warnings they can receive. As my colleague László Lukács began, I would like to continue from there. We were at Belgium, and the House of Commons has already been presented, so I would like to present to the Upper House the possibilities of Members there. [[7.30]] Thus, pursuant to Article 49 of the Senate House Rule, the speaker should not be interrupted unless it is not due to a warning of the rules. If the speaker deviates from the subject, only the President may warn him. If this has happened twice, or if the speaker repeats himself, like the House of Commons, he will be dismissed for the remainder of the debate. The President shall also give a warning in the event of a statement containing a bad intention or personal attack. If the opposition is contrary to the rules, disrupts order, or the speaker speaks without having been given the floor or has been warned that the speaking time is over, the President shall have the opportunity to suspend the recording of the final minutes. No phone calls, no calls, no receptions, no plenary or committee meetings, otherwise the President shall warn the Member. We're talking about Belgium again, so we can have... So I repeat, in the case of Belgium, these are the rules. In the event of disorderly conduct, the President may exercise the following disciplinary sanctions: warning, warning and recording, temporary exclusion of a senator from the debate, exclusion from the work of the Senate and from the building. Once again, no-one senator can appeal a decision to the Senate office. The President of the Senate shall inform the Senate of the outcome of the appeal at a later meeting, if the senator does not leave the building, the procedure shall be similar to that of the House of Commons, except that the senator shall not attend ten subsequent meetings. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Wednesday, 20 November 2019 95/4. Number Parliamentary Diary If the vote of the excluded senator can be decisive in a vote, there is the same possibility as in the case of the House of Commons. If the disturbance is sustained in the Chamber, the President may suspend the meeting for one hour, if calm is restored sooner, the meeting may continue before the end of one hour. Let's move on, because the rights of representatives from another country are worth looking at. Let's see what's going on with Bulgaria. In Bulgaria, Parliament is a single chamber, and Parliament has 240 people. According to the house rules, Members can speak only of the speaker's pulpit, except for the disabled, to whom they give all technical assistance to express their speeches about their seats. No one can give their views on the same issues twice on the same subject. The chairman may call on a representative other than the subject. If the warning fails, you may withdraw the floor. Once again, the chairman shall withdraw the floor from the Member who disregards the specified time limits or who shall continue to speak after the expiry of the time limit, even though he has been called for it to be completed. Members shall not interrupt the President, conduct personal attacks, use offensive tone or gestures against anyone. They shall not threaten anyone, disclose personal information, compromise any citizen's reputation or behave in an inappropriate manner or by causing confusion in the course of the meeting. The following sanctions may be imposed against a representative who has committed a disciplinary infringement: repeated, reprimanded, reprimanded, reprimanded, exclusion from the next meeting, exclusion from up to three meetings. Anyone who subsequently continues this objection in Bulgaria is therefore dismissed by the President. He also reprimands a Member who manifests or threatens in a verbal or gesture in an unworthy manner. The President reprimanded the Member who had already been reprimanded, reprimanded during his speech, and, nevertheless, continues to be a disorderly man. The President shall exclude a Member who, in an offensive tone, disputes the legitimacy of a previous disciplinary measure, constantly or repeatedly interrupts the normal course of the plenary session, and shall vote with the ballot of another Member. The President may exclude from up to three meetings a Member who is offensive about the Parliament or the Head of State, who shall apply for force in the Chamber or in other premises of the Parliament, and shall once again vote with another Member's card. Anyone who has been disqualified from one or more meetings cannot be paid for this period. Each Member may object to disciplinary action within three days of the date on which he or she is ordered to submit an objection to the President. The President may maintain, revoke or change the disciplinary action. Let's move on to another country. Cyprus is next, where there is also one Chamber of Parliament, and the number of Parliament is 56. On the basis of the house rules, Members' absence without prior notice shall be sanctioned by withdrawal of payment. In the event of an unjustified absence from three successive plenary sessions, they may withdraw the monthly payment to cover the costs in rem. If less than one is missing in the previous point, half of the monthly allowance may be deducted. The absence of Members and their justification shall be examined by a committee on house inspection. Missing shall be considered acceptable if justified by reasonable reasons for health, family or foreign travel. Members shall state in writing the reasons for their absence if they fail to do so, the Committee considers that the absence cannot be accepted. The Constitution provides for certain rules of conduct and of the order of the sitting, such as the order of speech. Where the views of the representative differ, the person in charge of the meeting shall give the floor as far as possible to the representative of the opposing view. All the speeches in the House of Representatives shall be delivered from the platform to the House of Representatives. Unless otherwise provided for in the House Rules, it shall be prohibited to interrupt the Member's speech or to personalise a representative who is not related to the subject, both in the House of Representatives and in the Committee meeting. According to the house rules, if the Member deviates from the point of view, the President may again. Members shall not interrupt speeches without the express permission of the President. Members shall attend the meetings in a manner worthy of their post, without disturbance, using appropriate words. The President of the Commission may withdraw the floor from Members who are not or who are not acting in a manner appropriate to the subject matter. Members are obliged to follow the provisions of house rules and to respect the functions of the Constitution and the State when attending plenary and committee meetings. During the meetings, the house, the duties of the Members and the duties of the House shall be treated appropriately. Any activity, action which hinders the normal functioning of the house and any attacking speech against the person of another Member shall be avoided. Well, you can see that there are very serious measures in Cyprus, too. Let's look further at the Czech Republic, where there are two chambers of parliament, in the House of Commons there are 200 representatives, while in the Upper House there are 81 people. The Constitution contains provisions on disciplinary powers of a general nature in respect of both Parliaments. Unless otherwise provided for by law, in the case of offences, the representative or senator shall be subject only to the disciplinary authority of the Chamber of which he is a member. Let's start with the House of Commons, where there are 200 people in the Czech Republic. According to the house rules, the Speaker warns the misbehaviouring Member and may then ban him from the Chamber for the time of the sitting. A reprimanded or banned Member may immediately appeal against the decision to the house, which shall decide, without dispute, to confirm or reject the decision. The banned Member may also vote. The chair may, in addition to Members, lead those present at the meeting out of the Chamber if they behave in a disorderly manner. [[7.40]] The chairman may withdraw the floor from the Member whose comments are not related to the subject or exceed the specified timeframe. This decision cannot otherwise be appealed. Under the house rules, disciplinary measures will be taken against a Member whose speech in the House of Representatives or in the Senate and their organs would otherwise lead to criminal proceedings in the absence of immunity, or who, during the sittings, makes a defamatory statement about anyone. Disciplinary proceedings shall be conducted by the Committee on Conflict of Interest and Examination of mandates on the initiative of the Speaker, but may act on his own initiative. The prosecution may also be sought by the person who has suffered the insult. During the procedure, they shall give the representative subject to the procedure the opportunity to express his views. The representative may appoint another representative or lawyer who shall appear before the committee instead. If a member of the Committee is involved in the proceedings, he shall not participate as a member of the Committee. If the Member is condemned at the end of the proceedings against him, he shall publicly apologize for his claim in a specified time and manner or pay a fine which may not, however, be higher than his monthly salary. The time limit and manner of the apology shall be laid down in the disciplinary decision. All disciplinary matters shall be closed within one year of their being committed. If the apology is cancelled, the committee shall decide on the appropriate means of disclosure of the sanction or the imposition of a fine. The fine must be paid to the Treasury. Within 15 days, the representative shall also have the opportunity to make a written appeal against the sanction, at which point the house itself shall decide, which shall give rise, amend, reject, and call for further proceedings. The case of the loss of office for disciplinary reasons refers only to cases of refusal of oath or the conclusion of conditions in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-409	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next is Tamás Harangozó MSZP representative in a 15-minute timeframe.
u2019-11-20-410	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Rather, in my first speech, I said my opinion on a general basis, and there was also a little historical reflection. I would now like to quote you specifically from the norm text and to make criticisms of some specific procedures and to ask the authors questions, because I think there will be a question on which it would make sense to think in substance how this will work. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Pursuant to paragraph 1 of the Act: The banned Member is obliged to leave the territory of the buildings for which the Office of the Parliament, the Parliament and the Parliament are situated, during the period of the ban, in the territory of the 49/A. Paragraph 4 and paragraph 51. With the exception of paragraph 4 of Section 4 of this Article, he shall not reside or enter there. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Paragraph (2):. If the representative who has been banned by the chairman of the meeting with immediate effect fails to comply with his request to leave the meeting, the upper limit of the reduction in the fee to be ordered against him shall be doubled. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Paragraph (3):. The chairman of the meeting shall communicate his decision to the representative in writing within three working days of the date on which the decision to order the immediate expulsion is given, stating the reason and legal basis for the action. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The duration of the ban imposed by the Speaker shall be 47. § 2 may extend to the extent provided that the first day of the ban is the day of the meeting or the first calendar day following the decision of the Speaker. Paragraph 5 shall also take into account the period between ordinary sessions when calculating the duration of the exclusion. The ban on sittings shall also apply to calendar days between the sittings for which the ban is imposed. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to ask my fellow Members with great respect how this is done. I understand that, even though this is not the case after the disorder in the Chamber or some physical violence, it is possible to take this action in a much wider circle and on the basis of rubber rules, say, as punishment, the Member is desired or wanted to be removed from the Chamber, but what does this have to do with the House of Representatives, let's say, the House of Representatives, where we all have offices, among other things, personal belongings, things, confidential documents, or classified documents? In the event of this law being enforced, you can't go into your own office and pack your things after you're banned immediately? Let's say you can't go in and hand it over to the papers you need to check for national security type C, which no one else in the world can touch? The Chamber, once again, I do not like it, I would not vote for it, but in this concept I understand. What does this office building have to do with anything? What does the office building and the offices provided for our personal use have to do with things in plenary? I'm talking about all of us, obviously it's the same regardless of party standing. 49/A. §: in the event of an open vote, the banned Member may exercise his or her right to vote by delegation at the meeting of the Parliament. The prohibited representative may, for the entire duration of his or her ban in order to exercise his or her right to vote (paragraph 1), give a representative mandate to a representative. At the same time, a Member may adopt a representative mandate for the exercise of the voting rights of a member who is banned. The delegate shall exercise the right to vote in the name and under his mandate of the prohibited representative. The authorised representative shall not be entitled to any other rights of the prohibited representative and shall not be subject to any other obligations. In the event of a secret vote, the prohibited Member may exercise his or her voting rights in a room designated by the Speaker during the voting period. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This law will come into force on February 1, if I remember correctly, as you suggested. Help me! Here in December, in January, this meeting room will be searched, rebuilt? Can you tell me how, at the moment, by these technical means, I could cast the votes of two people at the same time, or a different vote in this Chamber? [[Dezső gullible: Runs fast! On the signal of Zsolt Csenger-Zalán:]] No kidding, Congressman. Now you've shown me that I'm gonna cast my own vote with a button, and I'm gonna wave to the other one. You know that, on the one hand, according to this current system, this cannot be followed and will completely upset the functioning of this House. I'm just asking you practically. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: If your machine doesn't work for anyone, then... the president will ring.]] But, my fellow Member, there's a button line on this line. It is written in this law in the name of the banned Member and according to his mandate, and not in the way he wishes. [[László Böröcz: You can do this, Congressman.]] Now, we've been here a long time, Mr. President, and I'm gonna take a deep breath. What is this answer, Mr. President, that you can do this? What's this, some kind of constitutional pass that's gonna work? [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] Yeah, I'm telling you. What do you mean you can do this? I asked you a question I think you should be able to answer. The fact that we can do this is not an answer, because with our current voting machines one vote can be cast, so I keep it quietly. On the basis of the mandate, it is also possible that I will cast a different vote than the one who trusts me to vote on that issue. It's just a small technical question, I was just asking you if you had thought this through, by the way, when you wrote this fine paragraph, and I asked you that you would be carving this meeting room over the winter break. Anyway, it's nonsense, I think, but we'll be wondering how it's going to work at any time in life, and let's say, in a vote that doesn't have a hundred votes in individual cases, a budget or even a major amending package, or a parliamentary After the week, like this, when 39 laws are being submitted at once, let's say, how can this be solved physically. I think that's nonsense, but if the answer to that is that they're going to solve it, then I understand how serious you are about this issue. But you know that if you vote for anyone else today, if I'm right, it could be a crime. You can't vote for anyone, and you can't stop anyone else from voting. So this is not an incidental question of how this will be resolved transparently, easily, and how will anyone subsequently prove that the vote was taken according to the mandate given by the representative of the sponsor. In the present situation, I just wanted to note quietly that this technical device must be inadequate. [[7.50]] The third such question is the Judge of Gyev, paragraph 51/A., and in this respect, I think that everyone's residual illusion may disappear about the impartial and objective sanctioning of anyone here. 51/A. § I don't read out what kind of fine everyone can receive, how, by what procedure, by which appeal, and then, as usual, the . With the exception of: (paragraph 1), the Speaker of the House, personally the Speaker, of course László Kövér, may terminate the scope of the exclusion or immediate ban imposed by the President in charge of the meeting, exceptionally, on his own initiative, under the authority of fairness, within five days of the imposition of the exclusion or immediate ban. The Speaker shall immediately inform the Member, the Chair of the sitting and the Chair of the Committee for the Protection, Conflict of Interest, Disciplinary and Ombudsmen of this decision. With the decision of the Speaker (paragraph 1), the scope of the measure ordered and the scope of Article 48. Any further measure imposed pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 shall be terminated and Article 49 shall cease to apply. Paragraph 2 shall not apply in respect of the conduct in question. So if anyone has any doubt that László Kövér or Fidesz does not want to, let's say, a leading president, such as an opposition leader, will order a prime minister or ban him from parliament as a Member of Parliament because he deserves it, then here's the paragraph, and the Speaker of the House will immediately, without any justification, override it in his own hands. Amazing! What are you talking about, that this is an objective rule for everyone? ! The Speaker, acting in his power of fairness, can decide that, and you know perfectly well that there will be no appeal against this. And how united and just what has happened so far has been presented by the Hadházy half-karate story. Not only did the Fidesz MEPs, who actually used physical violence, at least physically acted against their fellow Member, receive a fine of 50 thousand forints and Ákos Hadházy a fine of 330 thousand. I think that one point is that everyone in this House has forgotten that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made the first physical quasi-violent act in this House when he started pulling signs out of the hands of his fellow Member. I didn't see him get a fine of up to 50,000 forints. This is a clear indication of how this rule will be applied. But again, that's the scariest rule. So if, by chance, an opposition leader uses this against any pro-government politician, László Kövér can immediately stand down and stop this decision with immediate effect. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that says pretty much everything about what the real intention is. And what I just said about the vote, which I'm writing down, is a few lines, but how it really works, and it would be good if you could answer, or if you didn't, you'd think about it, because once again, I'm sure you're going to adopt this legislation on 1 February. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-20-411	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, Fidesz.
u2019-11-20-412	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We are now at a very long hour of this debate, and arguments and arguments are repeated. Perhaps others are already watching the mediation of Parliament, so I would like to say in the context of the general debate that yesterday's general debate started from 10:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m., where ten people could speak, nine of which were former Members, and one ethnic spokesperson. On the opposition side, seven representatives were able to express their views on T/8044 and H/8042 respectively. The EESC's opinion on this proposal was set out in the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. The seven opposition representatives were able to speak for 180 minutes overall, while the pro-government representatives spoke for 60 minutes by two. I believe that everyone has the democratic right in a functioning, existing democracy to express their opinion. And I think that if we are talking about a functioning democracy, then this regulation has a very important message. This can be summarised briefly by the fact that ugly, obscene speech and disorderly speech are not in place in the Parliament, and, I add, we need real sanctions. I am pleased that the two members of the Jobbik faction have also listed international examples, because these examples show that the proposal before us is in place in Europe as well. If we look at the general justification, it is worth going through a few things, and I would also like to read a few of them because I think it is very important. After all, I see that some of our fellow Members have spoken to the item on the agenda in the last few hours, but we have spent a lot of time in political debate that has nothing to do with the presentation. We spent many, many ten minutes trying to interpret recent history differently. Here we have heard rather freaky interpretations, along with my fellow Members. If I'm gonna put it exactly and professionally, they've been talking so much nonsense, it's pretty amazing. I'm sure I'm going to sit down with my colleagues and make an extract of this, because I think that the reinterpretation of history is quite specific to you, and you're actually doing this style well, just as you can slip and misinterpret our message very professionally. What I would like to say about this is that we are not only from Budapest, but also from different parts of the country. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Me too!]] I think it's very important that your parties, your alliances that the political wind has blown up all over the place, what its first significant steps were. In my country, Baranya County, in the county seat, the DKs and the momentists started by eliminating the possibility of speaking before the agenda! which even László Toller did not terminate at the General Assembly in Pécs, and that the system adopted at the headquarters of Pécs, Baranya County, as part of the political culture, was abolished, that the chairman, as in Parliament, did not participate in the debate. When you want to take part in the debate politically, you hand over the leadership of the meeting to someone else, you sign in and you give your opinion. This one's been stopped, too. In the third step, the possibility of comment was limited in five minutes for a county-righted city. That's you. They're saying something different here. But let's get back to what this draft rule contains. In 2012, the Parliament introduced new disciplinary rules. A summary of the practical experience of the regulation and the findings of principle laid down in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights made it necessary to amend the provisions in a comprehensive manner, so that the proposal contains disciplinary rules, possible sanctions and a new system of redress procedures. It is very important, however, that the regulation itself, the expression of opinions in a body of nearly 200 persons, should only take place in a regulated form, and should not prevent the institution from operating and making majority decisions, as this would render the function of Parliament impossible. What I can tell you is that what they did at the end of the last year, we used to put all kinds of adjectives on each other here, but I really liked such an adjective that I heard that it was a representative of a rape organization that worked in December. [[8.00]] It was quite amazing to see and experience the human and political spirit that we had here in Parliament. And I have to say that they wanted to prevent physically the fact that those Members who had been given the authority of voters in the Hungarian Parliament to legislate wanted to prevent us from legislating, that is, our work that you wanted to prevent. Thank God, by the way, this did not work, but I think that this proposal will be able to handle these situations properly. It is very important that the opposition can exercise its rights in a democracy. It is also very important that you can give your opinion, even if you talk about vegetables. A pro-government representative must listen to these, but it is also very important that the majority decision-making principle does not harm this democratic debate. The Venice Commission's report on the role of the opposition in the democratic parliament, paragraph 147, is also about the fundamental duty of the political opposition to ensure that its function is performed in accordance with, inter alia, the current constitution, the Fundamental Law, civil and criminal law and the parliamentary procedure. Opposition parties may propose amendments to the legislation, but they must respect the law in force as well as everyone else until the amendment. The above principles were also set by the European Court of Human Rights in its judgment in the case of Christmas and others and Hungary. The Grand Chamber said that while freedom of debate in Parliament is essential in democratic societies, this freedom is not of an unlimited nature. Once again, he's not of an unlimited nature. The exercise of freedom of expression in Parliament shall entail the obligations and responsibilities referred to in Article 10 (2) in order to ensure the effective functioning of Parliament. On the basis of this provision, parliaments have the right to act when their members behave in a disruptive manner to the normal functioning of the legislation. Once again, the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights. In view of this, the court considers that there is an overwhelming public interest in Parliament's ability to function effectively and fulfil its mission in democratic societies while respecting the needs of the free debate. The Grand Chamber judgment also lays down the conditions for a fair trial to be enforced in the sanctioning procedure against a breaching representative. The disciplinary penalty shall be duly justified and an effective remedy against the decision shall be provided, in which case the representative may state his position. If we look at the proposal on this, we see that I also quote the justification, taking into account the findings set out in the case-law of the European Commission on Human Rights, the proposal re-regulates the system of remedies that can be used against the legal consequences applied. It shall become two-stage in the case of the application of all the consequences of the review procedure. The immunity committee shall act as the first appeal forum. I think that the operation of our immunity committee in this cycle and in previous cycles should also provide a guarantee that the immunity committee will discuss and investigate these matters with sufficient depth and depth, and I also think that it will make decisions that both the Member and Parliament will be able to accept. Once again, and I would like to stress this, that if we look at the functioning of the Hungarian Parliament since the change of regime, I must say that in general these are extreme situations and extreme conditions that we do not have to expect in an ordinary parliamentary session. And I think that from now on these regulations are very important, because Ákos Hadházy, who has been mentioned many times, called our fellow Member, has taken a level of parliamentary existence that has been unimaginable for the past two to three decades, not only because of his obscene style, but also with regard to his attitude towards the whole parliamentary work. Second, Parliament is entitled to make a decision. In order to facilitate the exercise of the rights of the data subjects, an equal period of 8 days is available for the submission of appeals. The date on which the immunity committee takes its decision shall be the date on which the time limit for the application of the consequences is set, so as to avoid any separation of redress procedures against the legal consequences imposed at the meeting and which may be applied subsequently. This is also a guarantee, a very strict guarantee in this system, in which these disciplinary questions... which I hope will not be very effective, because I trust that, after today's debate, my fellow Members will see that the weight of political arguments should be applied here in Parliament, and not all physical violence and influences, so as to say, prevent the work of Members of Parliament. Once again, I hope that Parliament's debates will be able to discuss our political differences, our faith in democracy and perhaps our differences in the historical overview, and that we do not have to resort to physical violence yet, and that we do not have to further destroy Parliament's authority. Of course, there may be all kinds of legal consequences in this regard, but I think that punishments, both fines and other disciplinary decisions, must be of such weight that everyone really thinks that if, let us say, they reach out to such and similar methods of obstruction, they will have consequences. I would advise you that the parliamentary elections will not be decided between us in the horseshoe, that will be decided by the people outside in the polling booths by their votes, and I would ask you that we try to conduct and fight these political debates here in a European way, in a manner worthy of the Hungarian Parliament; let us try to turn to each other when we can respect each other. Obviously, there will be exceptions here, as in other areas of life. There's obviously going to be some of your seats, and I'm sure there'll be exceptions between those in our seats. Let us try to ensure that we do not try to fight these battles with the wordings that are hurting each other, but that we really try to go through the debate in Parliament on legislative proposals and proposals for decisions in this system of deliberations. I would ask you to think this through. I am sure that this disciplinary system, which we are about to introduce... because we have also heard from the better lady and the gentleman that she is supported by European examples, and I am sure that, if we may have to work in opposition in this system, we are sure that we will be able to comply with these laws, because Fidesz has, for its part, complied with these rules for the last 29 years. That's what I'd suggest to you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-20-413	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Nagy. Two-minute comments will follow; first, Ms Ágnes Vadai, DK.
u2019-11-20-414	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I used to press a button, but it will still be current and I would like to say to Mr Big that he wasn't in the room when I shed a tear about Fidesz-KDNP not having the opportunity to say his own position. You have your own television for your public and your own radio and many, many, many other channels funded by taxpayers' money, so I think that Fidesz and KDNP, as close to my heart as I've missed all night... have been overrepresented in the speech, because even then, I've already indicated that KDNP has just as many voters as its representatives are in Parliament. [[8.10]] I would like to say to Mr Happy, because on 23 October 2006, many people have already spoken about this; firstly, it was an attempt to overthrow the constitutional order violently. Two: I would like to suggest to the Member that he study the material entitled József Debreczeni, "The Autumn 2006" and he will learn a great deal of interesting information from it, but if he does not regard it as an adequate documentation, then read the record published by the Defence and Police Committee and the Joint National Security Committee meeting, and I think he should be interested in Ilona Ékes, who is now head of the Hungarian Women's Interests Association, but he has taken a very active role in moving the mob on the streets of Budapest, or talking to Ervin Demeter, who, if I understand, is the head of one of the government offices; they have a lot to tell you about the responsibility of Fidesz in connection with the autumn 2006. And what Mr. Big... has disappeared again, even though I wanted to tell him, but then he will read from the record, because he once said in a speech that everyone can look back, read what is happening here, and even puppet it. I would like to say to Mr Big, that we are trying to give you these rights and opportunities that opposition representatives will now receive from you, if only for a short time, because we will obviously change, but they will have to exercise from opposition. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-415	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Böröcz for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2019-11-20-416	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to point out to Mrs Agnes Vadai that you are simply afraid of people and were afraid of Fidesz, already in 2006, once again, sending police officers with no identification numbers on the street, and the peacefully commemorating people were beaten up on 23 October. That's what you did. The other is that Mr Arató has already left, but let us clarify a few things about the role of the state party here. The MSZMP had 2641 properties in December 1988; the MSZP had 365 properties in August 1990 and then was somehow accounted for. Either way, 2,300 properties are missing, so hop. Nesz 2000 Kft. You'll have to look around for a part of it, obviously it's been quickly eliminated. Let us be clear, however, that your leaders, the MSZP, the DK, and the former leaders, were those who operated the MSZMP and the communist dictatorship in Hungary by doing everything with the help of Soviet soldiers, a country occupied by Soviet occupation. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Half of the Orbán government was MSZMP member!]] So don't explain that there were a million MSZMP members in Hungary at the time, don't try to explain and explain themselves! It was you, your leaders, the leaders of the MSZP, the current leader of DK, who were involved in the operation of that system and were its leaders. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Me? I was 15 years old...!]] So let me get this straight. The other thing I would like to say quickly is that we have repeatedly said here that we are introducing that, in practice, the Speaker can decide on sanctions. I'm sorry, he's still in charge of sanctions if there's no agreement in the House Committee. So stop acting like we're introducing new provisions, and we're just tightening up the rules that apply to you because you can't behave. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2019-11-20-417	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi will have the floor.
u2019-11-20-418	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not responding to the whole MSZMP thing, because we've clarified what we think about it in an earlier debate. That's what I'm talking about, by the way. So there's a flexible system. They claimed that Hadházy was the reason why this law had to be tightened up. Well, Hadházy could be punished under previous rules, by the way. So it's not true, so he could be hit with the rigor of the law. And by the way, I would like to say it again to my fellow Member, Csaba Nagy, because he once again said why it was that we took a pulpit and we beeped and that nothing caused it. Yes, you can. Let me say this again, because she's the mother of knowledge. They closed the dispute against the law of slavery. They swept down more than 3,000 of the amendments, which we have submitted to you for the 400 hours that you have been working on for the Hungarian workers, to do their part. In addition, the word was removed from my fellow Members in an irregular and unlawful manner. I'm sorry. They left the opposition no other option but to obstruct, to reserve, to whistle, because this has been preceded by a lot of other things that my fellow Members have said, but that is the real reason why you have done this. Doesn't that bother you? Taking the floor from Congressman is arbitrary just because he's tired of running the House, doesn't that count? ! And yes, what my fellow Member Böröcz has said is that Mr Fat decides for himself what it is for... if I say that you lied so much that the dome breaks, then the Speaker can decide to ban me or take away a month's wages, right? [[László Böröcz: Definitely not.]] I'm sure not, of course. Or say, for example, that being stupid is constitutional. Well? Is that what it is? So, you know, all I'm saying is, I said two levels, who's gonna decide that?
u2019-11-20-419	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has also joined the bill and the proposal for a resolution that we are discussing as rapporteur. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, DK.
u2019-11-20-420	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am in the fortunate position that I always get the floor of a normal speech when the number of national representatives starts to increase in this proposal, which, of course, is not because these Members were actively involved in the drafting of the bill, let us say, neither are the original authors, because it is obviously written by someone else. I don't think that the department that many of you said here had it written by some law firm. That's pretty much what's been going on lately. The reason why Fidesz is becoming an increasing number of MEPs and I hope that it will also be on the part of the KDNP, is because there will be no more MPs, and there will always be more and more who will be present here. You may recall, a few hours ago, I was talking about the rapists' organization of parliamentary officials. I would like to say to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, who clearly did not see the debate that, in order to maintain the negotiating order, the 45. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of paragraph 2, the chairman of the meeting may ask the notary or any notary, vice-president or housekeeper in the Chamber to assist in the removal of unlawful conduct. I have set the example here that my colleague Gergely Arató and my fellow Member Bence Tordai are notaries, and let's say, István Jakab, and also, pardon me, Vice-President Sándor Lezsák, as Vice-Presidents, will be involved with the Houses' Lady, and so five of them will be killed by one of the Members. Then I obviously explained the part of the failure of the bill that it is not entirely clear what capacity, perhaps rank, they will use to do so. But there is also a question about the relationship with the Parliamentary Guard. Right now, the Parliamentary Guard, on which the Speaker exercises the rights associated with the administration of the Parliamentary Guard, is the Speaker of Parliament, so it is the Parliamentary Guard that should the Speaker instruct them to take the Member of Parliament out of here. I'm sure you're aware that he has such a special task force, such a representative-twitching force as this Parliamentary Guard. Now, the truth is that there is an amendment in this bill that says that in relation to the exercise of the rights associated with the administration of the Parliamentary Guard, in order to relieve the Speaker of the House, the Speaker has decided that certain management rights may be delegated to the Director General. We have already said, in the original creation of the Parliamentary Act, that it is a little problematic, regardless of the person of the current Speaker, that an armed body is, as a matter of fact, controlled on a political basis from a civilian upstairs, the pulpit. That's not really the case with the Armed Forces. That's what happens here. [[8.20]] But from this point on, it will be even more problematic that some of the powers of governance in relation to the Parliamentary Guard will be transferred to a person, and this will also be independent of the person of the current Director-General, who is not in any legal relationship, in any direction, or in any subordination relationship with the Members of Parliament. It is therefore possible that certain powers will be transferred to the Parliamentary Guard, which, not only is unconstitutional compared to the previous one, will be against the constitutional rights of the Members of Parliament. In addition, the same amendment states and this is very interesting that the commander of the guard can only propose to the Speaker with the agreement of the Director-General on the duty of the guard. I would like to inquire about the relationship between the Director General and the Parliamentary Guard. This is why the season is mixed with the man, my fellow Members, I would like to say this. So, there's an armed force here, uniformed, which is actually under the control of the Speaker of the House or the Vice President of the House, but they're Hst. are covered by the scope of the Directive. Compared to this, in relation to their operation, their organizational and operational regulations, forgive me, but it requires the permission of a civil, public-sector, parliamentary employee, i.e. this will be the solution under the law. The world has never seen a completely strange person with no ties to the Parliamentary Guard have to agree that the text of an armed organization can be submitted to the Speaker of the House. I think it's a pretty big problem, anyway, that you have such a special attraction to all kinds of guards. Crown guard, palace guard, guard, counter-terrorism center, and who knows what kind of guard there is, from the National Bank, we really have our own guards. It's a dangerous road, I think we've signaled this before. But the fact that, in the case of the Parliamentary Guard, persons who are not in any relationship with the Parliamentary Guard are allowed to interfere with the operation of the Parliamentary Guard and its departments, persons who are not in any relationship with the Parliamentary Guard in the burning world are not in any relationship with the Members of Parliament, that is more than worrying. I don't know how they imagined that. What happens when the commander of the Parliamentary Guard makes a suggestion on the text, and once again, the Director-General says, regardless of the person, that this is not good, and then a citizen in uniform starts arguing with an actual bureaucrat? Who's gonna decide who's right? Excuse me, fellow Members, what I know is that the representatives in that part of the horseshoe are good at everything. They can control the army. They can control the guards. But right now, the commander of the Parliamentary Guard is not sitting in the horseshoe. Commander of the Parliamentary Guard, appointed by you or appointed by your leaders, I assume you have only the knowledge of how to operate such a watch organisationally. Then someone will come and I would like to emphasise once again that this is independent of a person, because it is possible for the directors-general to change quickly, then with some kind of world-saving plan, and he says that he thinks this is how the guard should be operated, that he thinks it should be in such a uniform, that these weapons are needed. And how does a person who's never seen a law enforcement agency before in his life know that? I'm telling you, in addition to my great sorrow, István Jakab and Sándor Lezsák, Bencé Tordai, Gergely Arató and Márta Mátrai, will be put in such an unworthy position, among other things, that their task will be to wrestle representatives here, under the orders of the President, a guard of which he knows who will determine and who will control it. I don't know if when they made these rules, they thought it might be such a consequence of your decision. For example, while I did not mention this in my previous speech, it is possible to exempt the determining notaries, vice-presidents and the housekeeper from the sanctions and legal consequences set out in the Parliamentary Act, but I would like to ask you to consider that they could be exempted from the sanctions or consequences of Btk. and Ptk. Imagine the situation, and I will now find another vice-president, János Latorcai and Csaba Hende, vice-president Hende, and, say, Lajos Szűcs and István Tiba, they will be instructed by the Speaker to crush one of the opposition representatives here, because, according to the Speaker, the negotiating order must be restored. And imagine that one of you is a little more intense, and is making moves that he is experiencing as a threat to the person he wants to crush. Imagine the situation where the congressman falls, something happens to him. Then who will bear the consequences? What happens if you get a healing injury after eight days, which is already the case of aggravated assault? They thought about leaving it to the officials of the Parliament... [[The sound will be interrupted for a moment.]] You didn't say anything before. I'm sorry.
u2019-11-20-421	Good.
u2019-11-20-422	It's a technical problem. I hope that this is no longer meant to silence us. So, not to mention, since there is not a single woman among the notaries and vice-presidents of the Parliament, and I know that some of the pro-government representatives are specifically looking for the opportunity to tell the opposition ladies how? regulates how they intend to resolve this problem. I am quite certain, however, that Mrs Mátrai, Mrs Mátrai, can not be persuaded to regulate anyone here by any physical means or method; I sincerely hope that the other Vice-Presidents and notaries, too. So there are some of these problems here. Here's the deal. Imagine because we've always talked in theory, but I think if we replace it with people, it'll be more figurative and understandable. Imagine that these Vice-Presidents and notaries will be given the task of the Speaker of the House to act here with opposition representatives in order to ensure the order of negotiations, but also to call in the houseguards. A houseguard whose sms can only be presented to the president with the approval of a bureaucrat, and who knows what kind of management rights the Speaker is handing over to him, because we usually find that this type of information is not shared with opposition representatives even at a committee meeting. In general, even the order of the agenda is not properly shared with the opposition factions at the board meeting. So, there's going to be a full legal mess, the consequences of which will basically be suffered by the people the Speaker's orders. And then allow me to put something on here at the end, because we talked a lot about the speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I've studied the bill thoroughly, and I hope you'll help me. Tell me where it is recorded in this bill when the Speaker of the House commits an infringement. I couldn't find a pass like that, but I'm sure they'll help. The dignity of this House has been spoken of here by pro-government representatives, and I think it is quite right that a Member can be punished for violating the dignity of this House. Members can be punished for a more obnoxious or offensive comment. I would like to ask you that when the Speaker of the House, from up there on the pulpit, regularly taking part in the political debate, qualifies opposition representatives, opposition factions, he will be sanctioned. I wouldn't take the liberty of doing it myself, although I would be able to put together a very nice line of sanctions for the current Speaker, but for the present one specifically. But I would like to know that he, who is most responsible for preserving the dignity of this House, will be punished. The current law doesn't tell us that. [[8.30]] What will happen if the Speaker illegally sends János Latorcai and Sándor Lezsák, Gergely Arató and Bencé Tordai to us? What will the consequences be? Who's gonna wear it? Who's gonna take the damages if you have to pay? From the presentation, we have already seen clearly that the European Court of Human Rights will not stand this punishment for the trial of justice and the rule of law, which has been put together here in connection with the laws. It's not a case like this. By the way, I would like to tell you that it is very sad that this proposal includes Christmas and others versus Hungary. Do you imagine what it is like for a Member of Parliament, who swears to defend his country at all costs, to represent citizens, to go to the European Court of Human Rights against his own government? Can you imagine what that's like? It's really bad. We don't want that. But you, and obviously the Speaker of the House, are the ones who impose these penalties... And it's a very nice appeal, because you can go to the immunity committee, if the immunity committee doesn't decide, then you can come back to Parliament. Fellow Members! In these cases, this is not an appeal forum, it is quite obvious. It is quite obvious that there is no appeal. But my question remains: who will punish us? What legal and financial consequences do you have if you impose many of these penalties, and they all fail at the European Court of Human Rights and Hungary has to pay compensation? So you're gonna deduct it from your paycheck? What I can tell you, fellow Members, is that if we tabled such an amendment together, I would definitely vote for it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-20-423	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. In the next 15 minutes' time frame, MEP Dezső Believing, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2019-11-20-424	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are all in a position to be part of quite a lot of organizations in our lives, certainly not members of a different organization. Therefore, we know precisely that each such organisation needs some form of operating policy, at least an organisation that gives itself something. I think that Parliament is also such an organization, which is a serious organization, and it needs the regulations governing its operation. The question is how to create this. There are different ways. One is that someone is sitting down, perhaps one of my fellow Members mentioned that there is such a law firm, which is great at creating similar rules and other proposals, will and will write this idea. It is also possible for a member or some members of this organisation to write this policy. Then there is another possibility when more people are involved in this work. Each has its advantages and disadvantages. If it is made up of a narrow circle or a person, it will be done relatively quickly, since it will reflect only his opinion or his ideas. The other is a little more tampering, more work is needed, but obviously it is possible to create not only one organization's ideas or one person's ideas. This is the case when different groups or members of an organisation are invited to participate in this creative process. Here, it is possible to ask the opposition parties how they were able to participate in the preparation of this. In my opinion, in no way. So obviously it cannot contain our ideas and our thoughts about the operation of this entire organization in any way. This could lead to several things. Then, if you do not ask those who make up this organisation, in this case, the Members, then their opinion will not appear. Obviously, they can give this opinion when we put it on the agenda here. Therefore, I think it is no wonder that this debate has been going on for so long, because the majority of those sitting here, the Members of Parliament, are people who have an opinion on things. He also has an opinion on this, so obviously he would like to tell you what he thinks about it. This could have been prevented if the various parties, groups and representatives of this organisation had been asked about how this could be properly created. Obviously, if this had taken place during the preparatory work before the meeting, there would have been an opportunity for a much shorter meeting where this could be discussed briefly. You've missed all of this. So, in my opinion, it's a shame to be surprised that there are so many opinions now. In fact, it was almost legal for Members to give their views on this. So, so much for preparing this whole thing. I think that I think it is right that those who have prepared this regulatory provision did not think well, and the way they did so was wrong. The consequences of this, and I consider them to be the ones to bear. For some specific cases, some opinions. I myself am a notary of this House. Right at the beginning of this rule system, they're dealing with notaries. In particular, it says, in particular, that the notaries, and even all the Vice-Presidents and notaries in the Chamber, so that not only the person who sat up on the bench, but also all and the janitor must assist the President in maintaining the order of the meeting in the future. If they refuse to do so, the Parliament may release them from office. Let's just say if I'm a notary who's in control of the rules and wants to keep what's written here, I've got a few questions on my mind right now. What tasks can I get as a notary in this matter, or perhaps also as a vice president, if you are in the room and someone is breaking the law? The person who is being chaired is asking me to tidy up. But how do you imagine that? Because I'd like to prepare for this task. [[Gábor Bányai laughs: That's good!]] Should I start going to the gym, or should I go to this cage fighter training? I weigh 110 kilos, so in this respect it is not bad, so you can find someone suitable for this task. That's one way to do it. The other is that I don't need any of these physical qualities here, I don't have to work out, maybe raise weight, because they give me a taser. Or how do you imagine this whole story? Am I looking at House Marshal Mátrai, attacking someone and trying to stop her from breaking this mess? I can't recall this image, I find it unimaginable. So there's a provision that we don't know, I guess, not just for me, for you, how you want to keep or enforce that. It may even be a problem if someone shows up with a sign and I have to go and take it. How am I gonna do that if he doesn't give it to me? So we're gonna have open physical violence in this Parliament room? So let's think about this. We've written something down, but we have no idea what that means. I've been talking to a few of my fellow clerks, everybody's been squeezing their shoulders, and you have no idea what this whole story is about. Moreover, not only the notaries, but also the Vice-Presidents, but also the large lady, are subject to this rule. I think we shouldn't write down something we don't know what it means. Someone should answer that question, how do we think that is? I'd like to follow the rules, but I have no idea what that means. I think that's the wrong way of saying it. I'm not sure, let's just say the idea is good, but we need to figure out how and how we can be regulation. There is a serious demand for it, and there is a constant talk by government representatives that the rules must be followed by everyone. I'm ready for it, but I don't know what the rules are that I'm supposed to follow. And it's not just me. You should think about that. Thus, it is certain that it should not be accepted; especially if it is threatened that if it refuses, the Parliament may exempt them from their duties. I'm not obliged to do anything, even if it's written here, which is contrary to other laws. Even in the army, that's the way it is. So this is completely incomprehensible, incomprehensible, and it requires a serious explanation of what these two sentences mean. And how many of these two sentences are there in this entire draft? [[8.40]] My next point is this: there are serious sanctions against the failure of a sufficient number of people to attend a committee meeting. We need to think about operating order. There's a plenary session, I'm sitting up as a notary, and they're calling the Legislative Committee of which I'm a member. It's not a unique case, it's going to be today, there's a legislative committee meeting at 13:00, and I'm a notary until 2:00. I respectfully ask how to solve the problem. I want to be a rule follower, but I can't. They're threatening to take 33 percent of my fee away, while I'm trying my best to follow the rules. The rules are not well-designed or committee meetings cannot be held when there is a plenary session. So either the practice is wrong, or the rules you make up are not right. I think maybe we should think about it, because the person who wrote it down may not be aware of how this is going on. I have seen many things in the draft law or draft legislation that contain subjective elements. They describe that in case of non-issue comments there is no need to warn you, the penalty can come right away. Or someone's got a flagrantly offensive attitude. And my favourite thing is that the guard can reasonably assume that someone will engage in an activity that destroys authority. So these are absolute subjective elements. Again, I say I want to be a rulemaker. There is not a Vice-President of Parliament who is taking part in the chair of the sitting. But they're all different personalities, not the same. Then do I always have to adapt to the personality of that leader? Obviously, the use of a given term will not be judged in the same way. As a joke, László Kövér, who is famous for conducting a very liberal meeting, certainly does not respond to a question in the same way as István Hiller, who is extremely hard-working. But I always have to consider who's in charge of the meeting, and that's how it's supposed to be? Training shall then be carried out on what and how the current vice-president in charge of the meeting accepts or does not accept on this issue. So I hope you understand what I'm saying. There's a lot of rules that are hard to follow because they don't say what they're supposed to follow. In addition, there are subjective elements in this story, which obviously cannot be judged uniformly. That's why I think that, as it says, and as you think, it's definitely not good. The following is that there are a significant number of paragraphs that are obviously created as a result of a single individual decision, which is also extremely subjective, but its relevance cannot be investigated. I'll give you an example. Once upon a time, they may remember that members of the Socialist Party should not sign it, John. On the basis of this, penalties have been imposed. We didn't really get a hit on who's holding the board. As a notary, I could see that from there. In all cases, it was not the one who actually held a sign, but the one who didn't. And there's no way to review that. Someone made a choice, and that's it. The colleague mentioned that the immunity committee was here, which was set up specifically for this purpose, and that it could be clarified on the immunity committee. Then let me tell you, the immunity committee refuses to deal with such issues, simply the suggestion that we should look at the footage of the event, and the immunity committee refuses to do so. So you know what happened, and who did it, no one's looking anywhere to see if the person who made the decision knows exactly what happened or what happened. By the way, in relation to the events of 12 December last year, I can give you, like, six examples of a completely wrong decision in this case. Obviously, you go to the European Court of Justice and other places where you look at it. The bigger the deal is that someone gets punished for something they didn't do, and let's just say it's signed by a Speaker, and it's embarrassing, and it's not an example. There is no real forum for appeals, there is no forum where it can be debated that it is indeed what is being accused of. So, overall, I would say that this draft contains a lot of anomalies, and I am sure that this should not be accepted. I think the Parliament should discuss this more often. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-20-425	Thank you, Congressman Dezső Believing. I give you the floor within a 15-minute time frame, Mrs Márta Mátrai, Mrs Mátrai.
u2019-11-20-426	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the floor. I will certainly not take advantage of time, but there have been some thoughts that I would like to respond to. First of all, I would like to mention that we have been discussing this draft law or amendments for nine hours, and I must say that during that time we could have done it a long time ago, but there have also been a great deal of unnecessary talk, which was just a waste of time or a waste of time. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that the Fidesz fraction and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association are in favour of the amendments tabled. The amendment of the law, my fellow Members, does not want to silence us, but to lead opposition behaviour into a civilised environment. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] There was a discussion here from my colleague Ágnes Vadai and from several opposition representatives in the section of the law on the maintenance of the negotiating order and the disciplinary authority at the meeting of the Parliament, in which section 45. §2 were tried to take a look at it. I believe that, with regard to the amendment of the law and the multitude of opposition speeches, we can say that it has never once been said by the opposition that the Honourable Parliament, yes, will pay attention to maintaining the order of the House, not to acting in violation of house rules, and not to a speech capable of disrupting the functioning of the House. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if someone thinks that way and starts his work, then the sanctions that are now written down because you forced him to do so will not happen. But I'd like to look back at what Agnes Vadai said. It is a situation where I am convinced that it will not happen because it refers to paragraph (2), paragraph 45. I do not know why, so I would like to start with this, which contains guidance. 'Cause he says 45. § 1) that it is the responsibility of the President of Parliament to ensure the smooth conduct of the sitting and to preserve the authority of the Parliament, in which he shall be assisted by the notary and any notary, vice-president and housekeeper in the Chamber who has requested him to maintain the negotiating order. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] If we stop here, there is nothing wrong with it, because it is clear that the President, either President László Kövér or President Hiller, whoever is sitting on the bench, if he sees something that disturbs the order of the Parliament, hinders its operating order, he will first try to establish order, and if for some reason he does not succeed, he will, of course, ask for help. However, we all know that there is absolutely no way that any person asked by the President to use force will be asked to help him restore order to the Parliament's meeting room. I'm gonna crash here on the 2nd floor. Section 2 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation. Paragraph 46/C-46/G is also to be read together, since there is a clause where everyone is asked to do so. Involvement in the elimination of unlawful conduct as set out in § 1. Taxatítése lists the law, and I am not going to read it now, because I do not want to waste time with it, because there is a law in front of everyone, and I ask my fellow Members to read what comes next, and what section contains the provision that, in the event of their violation, the President of Parliament may ask for help in the event that he cannot come down from the pulpit, that we help him, of course, in absolute cultural conditions, and not in the way that my fellow Members have watered here, what sort of order is being made here, which I cannot imagine, perhaps, to the physical extent, between the walls of the House. So I think that this is taking the negotiation process in a completely wrong direction, and there is a law here, which, as I said in my speech, is binding on all opposition and pro-government representatives, if Parliament accepts it, Parliament accepts it. This can be criticized, but I think that everyone should pay attention to it. [[8.50]] Therefore, the country's authority, as I said, can only be restored if there is no obscene speech on the right or left, no disorder, no roughness, so the certification of a civilized, parliamentary representative's conduct is carried out. However, I have to stop here for a moment, because today, during this evening, during the dawn of the morning, there has been a great deal of talk that made the Speaker himself, or the Prime Minister himself, appear in a colour that I think was extremely unworthy of the speakers, and I think I can safely say that he has even violated their rights of personality. Here, however, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that you should beware of this, all the more so and do not take it from me as an invitation that may appear as an insult, since Hungary's Fundamental Law VI. Article 3 of the Act states: "Everyone has the right to respect his private and family life, his home, his contacts and his reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of their personal data and to the knowledge and dissemination of data of public interest. The protection of personal data is then further discussed in this section, but I must say that the universal declaration of human rights, as well as the European Convention on Human Rights, contains the same rules and they are built almost on each other. So I find the speeches that have been made here today to be extremely unfair, in order to say something, to be able to do nothing but try to make the Prime Minister and the Speaker look unfavorable. I ask my fellow Members to refrain from doing so in the future. To that end, I would like to say that many have offended the speaker's disciplinary authority. It is also here in front of me, which my opposition fellow Member has presented or read, the list from Albania to Ukraine, which is listed in this order for many, many pages, shows all countries what he considers to be a disciplinary offence. For example, a serious violation of the Order of the House, a refusal to execute the decisions of the Speaker of the House, obscene expressions, behaviour that violates the Order of the House, house rules. We can go all the way from Albania to the Netherlands, Croatia, the United Kingdom, through Germany, this statement is detailed everywhere, and in any case the disciplinary authority is in the hands of the President of the House, he will determine the extent to which the infringement which the Member has committed forgetting himself and is not worthy of the functioning of the House or of the conduct which he should bear witness to. So I do not see the extraordinary problem that my fellow Members have outlined here. One thing is certain: everyone has to think about what they are doing, and if these different, often very sharp and very unworthy excuses about the draft or amendment of the law are just because you want to make this obscene speech part of the daily conversational style. I, on the other hand, think that this must be prevented at all costs, because in a civilized form of conduct and in a conversation between one another and in the process of talking about the laws, this does not fit, does not suit the Parliament, and likes it or not, it violates the dignity of the Parliament. [[György Szilágyi will be replaced by Dezső Szilágyi in the notary seat.]] I'd like to say a few more thoughts. I think my fellow Member, István Happy, is no longer here. [[Interjection: Yes, here it is.]] The brutality of Gyurcsány in 2006 has been said, which happened in Budapest. All I'm suggesting is that you take out the Balsai report. The Balsai report was discussed by the Parliament, accepted, read anywhere, and anyone who might doubt the events of 2006 and its brutality can read and learn everything. What Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi said to me was that she wanted to have rights like I had before. I was a law-abiding citizen before I joined Parliament before 98, especially after that. I was entitled to no more special rights than to comply with the law, because that's how I learned and how I grew up, and as a lawyer, I'm extremely sensitive about it. However, I would have said the house rules to the Member, which would have defined the rights which the Member is entitled to; it was appropriate to do so before and today, there is interpellation, questioning, but there is, of course, an opportunity for the Member to ask questions in the case of public bodies. But it doesn't go anywhere, it doesn't matter whether it's a company or a media, whether it's a radio or a Hungarian Television. You usually go anywhere by calling, checking in, telling us why you want to come, but at the same time the company or the media manager is obliged to welcome the representative, to be at your disposal, and, of course, to eliminate the disruption of the plant in this visiting session. Finally, Mr Bence Tordai also addressed me. I would like to tell him that you don't have to worry, Congressman. You do not have to worry about Fidesz, and you do not have to worry about the Fidesz-KDNP alliance, all the more so because we have noted that voters in some cities, in the capital, have thought differently in some settlements. In any case, we will find the same connection with the representatives and mayors in the settlement, and, of course, if we have the opportunity, we will support the development of the region. At the same time, it is not true that we have lost the election, because Fidesz-KDNP has won the current municipal election nationwide, and therefore we have a very positive view of the future. Of course, we will look at the mistakes that we have made, and we will correct them, but we will continue to implement the same economic policy, family policy and our ideas and work plans for supporting the elderly as we had in our programme and in our vision at the time of the elections. At the same time, I would even say to Bence of Tordai, as it is likely that he has forgotten that Hungary is on a rising track from 2010. In 2010, the civilian government took over a country on the brink of bankruptcy when, in the elections before 2010, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian voters, said that it was enough, enough of what happened in the 8 years before that. This is when the country came into a situation where we have always tried to thank the country with great humility and respect by a two-thirds majority, step by step and by choice, to put it in a position where we are at the moment, where we can talk about an emerging economic growth, and this economic growth makes it possible to create a system of support, career models with which we want to make the lives of Hungarian citizens, the lives of Hungarian people, and the lives of Hungarian families easier and happier. I think that we will continue to do this work at all costs, we will not stop, no matter how much criticism we are being criticized, and very unfairly, because what has been said here has been extremely hurtful and offensive. So we have an unbroken idea that what we have promised in the election campaigns will be implemented. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.00]]
u2019-11-20-427	Thank you very much. Welcome. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that, regardless of the fact that, on Thursday, 21 November, at 9 a.m., another item on the agenda will be discussed according to the agreed agenda, this will be overwritten by the House Rule. Thus, there is no way to adjourn the present proposal, and this is not happening. Accordingly, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-428	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Our ringing fellow Member asked for our opinion on a technical issue, and he asked for a solution to how to vote instead of the banned Member. Well, there are solutions to this today, because if someone's voting machine doesn't work, they can vote by raising their hands, but there could be a more advanced way to vote with the voting machine on their own behalf, and, say, by presenting a green, yellow and red disc and replacing it. But the XXI. In the century, I think we can agree that a portable wifi system can be solved with three buttons. So I guess we don't have to worry about that. My fellow Member, Csaba Nagy, mentioned an example in Pécs of your opposition engagement in power, namely that the institution of interpellation was immediately terminated there. I would add that the first thing that Tamás Withtinghoff did in Budaörs was that he did not even provide a committee seat for the members of the Fidesz group. Finally, let me say, since you have spoken so many times about a dictatorship, let me say that the opposition is either on the streets or in prison, but not in Parliament. I'm not saying that, of course. Winston Churchill is. I am very pleased that my fellow opposition Members have been here for more than 24 hours now, and we can argue here, and everyone is free to express their views. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-429	Thank you very much. We will continue our work by speaking to Members who have asked for a normal word. Congressman Sándor Szabó, MSZP, please.
u2019-11-20-430	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You're back. I left at quarter to one, but I'm back. At 9 a.m., I would be interested in a new item on the agenda, but of course I am also very interested in this debate, and I have listened very seriously to the voice of the Member on this subject. I would just like to make a comment on the state of the country's economic situation, because Congresswoman Mátrai has also mentioned it. After the Bajnai government, your prime minister, Viktor Orbán, said that the state of the Hungarian economy is basically good, so it is unnecessary to visualize the state of bankruptcy that you had to say at the time. But to comment on the current law, Congresswoman, you know, the problem is that you are so visualizing you and us, and you have said this many times in your statement that we are the bad ones, and you are the good ones. I have listened many times to what you have said: you are the ones who, by the way, break the authority of Parliament, you are the ones who cannot behave culturally, you are the ones who do not comply with the rules of the house, and I can tell you this; but you did not like to say that you are in everything else in accordance with the regulations of the house. I have been a Member since 2014, and my comments in this House, I think that they have always been fair and fair. My comments in this House were primarily of a professional nature. My comments in this House have always been directed towards respect for each other. And, you know, Congresswoman, when you say that there is a place for unnecessary speech here, I'll tell you that if I don't go back to Communist times, I'm going to go to 2010 and until mutual respect for one another, you can make any rules either in this House or on the street. Your prime minister has committed a great crime, and that is to divide society. We got to the point where at lunch, friends' associations, you can't talk politics, because if we talk politics, it's gonna end in a fight. Congresswoman, if you're interested in asking ten people, nine of them will be on your side, if you'd like to ask me if you'd like to tell me which party comes to mind about intimidation, hatred, humiliation. [[Mátrai Márta intervenes.]] This, Congresswoman, is to be tested, unfortunately. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I have always debated professional issues in this House. When the comment starts on anyone's part, I always have to listen to what's happened in the last eight years, and now it's nine years, because now we're in 2019. Why can't you answer those questions because they're professional? I've been here a serialist, a communist I've never lived in that system, a traitor, and I could tell you what else. So you respect my dignity? Then how is it? Are we the ones who, by the way, advertise hatred for billions on billboards, Congresswoman? [[Zoltán Tessely intervenes.]] Yes, Congressman, is that normal? Did you just do me the honor of calling in and yelling at me? [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And then you'll be able to come here with such regulations, so that we'll observe what you're strictly nodding on us here, Congressman, which, by the way, will only justify me, but you don't have to. And you know that's what you like to play on every front. In fact, everything is allowed to you in this country, to those people who, to a similar extent, may represent significantly more voters, although they are less present in Parliament, because your electoral system is unfortunately so unfair, and they are actually not allowed to do anything. So what's this? Double standard? You can do things like this, Congressman, and you can nod that we should be regulated otherwise, but you should also think about what has led us here. Why did we get this far? I, too, am a notary, and I can ask the same question as my fellow believer. I can't be in two places at once. If I have to attend a committee meeting and make a note, which one should I choose? Then I'll be punished. Besides, I want to fulfill my duties as Members of Parliament. Where should I be? Should I sit up there or go to a committee meeting? Who's gonna tell me where I'm supposed to be, anyway? And it could be classified, but I don't want it, because otherwise, we really need to close the debate. Because, fellow Members, let us reflect on the fact that the regulation that you have put before us, or have brought before this House, is not only because we are acting this way, but because you have provoked it, and you have forced us into a situation where such behaviour or style can develop in Parliament. If you make every debate impossible, if you deny us everything, and, by the way, the voters rightly expect us to represent their rights here, then I ask you: what leeway do you give us? Let's think about it, and then we can make arrangements that you want to make now. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-431	Thank you very much. MEP László Hajdu, DK.
u2019-11-20-432	Mr President, Dear tableds, I was a little sleepy because I went home before an hour and came by at 9:00 to discuss today's agenda. I didn't participate in yesterday's debate, I didn't speak to him, but there were a few things I should have done at the time; now I can't relate to anything other than what I've heard here in a few minutes. The thoughts of the housekeeper, which you had to say last night, I thought it would be a solution, because it was relatively converging and making a peaceful sound. [[9.10]] I've been waiting for you guys to come up with a fight for a couple of hours, give it a try, and let's leave this law alone. My word, I felt an offer out of that tone, but now I see we're not there after an entire night's debate. It's like this isn't a parliament, it's not a house of legislation, it's a kindergarten where there's small groups, there's middle school, there's big group. The big leagues teach the middle class, and then they become big leagues; and we are the small groups, how to grab a spoon, grab a fork, put napkins, how to set the table, learn these things. We have this kind of education here, so they think we're preschoolers here. I'm sitting in the House of Parliament in the fifth term, always elected in the individual district. That means I've worn out these benches quite a lot, but we haven't discussed such a proposal on a single occasion. I have no idea what kind of genre this is, what this is we're discussing. At the time, I was also involved in the first amendment of house rules, and I think it was quite peaceful cooperation. It was said last night, and now here in the morning, that there are parliamentary saints and that there are the evils of Parliament. Based on what has been said, we are the evils of Parliament, who are compared to the dignity of this House... There was a long and long argument last night about dignity, and there have been cases of who really violates the dignity of this House, but the real evidence of the dignity of this House is the house rules that we work with. But whatever's written down, it's going to be done by people, and people will fill it with content, even if the nanny and the nanny will decide on us with this kind of kindergarten. So we represent the darkness, and you represent the light. I think we're part of this world right now. This particular election on 13 October has been made many times. There's a debate about whether someone won or lost on October 13th, but if you consider who won and lost with this evening, then this question is very divided in the press and the media. The four hundred and a few media close to the government will certainly be sending out news about this, and that media appointed to three or four left-wingers will tell us something, but we in this House must reach consensus ourselves. As I was saying, I haven't been in the ranks since yesterday as a member of the parliamentary sports club. I didn't quit now, because in the meantime the years have passed, and I couldn't play tennis today, I couldn't be in the tennis department. In the football team, however, for 16 years Fidesz and the then MSZP, there were not so many parties, these two factions gave the teams of the big leagues and small-time football matches. Can you imagine now that we've played 300-something matches together? I also included small-timers and tournaments where one day we had to play three or four matches, and we went to London, Paris, Berlin, not to mention almost all the capitals, and played in large stadiums as a parliamentary team, in things we had never seen before. Together, the football players of the Fidesz Group and together the opposition football players. And I slept in a room with a roommate with fidesz, can you imagine that now? Or we took a car to a stadium in Bratislava, 200-300 kilometers away, with Fidesz and opposition. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Bratislava!]] There's no communication between us. This house rule is gonna fix this, how is it gonna be a conversational relationship? Even more so is a wedge, I think, so it cannot be imagined that an affair can develop that in this House the legislators are talking to each other, not only at Parliament's meeting, but in their spare time, when we went to the village day in each other's constituency, we went to the jasmine days, we went to the wine festivals, we went to many tournaments that strengthened the traditions of the settlements, together. I am only saying this because such an atmosphere has worked between Members of Parliament, and it cannot be imagined today. Women's choir, when women from both sides sang in choir, and some men sang in it. This world was in this House not so long ago, after the change of regime, and now it's the world that I'm trying to say hello in advance, although I'm not a young man to be noticed by the younger Member or to say hello or not. And I'm not saying what the ratio is. So I think, when the posters that appeared in Budapest before October 13th, that the clowns, the incompetents, and the clowns were there, those are not suitable, so this kind of poster caused a scandal all over the city. What is going on here today has been going on for several hours, maybe ten hours, or it has been said that for 24 hours, I do not know how many hours this debate has been going on, this debate is almost pointless, and there is this long debate because we have launched such a separate motion of representatives, which the government does not want to hear, the Speaker does not want to hear, because he is not here. The clients may not be present here, just those who ordered us to negotiate such a proposal as their own. Obviously, there has been no consultation with this site. We sit without agreement, we argue for up to 24 hours, and then the clients receive this law, which provides us with sanctions as kindergarteners. There was a comment that I need to make this morning, as a witness to this, to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the 2006 Revolution and the 1956 War of Independence, which looked disastrous. My colleague László Varju tried to enter the public media before me, and that was the problem that he wanted to exercise his right to represent him. In 2006, firefights, literally stone-throwing firefights, police ladies and policemen on the stairs, tried to protect the public media. The news TV broadcasts it straight, you could see it. I took a closer look at what was going on. They picked up the little cube stones. At the time, the hull was ten times basalt, a small square stone, throwing it at the cops. There were so many throwers that the police surrendered in the end and took over the public media, the crowd went into the public media. They drank the coffee. It's gone. What did the ruling party do? There was a 24-hour debate and a retortion, and I must add that recognizable faces appeared there. [[9.20]] Without a name, but with a specific name, one of the local government representatives of Fidesz from my own district, I saw it personally. So I think that recalling this 2006 event is a shame if I add that the service cars were burned and everything was on fire. Where is the visit to this public media for what happened recently in 2018? And where is he when they burned the trash cans on Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Road and threw them at him? Where is it to occupy Kossuth Square for several weeks, when there was a terrible state of affairs, or to break the cordon? So, compared to this, the then governing party did not perform such a nanny and tests [[Ferenc Koncz: Only shots fired...]] He thought it was a part of democracy. Now that there have been events here that can or cannot be agreed with, but this kind of... [[Ferenc Koncz: Márius punched himself in the face...]] He was our goalie, by the way, who just yelled out at that football team back in the day, and he was a good goalie, I should add. He's a former mayor, a colleague, and he's here as a congressman, so we've known each other a long time, and he can say something, and I'm not offended, but I think we don't have anything to throw up on each other. If I take into account yesterday's list of my fellow Member Szilágyi's worthy of this House, then things that have happened in this House on both sides of the House that can be classified as not worthy of this House. So now one side, which has done the same things as the other, out of the majority of the two-thirds authority, has come out here not to show modesty, not humility to the task, but to show my power. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I think that even if we vote for this bill, what will change between us, the relationship between the two sides? What's gonna change? Hate has been further aroused. After such an unworthy presentation, I think it's a legitimate reaction that's happening here. This city does not need this, nor does it need legislation, and most of all democracy, democratic Hungary, does not need this. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-433	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik!
u2019-11-20-434	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the aim of every faction that is present in the Hungarian Parliament is to preserve the dignity of the House, and no one wants to deliberately upset it. The problem with this law is not that it is intended to be sanctioned and very serious sanctions are envisaged. Sometimes we watch on TV what happens in the parliaments of certain countries, in the Ukrainian Parliament or in the Asian parliaments, and we do see that there is a riot in the Parliament and they are hitting each other. There are also serious injuries, some where there has already been a series of machine guns, and obviously no one, either of us, I think there is no one in this Parliament, in this Parliament, who wants us to be on the front page of the world press or the European press, so that we can be in the ranks of parliamentary scandals. No one wants this. But yet here is a law that brings very serious sanctions. How did we get here? Indeed, many of the previous speakers here have said and mentioned that it would be good for the Fidesz-KDNP faction to examine itself, because obviously people do not stand up and put up signs that may not be appropriate, because they are in such a mood, but something has triggered this. So, when you do not obey the rules of the parliamentary genre, when the questions are spoken here, the interpellations, what answers do we get? Cynical, lying, completely inappropriate, completely different things deliberately annoying the opposition's representatives, and forgive me, but I must say that, unfortunately, Prime Minister is also a partner in this, when he answers the question: I wish you a merry Christmas. So this is a parliamentary genre where everyone should theoretically follow the rules and act accordingly. And then, when we do not experience this in a series, and you, taking advantage of the dominant position that they have two thirds in the Hungarian Parliament, and they ignore the opposition, they ignore it, and we get these cynical, meaningless answers, of course, that people are pumped up, and sometimes things happen that are inappropriate. And it also has to be understood that if there are no parliamentary instruments, when a faction feels that there is something serious that should not happen in Hungary, such as the Earth Law, Jobbik has taken a radical step, and such things, besides violence in any form, can happen in the Hungarian Parliament. And speaking of violence. We also saw that the President of the House did not always allocate the punishment as a direct proportion of the action, if any. For example, in cases where violence has already taken place, it has been a violent attitude, and it has allocated the punishment when there has been no violence, no violence against something or violence against a person in any form. We see, in this case, that political opponents are sitting against each other. I would like to point out that they are adversaries. And then, when someone's attitude, the attitude of an opposition representative, is decided by the political opponent, it may not be an impartial decision, and I claim that there were some when it was not an impartial decision. That is why I do not think it is good that when such penalties are imposed in a bill as they are in this, whether it is the withdrawal of a year's salary, the ban for a longer period of time from the House, Parliament, the Office, these are extremely serious penalties, and when a biased person decides to do so, it is not certain that a good decision will be made. Once again, it is in everyone's interest to maintain the authority of this House, to preserve the dignity of this House, but here you should be a partner in that, when such a serious punishment is born, it is possible to draw the line that when it comes to a serious punishment, it is not the Speaker who will make the decision, but an organization above which each faction delegates one person and they will make the decision. And when it's specifically regulated, it's written about what kind of punishment is due, obviously, even if it's someone from his own faction, he can't do that, he didn't commit it, he has to be determined, and then the punishment can be imposed, and then we can say that an unbiased organ will impose that punishment. But there are also a number of problems with this legislation. I feel that the fundamental rights of its Members, guaranteed by the Constitution, guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, are also seriously violated by this law. After all, those who are banned must not exercise the freedom of speech, the freedom of speech, the freedom of expression, the freedom to express their opinions, and even their freedom of movement, because they cannot enter here. So this is seriously affecting the rights of the Member of Parliament. [[9.30]] I ask that, when a Member of Parliament is delegated here by the members of the Hungarian nation, the totality of Hungarian voters delegate that Member of Parliament here, there is the right of one person to withdraw the rights with which the Hungarian nation conferred that person. Do you have the right, for the four-year term of office of a Member of Parliament, to restrict the person entitled to rights by the people here in Hungary? What I'm saying is that it's quite clear that there isn't. There is no equality between the fact that we are in the same workplace, and in the workplace, the Chief of Labour can start a disciplinary procedure, and in disciplinary proceedings, he can apply certain sanctions against the employee, because it is a relationship based on a contract of employment, based on which there is a boss-restraint relationship, but the Members of Parliament, it is a completely different legal relationship. Here, the Hungarian people, the general assembly of voters, have the right to take part in Parliament's meetings, and therefore, in my opinion, such sanctions cannot be applied to him in any way. In extreme cases, it is also likely that an entire faction may be withdrawn, for 30 days or more, to attend Parliament's meeting, or even, in the most extreme case, to ban the entire opposition. And where shall we be, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, then there will be a one-party parliament here, and then we will carry everything through? And then who will vote and how will it work, then a one-party system will be implemented in Hungary? Does this law also include the possibility that punishments can be applied uncoordinated and can be said to someone because they will be embezzled there, and we will immediately apply harsh penalties to others? How does that work? ! So I think that this is a serious violation of the fundamental law, and the most extreme thing for me is that you, who have brought in a Fundamental Law, you, who have made this Fundamental Law exclusively, because no one other than the members of the Fidesz-KDNP has voted in favour of the Fundamental Law, all opposition representatives and all opposition groups have opposed the adoption of the Fundamental Law, and you will be the ones who are going to adopt this law seriously against fundamental law. We hope that they will not accept it, but as we have seen the examples so far, we do not have much confidence in it. But there are many extremes in this law. How do you turn officers into law enforcement, for example? How is this even gonna work? So I simply can't imagine when, where appropriate, the chair of the meeting instructs notaries to act with physical force, and if they do not, will they cease to be in office? I simply find it amazing what opportunities this law contains. It seems to me that this proposal is clearly an act of passion, a passion that has been triggered by a table keeping here, a sign that really doesn't belong here, but it is not good to make laws out of anger. It is never the right decision to make out of passion, especially when it is used to define the life of a country. I believe that this is a law of such anger, and that is why it is not sufficiently thought out, therefore it violates the rule of law and therefore it also violates the Fundamental Law, which is why, according to the law, it will be possible to withdraw freedom of expression and freedom of expression. Another extreme thing, when... according to the regulations, it was always possible for the parliamentary representatives to enter the state institutions without restriction. I feel a little bit from this regulation, which is in this law, as if Fidesz-KDNP wished to have these institutions as its own. Obviously, this rule is trying to prevent the free movement of opposition representatives from entering institutions that they do not want opposition representatives to enter. I believe that this is also a harsh rule, and I also see that democracy has been constantly being dismantled in this country since 2010. [[Ferenc Koncz: Because before that it was so perfect!]] Is my insight perfect? Yeah, okay, thank you very much. I guess that's what it said, at least that's what I heard. We are constantly, step by step, undermining democratic institutions, which we have now reached an important stage, and I believe that we are crossing a level of dictatorship by reducing the right of Members of Parliament, and I think that we are seriously damaging it, and that the President of Parliament will have the right to interpret certain laws and give a wide-ranging opportunity to live with the law, if necessary with excessive rigour, in his own interpretation, often not properly formulated, and thus give the President of Parliament a broad interpretation of the law to apply sanctions. And indeed, we can see that there is an opportunity for abusive use, which is also not for the rule of law, which is also not for us to step back from the dictatorship towards democracy. On this basis, I believe that this law is unacceptable. It is not by accident that you have triggered a very serious opposition from all opposition parties and all opposition groups, and it is not by chance that we are trying to make this issue important today and yesterday, so that they can see that we do stand up for our democratic rights to be preserved and that opposition rights are not undermined. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-20-435	Thank you very much. Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2019-11-20-436	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I have to start by saying that, unfortunately, Mrs. Housekeeper is wrong, she is wrong. Unfortunately, he's already gone home, but we need to know that he's been here all night, and he's been involved in this debate for practically 24 hours, but he said there's no way anyone's gonna use violence on the basis of this law. Unfortunately, this has not been excluded, but it has not been almost a month since it happened on the part of the Fidesz MEPs. And it doesn't matter whether the Fidesz Members were right to be outraged or not, and it has happened, and the House's decision proves it, because President László Kövér fined these Fidesz Members. And I think that if this happened a month ago, then nothing will rule out that now that there is virtually one authority in this bill, it will happen again. Because it's about the fact that in this bill there are problems that, if I remember correctly, we've been discussing this law since 11 p.m., and I've asked this question three times in person. Because the basic issue is, and I look especially at the authors, at what guarantees they can provide in connection with what should possibly be in the law, so that the criteria that clearly show that they contain subjective elements will be treated in a way that is objective. And how are we going to interpret that? To make it tangible: how much it costs if I say the elf, or how much it costs, if I say that dome. And now, obviously, replace this with a vulgar expression that I do not wish to apply. [[9.40]] So how are we going to decide what level of comment, reference, at what level and, as appropriate, how much bans, how many bans, how many fines do you mean? There are certain requirements of law, so it must be clear, for example. This legislation, which we have here, or draft legislation, is a lot, but it is not clear. For the practice of substitution, and we have been on it for hours now with very simple solutions, my fellow Members have said that if someone, say me, is banned, and I am in charge of a fellow Member, then while one hand is pushing the voting machine, with the other hand, it can indicate what I want to vote for. But imagine the not-so-lifeless situation that happened a year ago, when Mr. Speaker punished five of the six-person LMP factions, and one of the members didn't, so it's pretty much life-like that the five people punished will entrust that one. How's he gonna vote? You'll have to cast six votes in about five seconds. So what I understand is that you can vote with one hand instead of one fellow Member, and the other with the other, if you use both legs, you can vote instead of four fellow Members, but the fifth? And I wasn't exaggerating! I would like to tell my fellow Members that I am not making a joke about this story, but that this has already happened. The LMP faction has been punished by the Speaker of the House only by my fellow Member, Péter Ungár, who has been left out of the division. In this case, how can the reprimand use those non-removable representatives' permissions? 'Cause I don't think it's gonna happen at this point. The subjectivity said this several times during the night, not because of fear or suspicion, because we can see precisely that the physical atrocity was to be punished by the Speaker of the House by 50,000 forints, while the unquote, vulgar expression, which was written on a board, not even spoken, but written for 330,000 forints. I get it. I just don't understand your logic. If someone could shed light on this: there is a physical atrocity, let's assume that after the speech before the agenda I do not like the Secretary of State's response, then I can go there with a gesture of assault, and then the HUF 50,000? Understand, my fellow Members, that the level of punishment and the act committed are not proportionate. And how one-sidedly the rapporteur and the Fidesz fraction were, it is clear from the sentence of the landlady. He said that this legislation aims to bring opposition behaviour to the fore. Not the attitude of Members of Parliament, but the attitude of opposition representatives! I think that says a lot about this bill. I have great respect for the fact that you don't make this a secret, but let's not pretend that this applies equally to pro-government and opposition representatives. Yes, please respectfully, this is the case, and these problems stand up, and I know exactly that I will not be able to get answers to the questions raised now, I will not know how in practice I can vote for five of my fellow Members, I will not know what guarantees have been incorporated into this law, which ensures that decisions will be taken on the basis of objective assessment, excluding subjective elements. I think it was my gullible fellow Member who said in a very plastic, very understandable way that the text of the draft law is really everything, but it is not clear. With due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members, István Happy, as rapporteur: are you sure you want to present this to the House in this form? If I have already been involved in this or communication with István Happy, then let me ask with due respect that you answer the questions that arise, the practical solution to the vote, the guarantees and the otherwise interpretive provisions, please, because I really do not know the extent to which sentence will weigh, which paragraph is the point which ensures objective decision or judgement of the action in question, because I do not think there is such a sentence or such a paragraph. In this form, as it is now, whatever the decision maker may say in a person, Mr Speaker of the House, that this or that is, otherwise, the criterion laid down in this law, and there is no guarantee that he will judge the sentences of my fellow Member Hende Csaba in the same way as mine. He doesn't have the guarantees! There are clearly political decisions in this law, and unfortunately it does not meet the minimum requirements that all legislation should meet, so it does not have the requirements that I think are indispensable. So I've been looking forward to answering my questions in an extraordinary way since 2:30 in the morning, and I'm hoping that this morning will bring me the holy moment to get an answer. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-437	Thank you very much. We're about to make a two-minute comment. I respectfully inform Members that only one speaker from one faction is allowed in one round, and the others are obviously after that. The floor now belongs to Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry, in two minutes.
u2019-11-20-438	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I, with some modesty, because I wasn't here at night, but I have only had the pleasure of joining this debate since 8:00 a.m., but I would certainly like to set an example for my fellow Members. On the one hand, we are constantly hearing only the rights of a Member from the opposition's side. Of course, Members have rights, but I think it should be said that they also have responsibilities, and respect for the exception, some Members over the past period, I think that they have behaved in a way that does not hurt the quality of a more demanding corner pub in Parliament. By the way, whether this bill is taken on by the opposition or not, I would like to give the example that I have had the pleasure of working here in Parliament since 2006, perhaps we can agree with not everyone here from the opposition benches that, between 2006 and 2010, there was a deeper social, trust and other crisis in Hungary. The leading power of the opposition at that time, Fidesz, chose the only way of parliamentary work to protest, and it was that he left during the speech of Ferenc Gyurcsány. You may remember this, fellow Members, for this reason we received cold and warm in the press at the time. I think that Members of Parliament have the opportunity to culturally protest against what they disagree with, and I think that the members of the Fidesz, then, have chosen the most modern part of this. So it is not that we want to punish everyone and everything here, but that is what we are talking about, and I am glad that we agree that Parliament's authority must be restored, and I think that all Members have the opportunity to express their political vision in this regard in the past and in the present. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-439	Thank you very much. We return to the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP. [[9.50]]
u2019-11-20-440	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There's a lady in the room. Good afternoon. New people and new aspects are emerging in the debate, or at least I hope we will try to formulate these new ideas here for you. I have repeatedly started to comment that you always try to put yourself in the other's place and try to think about why this decision, why this decision is now, and how you think it will be solved inside and how, how you think it will be communicated. Well, the question really arises, I have heard, this has been pushed several times in the room, but I would like to put it back on the table, that it has been almost a year since 12 December, and there has actually been nothing beyond the fact that all the communication balloons have been launched and that they have been blown away in the air. After that, after October 13, the decision was made, obviously in certain elements of the Hadházy movement that I was debating, to bring this kind of bill into the Christmas awe, at the beginning of Christmas preparation, in the middle of a rather serious legislative tsunami. Perhaps, in this battlefield and in the middle of the smell of bejglia, these things will be able to fly into the air, and perhaps this will have no effect at all. [[The sound is jammed by some kind of technical device.]] I think we've been able to prove in the last ten hours that this is definitely not going to happen. Although we know very well that Parliament's operation does not usually excite people, I believe that in the next period we will be able to show what kind of perception you have in the internal functioning of Parliament. A lot of people thought political analysts had read about the tactics the Prime Minister chooses after October 13th. 'Cause let's not be allowed in this respect, in any way, obviously you're not sovereign on this issue, here more... is there something vibrating?
u2019-11-20-441	Yeah. His cell phone.
u2019-11-20-442	Not to me. I'll keep going. [[The sound is back on.]] So from that point of view, I'm not very comfortable. Obviously, their representatives and their political sovereignty are within a very narrow framework. I think that the strategic thinking of the Speaker and the Prime Minister will determine a significant part of your thinking. Why do you, honourable Members and gentlemen, think that this kind of housekeeping rigour, which restricts even more the functioning of the House, covers in any way the true occupation of real problems? Why do you think that this type of technological decision has any impact on the political situation that is clearly escalating, clearly becoming more and more difficult around you? I could do that because of the delay in time, but we've really been through this, because it's after 9:00 that I'm going to tell you what points more and more social groups think things are not going the right way, and your choices are not what they communicate every day, by the way. You know, I've been president of a party that's been leading a lot of things lately. I know exactly how there is a moment when the chariot runs, a man takes the reins, and he can only hold the wagon in a small way, and everything is moving. Then, when this cart hits a pothole, it's a very big mistake if someone starts dragging it around and tries to come out with sudden moves, because it usually doesn't work. There is a moment when the same sentences you say, they work, they work, they work, they work, they work, they get bumpy, they limp, and they sound very, very different than you think they are right now. I would like to draw up a short line of thought on the concept of democracy. It tells me a lot that your first reaction after October 13th and the Hadházy board was this. There's so much you could've done before. It could have been, like, a seven-party trial. It could have been what my better fellow Member here said that we are saying that we are trying, in a way that is not linked to the powers of public law, to try to communicate on how, how, this objective that we are all setting out can be achieved. How, how could our own intellectuals be involved in the work that some Members, or some stylish things that we do not always agree with, should not undermine the authority of parliamentaryism, parliamentary work and Members of Parliament? This is not the path you chose. Immediately, when you reached into the drawer and there was the candy and the whip, you touched the whip without thinking. That's what we're trying to tell you in some way, explain it to you. I was a local politician for a very long time, didn't I? There was a saying that the submitted text shows what the new management thinks about local government, democracy, and the budget about what they think about the settlement, what they want to do for the settlement. Well, if we turn this around like this, then I'm saying that the submission of house rules shows what you think of political culture, what you think of democracy. I would just like to note in parentheses that I can hear it now in several places where the election has been lost, where text changes are being submitted. They are submitting amendments made by Mérce and K-monitor in the last few months in the campaign on how it should work, how it would work, how it would work, that it happened almost word for word, for example, in NewBuda, in NewBuda, a KDNP representative is submitting the amendment that was, in some respects, made in the campaign among our intellectuals. What an interesting world this is! What do you expect from this perspective in the long term? What do you think, if necessary, let's be reasonable, after a few years or a few cycles, what do you think you're gonna get back from all this stuff that you're doing here? Let me tell you something about foreign examples, a little bit of tension here, there's this classic joke where Russian and English talk to each other, and the Russian asks why the grass is so green in your country. That's because we water it every day, says the Englishman. But the Russian says we water it every day. Yeah, yeah, but we've been doing it for 200 years, says the Englishman. I didn't want to tell the whole joke for a long time. The problem is that you can really bring some examples here, but there are established rules, legal systems. You know why they don't cross that line in the English Parliament, don't you? Because you can't cross sword distance. Where are these types of traditions, rules in our parliamentarism? There, I think it's appropriate. Unfortunately, I say with a painful heart here, nearly 30 years after the change of regime, I still think that we should try to establish our own rules of play. I'd be on the verge of what's considered insubordination, what's a bad thought. Everyone here has told me how long you've been in this House. I first entered Parliament in 94, and ever since then I would just like to indicate whatever color the power in this country is; just so that everyone can do their own polish at a given moment. There was a huge moment in this parliamentary aristocracy. We had an older colleague sitting here somewhere. I will not forget that Congressman Zsolt Németh has commented on a very important agenda. The leading president was not István Hiller at the time, but Mária Kóródi, if anyone remembers that name, when my fellow Member ran out of his mouth in connection with some amazing sentence, I'm sorry, I'm going to say a word, you idiot, you. It was just a moment when there was total silence in the room, and it got into the middle. Zsolt Németh stopped for a moment, but continued as a routine politician. László Fat, who was in the room, sat down, and said that the meeting should be closed immediately. The most serious issue of modern democracy has occurred here, there is a serious violation of parliamentarianism, which is why he asks the President-in-Office of the House, the Vice-President, to convene the House Committee right now, to stop the meeting, to close the House, there is a very, very serious problem here. [[10.00]] Mária Horódi turned to the two notaries, consulted, talked, and turned back, and said that from here, from the pulpit, it had come to you to sit down, you. And since the Member spoke standing, he therefore assumes that this does not constitute an insubordination, since encouraging the standing Member to sit is not in any way considered to be against the rules of the house. I just want to say that it happened, I sat here, I lived through this thing, that the world can be very, very different from here. And while we're at it, and I'm trying to really loosen the mood, see how we can look from there, we've heard a lot of examples over the night, and how and how you look from here. There's a very simple Chinese story about a peasant disappearing his axe, looking everywhere, but he can't find it. He looks at the kid next door and says that this kid next door probably took his axe and says, "This kid walks like a thief, he's gotta be the thief, he's talking like a thief, he's acting like a thief." Then, in a few days, you'll find the axe slipping behind the subloo. He looks at the same kid and says he's a perfectly normal kid. The problem is, if we could rearrange our prejudices a little bit sometimes, put them aside, then it might turn out that there are normal people everywhere and in every situation who think normally. Now the question, I know exactly that politics is like cleaning windows, the filth is always on the other side, but I'm still asking the rhetorical question, is there any chance that you guys are gonna change that. We believe that when these 10 hours will be analyzed, we may be able to find some kind of movement in this case. It consists of 46 paragraphs, so they let me out of the 48, but 57 pages, so they've gone over 56 think about this next period! Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2019-11-20-443	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Judit Bertalan, Fidesz.
u2019-11-20-444	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I played two minutes when my fellow Member Hajdu spoke. I would like to respond briefly because we do not want the information that the opposition is repeating on the Fidesz fraction to remain. Because it's not exactly true. I would like to reject, once again, any comments and any comments with such content as to suggest that events in 2006 are linked to the current parliamentary regulation. It was a completely different situation, Congressman. I do not think that the conduct of a Member of Parliament and the tightening of existing rules in order to preserve the dignity of Parliament and to maintain order cannot even be paralleled with the events of 2006, which, contrary to your claim, was a dissatisfied civil movement, which was indeed fired up by the sentences and actions of your government, your Prime Minister. Let's not confuse the events of the MTV Headquarters in 2006 and the rioting, the disorder, the behavioral disorder that the opposition practically started on 12 December last year. Why did you get in here now? Because we thought it had calmed down a little, maybe they looked at themselves, maybe they turned to themselves, and maybe they learned to behave again, which a three-year-old child in kindergarten has already started, and certain basic standards, you said, "hello, release," and the rest, as von Hause aus, let's bring them with us. But you do not seem to be able to return to the day-to-day movement and functioning of Parliament. Mr Hadházy's ordenáré style, I think he has made the point that we need to adopt a regulation and redirect the parliamentary debate into a style that citizens rightly expect of us. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-20-445	Thank you very much. I just want to inform Congresswoman that this was a normal speech. If you want two minutes, as I see on the monitor, that's what it says. If that was two minutes old, take it out, please. [[For signal:]] All right, thank you. So we will return to the speeches of the speakers who have asked for a normal word. Congressman László Varju, DK. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-446	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I see this debate, which we started late last night, after 10:00 p.m., around 10:30 p.m., since then we have been enjoying, there are moments when we believe that the other party in this debate, in particular the party of the government and the opposition, is hoping that we can win someone to agree with it, or at least think a little about what we think. This category includes what my fellow Member László Hajdu started. He asked you the question of what will change here if this law is passed or not, but fundamentally in political circumstances, something can change. Now, as Congresswoman Czunyiné has responded here, it is clear that we are on the other wave now, or as Congressman Szatmary has reacted, that you have faithfully demonstrated that Members have just arrived, and that we are not going to allow them to come out of the '48. There is no question that any negotiation, cooperation or anything can be assumed here. It's true the starting point you've been saying here in the last hour by Members, but you're clearly telling me that you're imagining that you're going to tell us what's right for us. Thank you very much, but we don't want any of this. As much as I would like to, I understand that there are more of them at the moment, and from this power or from this mindset, and as a party of state, they say that you should shut up, and that will be what you say. That's why you can say such sentences that they concern you, because they can't behave. Well, I'm sorry, but I'll decide how I behave. If, by the way, voters in Újpest are going to pay or criticize this in some way, they will say so. They have the opportunity to do this regularly, and there are a lot of times, starting with reception hours, when I meet the voters, and frankly, their opinion means a lot more to me than that, by the way, you guys, no matter what committee, no matter what kind of parliamentary seat you're gonna be telling me how I should behave. How much this is involved in your thinking, about the same as that of János Lázár, that everyone is worth as much as he has scratched up for himself, the same thing is said, and it appears in the thinking that we should shift opposition behaviour into a civilized bed, as the Member said here half an hour ago. Well, thank you very much, but mind your own business, please, and yours. It's for them to discuss it with each other and then lead each other in one direction. But I think they don't want to lead opposition representatives anywhere. Leave us alone, leave us the right that is a fundamental right in democracy, that Members have freedom of speech, for example, that they have the right to control Parliament, and that through Parliament, they have the right to control the government. I understand that this is very confusing for you, and you are doing everything you can to make the executive role of the government uncontrollable in such a way that only you can see this, and therefore all opposition representatives must be kept on a short leash. For example, one way is that you actually believe that in this way you can take account of or give direction to the whole parliament and opposition representatives, on the other hand, and you will be able to adopt a law in nine minutes, which is in your best interest. Or, I'm sorry, it's in someone's best interest, because it's not in one case what they've done, that they've made name laws, and that, in that regard, is your party interest, that they can take care of in a matter of minutes. [[10.10]] But it also includes initiatives that have worked as a monitoring committee, as I recall, throughout the past period, except when Fidesz has been governed and no control committee is allowed to operate, and they are not able to contribute in this way, I say this as a representative from the point of view that I understand that you are thinking of parliamentary governance or something like that, you think you have something to do with this, that you are doing this, but from this point of view, I believe that you do not need to enforce this opposition, but that you need Parliament's control function to function. I can tell you about this in detail from the point of view of the operation of the Committee on Budgets, how you feel about this audit, and I will tell you only one story. At the last meeting, the Vice-President of the Committee said what a glorious budget this is, since there is no amendment and it is always the same and otherwise there is no need to change the budget. Yeah, let's just forget about the little thing, then, quickly, that you have created a budget reserve that exceeds a few hundred billion forints, which is decided every day in government power, that is, in the Orbán sphere. The second is that in order to have more money, those where there is remains are collected in one place, so this means hundreds of billions of forints of operation for you or decision-making. And from now on, everything has been removed from here, it cannot be verified, but it is true that every day we can read their latest decision in the Hungarian Gazette. You are here now trying to make a moral reference to our common responsibility to preserve the House's respectability, while you are doing everything in your power to ensure that there is no trace of this, because the opposition is left with no other means than, by the way, to resist, in the most insane way possible, to try to create new rules here as a steamroller with a nine-minute legislative effort, after which you already claim that this law, why I complain, while you have adopted a lot of laws that I think are unacceptable, and that their conduct in this regard, I think, is absolutely objectionable. Once again, one example is that it is easy for you to understand: if you spend more than a hundred billion forints on the operation of the media authority in the budget and on the maintenance of the entire media, then the opposition players will be given the opportunity to talk about them, and otherwise there is no way for us to express a word, then don't be surprised if you don't like everything that happens in the headquarters of MTVA. And don't be surprised if Members there are, by reason of their right to control, which they still have a licence for today, but you are so frightened by everything that has begun with the slave law, and the possibility that there really is a way to deal with you not with one representative, but there are more, there are more than sixty of these opposition representatives who speak, consistently tell you and read into your head what you are doing wrong, as it has now been going on for almost 12 hours under this law. And how strange life is: we are discussing this law, it started yesterday when the slave law was filed, a year later, exactly the same situation. I don't know if you did this on purpose, because then, let's just say it's a pretty impertinent story, but what you've been doing since the slave law, I think you're sensing that what you're doing is unacceptable and undesirable to society. Since the congresswoman has even said that we are going to continue at all costs and carry this law through at any cost, it was Congresswoman Mátrai who said this here a little earlier, Mrs House-grandmother, which is why I also think that I think that you would think that you would want to change anything here or, in fact, that the debate of this law on your side would have been over a long time ago, the only reason why you are still here in this matter is because you have come to other points on the agenda, because the opposition consistently draws attention to the fact that this law, which is the law of the mouth lock or of the law, does not matter, you want this parliament to operate without opposition, and try to resolve it so. This whole story, as you've given up all this while here, is a hypocritical attitude for which I think you deserve a donkey bone and that you should be chased out of here as cupcakes, because democracy has been betrayed a long time ago, and you, I believe, have basically no right and no moral opportunity to otherwise try to restrict the opposition in this way. Especially if you're being moralized here, and then on the other side, you're showing the country role models, showing your mayor in Győr, and as a result of Borkaism, there's so much news in this country that you're trying to take off, of course, but the thing is, this is exactly how you operate. And I am not referring primarily to pornographic solutions and images, but to what happened in Győr by giving an advantage to economic operators with land rating, and that is what you are hiding. You, together with Péter Polt and the others who are involved in this, the President of the State Audit Office was unable to account here for the reasons why he could not carry out a sound audit in Győr, so that all the audit authorities that were unable to discover what had happened in Győr could be listed calmly. And I understand this attitude, that you're here with a law that looks like such a rude intervention, that you want opposition representatives to be silenced, and that's what's going to be discussed everywhere. The fact is, to be honest, it is not what hurts us the most, or it will not hurt us the most, although Mr Fat has promised that it will hurt a lot that this law will be passed by you, because even after the adoption of the law, the opposition will consistently protest in this House against what you are doing, what you are doing, and the House's respectability will not be restored by this law, but by establishing a fair operation. Fair functioning also includes abstaining from exceptional laws, not making nine-minute laws, not having so many debates, but also accepting the fact that the opposition's initiative is to introduce them here, so that monitoring committees can be launched, for example, and you support this. Do not flee behind the power of the majority, but give democracy an opportunity, because as long as they do not, I will continue to claim that you are the murderers of Hungarian democracy. Thank you very much. [[10.20]]
u2019-11-20-447	Thank you very much. Congressman Lóránt Keresztes, head of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-448	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Listening to the debate, I was present for an hour, but I find that new aspects need to be raised and new aspects are emerging, so I asked the floor to draw attention to them. I think this debate should really start now. On the one hand, this bill is for you to try to restore the authority of this House, as you put it. I feel that there is a consensus between the government side and the opposition side that the authority of this House has been seriously damaged, but we do not agree on what caused this House's authority to be damaged. At the same time, you have put forward a proposal in which, on the one hand, there are no guarantees as to how to bring the law into line with its objectives, and on the other hand, the opposition has drawn attention from many sides to the fact that it has a flawed bill that makes it impossible, impossible, and paralyzes the functioning of the Parliament. Congressman Szatmáry and the congresswoman also spoke about duty, obligation and shared responsibility. I think that as many of us as we are in this room, as many of us are going to be involved in this debate, we have a joint responsibility to draw attention to all of this, that there are serious errors and serious risks in this bill, because it can be such an exit if my fellow members of the government accept it without change that it makes it impossible for Parliament to operate. And I look at the rapporteur, and I think we agree that it is our shared responsibility to prevent this from happening. My fellow Members have very often formulated specific questions, which suggest this, but they could not really hear the answer to how certain situations, which are encoded by this particular bill, could be resolved, so if a particular situation happens, then how can it be possible for Parliament to work. We mentioned specific problems, and I'm about to go through these problems, see if I can inspire you enough to speak up and explain them. If you cannot explain how an application, a particular situation, can be dealt with in practice, then you will not solve this serious problem, leaving a proposal before the House and taking it all the way to the vote of the pro-government majority, which could paralyze the functioning of Parliament, this is unacceptable. And if you cannot explain specifically how certain points of that bill can be implemented in practice, then you must acknowledge that they are flawed and then come to the conclusion that these proposals need to be amended. So in these two ways, I can imagine the lifting of this debate. My fellow Members have said so many times, but I would like to add a little bit to this argument that there is a situation where one Member, two Members, if any, and all opposition representatives are banned, and the Member's right to cast his vote is clearly not to be taken away. The Member will be able to exercise his vote by representation. The relatively simple situation, which has already been said in several debates, is that if a Member replaces another Member, he will solve it by holding hands. My fellow Member, Mr Csárdi, explained in very detail the situation where a Member has to replace 4-5-6-10, I do not know how many Members. What's the solution in your mind anyway? I'm looking at Congressman Csaba Hende. Because the proposal says that a congressman can replace one person. So in the situation where all opposition representatives are banned, on the one hand, do you consider it lifelike that the banned opposition representatives will be replaced in any way by a pro-government representative, a pro-government representative will cast his vote? It is included in the proposal that this representation should be exercised with the same intention, but we do not see any guarantee of what will happen if a pro-government representative changes his mind, does not give it to God, and he does not wish to represent this vote in this way with the same intention, not according to the mandate. How can you control this, how can you sanction it, what will be the way? And what happens if a pro-government representative does not cast that vote against the clear instruction of the opposition representative? Maybe he'll be sanctioned, he'll be banned. And then we'll go on like this, and we'll go to an infinite cycle that will permanently paralyze the functioning of the National Assembly. Please make sure that this problem is resolved. So, specifically, how is your technical solution in practice to implement the mandate voting in this way? And I would specifically ask the rapporteur to state whether it is realistic that he represents the opposition. The following is: the ban is valid not only for the vote, not only for Parliament's building, but for all the Parliament's premises, the Office House and their own offices, if they decide to make such a decision. This is causing a lot of problems. Congressman Szatmáry rightly drew attention to duty. It is an obligation for the MP to be present, it is his duty to participate in the debate, it is his duty to vote, but it is his duty to prepare for the vote. I think we can agree that there are Members who do not want to press the button on the basis of the faction guidelines put before them, but who want to prepare responsibly for a given voting method and who want to represent national interests and, where appropriate, the interests of their constituency. There are certainly conditions for responsible preparation. The condition of this is because a Member cannot understand everything, and basically we are not elected here as experts, not on the basis of our profession, but as elected politicians, as Members of Parliament, that we need expert and professional help in order to pass our vote prepared in a law involving responsiblely many kinds of policies. We can obtain this expert and professional assistance through the apparatus provided by the Office, together with them, to prepare ourselves for the responsible vote here. This kind of preparation work requires us to sit down with our colleagues, discuss these decisions in several circles and in different bodies. We need to obtain different background information, where appropriate through databases different from the library, and we need to use all the sources of information that are still typically available in the Parliament's buildings. So this kind of ban also makes it impossible for us to have a very important duty, or to comply with the fact that we have to come here prepared and take part in the vote. Similarly, Members have other rights, such as the exercise of employers' rights. How and how will a Member know how to comply with his legal obligations, how will he be able to enforce his employer's rights if he is banned from all buildings? Are you going to do these tasks at a gas station or at a coffee shop? So I look at the author, because many times my fellow Members have said that this is an important and very serious risk factor in your proposal. How can this happen in life? How will the banned Member be able to exercise his or her employer's rights, where appropriate? How can a group leader exercise his employer's rights? How can a faction leader exercise his other duties, which is a very serious, extensive system of tasks? I would also like a clear answer from you. The purpose of your bill is to restore the authority of this House, and I am thinking again of Congressman Satmary: duty. I think I agree that it is a duty to be here, an obligation to work actively for all Members, not only for the opposition, but also for the pro-government representative, but it is clear that, if we look at it, we have relatively simple access to objective data, how active it is. Someone hasn't spoken for many years, someone doesn't attend a committee meeting; yesterday we talked about this two-handed vote, how constitutional it is, how much it isn't. A lot of Members seem to be reading some kind of tabloid literature, pressing their phones, having no idea what is happening around them, looking at the codes they received, and then pressing the buttons, but it is typical that, for example, in the late hours of the evening, events of today or the last night have reported a refreshing exception in this respect, my fellow MPs are not present, they are not speaking, they are not participating in the debate, even in cases where we specifically ask whether, in a given case, they are already saying something concerning a constituency problem. Or Mr. Csárdi asked Mr. Happy as rapporteur and did not rise to comment. So I think it's also a duty for a congressman. It is a duty, very well done, Mr Szatmáry, and if a Member fails to fulfil his obligations, if a Member does not speak and does not do at all the work of his Members of Parliament for which he has been sent, and for which he receives his high salary, it is a serious violation of the dignity of this House. So where are these specific guarantees? Because we've heard a lot of things here in the last 11 hours and 29 minutes of debate, but we couldn't hear these guarantees, these clear guidelines. But as I look at you, fellow Members, I see the confusion. So I feel like you've been trying to form a club like this, and you really have no idea how this is going to happen in practice, or don't give it to me, God, this has come to your table as a suggestion that you should be able to present it, and maybe you don't have the knowledge of how it is imagined in practice. So where is the guarantee that the Member, whether opposition or pro-government, will then fulfil his obligations, will be here at the Parliament meetings, will be prepared to vote, will submit legislative proposals, and will the rest, fair and honest, actively carry out the role of parliamentary representatives? Where, in particular, is the guarantee that will lead Parliament's work in this direction instead of the legislation that has been put in place so far? I don't see it. [[10.30]] And very, very important, Mrs Czunyiné said that there is now a tightening of an existing rule before us. But the problem is, you didn't apply this existing rule when it happened in the case that was the focal point of the whole thing. Ákos Hadházy held up the board, we know it well, we have discussed this case a thousand times today, then a SWAT team started from behind, a commando of Fidesz MEPs, and using violence they took away the board from Ákos Hadházy. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm analysed this in very detail, and I think everyone saw the videos exactly what happened. The Speaker of the House, not the current speaker, but the Speaker, after a warning, did not really intervene in the case. There we saw such a peculiar wrestling, that the Prime Minister tried to take the board out of the hands of Congressman Hadházy, and then he woke up to his consciousness, I don't know, six or seven Fidesz, KDNP MEPs, that they would then go there with the great courage of seven or eight of them against one man, in a Christian-conservative manner, which you lie about yourself, go there and forcefully take away this board. Now, this case cannot, at any level, be brought into line with the rules currently in force, Congresswoman. Mr Speaker, the Speaker at that time did not apply that rule. Everyone was waiting for what would happen, and then the Fidesz bouncers started to take control and then nothing happened. So, in my understanding, and this has already been introduced by Congresswoman Varga-Damm, there would have been a procedural technique to establish order in the House when this was the case, but it should have been interfered when there was clearly physical force. I think that this is unprecedented, at least in the case of democracy after the change of regime, and I stress it, regardless of whether we agree with these particular tables. I can say, too, that I very much disagree with the expression of obscene terms, but I think that it is a much more serious case that a Member is forced to do something by physical force with rules. Now, Congresswoman, where, by your intentions, is it that you are tightening up anything by not applying the existing rules so far, that this will change, and at all, in these rules? We do not have to argue that the application of physical force by the Fidesz Members violated not only the house rules, but also the authority of the House, because they were punished for it, even if it was not even a symbolic punishment, it was 50 thousand forints for physical violence. Where exactly is it, Congressman, your guarantee that such a thing cannot take place, that, where appropriate, one of the opposition representatives will stand up, and that Mr. Peter Hoppál will not feel twice as strong again as he is? Where's the guarantee that a Fidesz SWAT team won't leave the back row again? Where is the guarantee that anyone who tries to use physical violence against a Member of Parliament can never do that again? So I don't see these guarantees. Overall, and in summary of this brief comment, I see that the debate must be put into a new dimension, and I am looking at you now, and I am looking forward to your answer, but frankly, I have no illusions. In my view, the list of errors the opposition has now formulated in this long-term debate, the sources of danger in this bill, which you will not be able to explain in detail. So, overall, if you allow this bill to go on and, in accordance with their good practice, as such, as a faction dictatorate, you will also be forced to vote, and you will do so by endangering, risking the functioning of the Parliament, by putting it in a position to paralyze the functioning of the Parliament, where appropriate, and thus seriously violate Hungary's authority. So I would very much ask my fellow Members either to go through these very, very, very detailed mistakes, list of errors, to look at them, to demonstrate clearly and clearly what the guarantees are, so in practice, how they can be enforced, what is the guarantee that the cases that I have just mentioned in some cases should not happen. And if you can't do that, so you can't clearly rule out that your bill is risking the functioning of Parliament, then make a list of the points in this bill that are unviable, which do not work, and which threaten the functioning of Parliament, and then take a thick marker and pull these points out of this bill. If you cannot explain that these are extremely serious risks and you cannot explain how these can be enforced in practice, then it is your responsibility to acknowledge that these are incorrect proposals and must be removed from the otherwise shameful bill you have tabled. Thank you.
u2019-11-20-449	Thank you very much. We have two-minute speakers coming up. First, Congressman Csaba Hende, Vice President of Parliament, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-450	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The world didn't start today. I'm saying this because he's asking both Antal Csárdi and Lóránt Keresztes for an explanation as to what certain Kasuistic examples are, what if, and if that's what he's doing, it's what he's doing. Please, there is no change in the law as to what is allowed and what is prohibited. The rules of conduct remain the same. So now you're asking me the law in force, so that I can interpret for you what if someone does something or doesn't do something, then the Speaker of the House will do, then the immunity committee on appeal, and then, second, the plenum as an appeal forum will do. Of course, you cannot answer that, my honourable fellow Member. The point is that the new law does not contain any more obligations than it does in force, and the same rules of conduct apply. What changes is the weight of sanctions, the penalties for these violations. This is not about the rights of Members, Honourable Parliament, but about the costs of the infringement. That's what this debate is about. Of course, if you are free as before, and the same is forbidden as before, then the question arises that, of course, what is forbidden is possible, and what it costs to do something forbidden but possible. This is the subject of the proposal. Thus, the situation of individual Members is no more burdensome. They have to follow the same rules as they are now. The representative's mandate is, by the way, for the entire duration of the ban, the prohibited Member may only give a representative's mandate to one of his fellow Members and the delegate may cast a vote on behalf of only one Member at the same time. I can't explain this in more detail, but it may not be necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-11-20-451	Thank you. Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP, in two minutes.
u2019-11-20-452	Thank you very much. My fellow Member Hende was here at the beginning of the debate, and he knows exactly as I am that from 11 to about 3:30 this House has debated the cases in which the authority of this House, the dignity of the sitting may be violated, and let us be honest, we have not come to a conclusion. We didn't get any exact, tangible things. On the opposition side alone, for more than two hours, we have listed examples that we believe have violated the authority of this House and have been spoken out of the mouth of the Fidesz MEPs. Of course, they didn't get any answers. That's why it's a problem, and that's why the night debate was aimless. But let me tell you something about bans. How can the banned Member pass on his committee votes in his work? Let's assume that the LMP, which is 6 people, bans 4 representatives. If every congressman can only accept one assignment, then I'm supposed to hire a Fidesz, DK, betterman? You don't really mean that, do you? It's unviable! This law begins with the fact that only a representative on the same list, nominated by the same nominating organisation, can form a faction, but he says that the replacement can go in and out. Don't you think this is a problem with coherence? I'll tell you the rest in my regular comment. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-453	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju, DK, in two minutes.
u2019-11-20-454	Thank you very much. Congressman Szatmáry put it this way that sometimes it is difficult to exceed the standards of a more demanding corner pub. Well, in the same tone, I could say to him that I would quote the sign of Congressman Hadházy, so think before you, because, dear House, it does not work that way at all. With regard to the proposals in which the work of this House is classified, I think that we will perhaps go on a study trip to the Budapest Chamber of Commerce and Industry and see how the story works, and then we will take the advice from there into consideration. [[10.40]] What is more exciting, however, is that I would like to respond to the comments of Mrs Házságság, Member, by referring to the fact that Hungary has been on a rising course since 2010. From the starting point of a global economic crisis, it is not difficult to draw this emerging career on its own, especially if it is from the European Union, from which you are reluctant to accept it, but every year you receive the HUF 1500-1200 billion that contributes to the number of growth. By the way, the same contribution is made by people who are transferring from abroad because they have not been able to create the right conditions for their families at home, so they had to move from here and return home in the same way as paying their loans and expenses. So it's clear from these two numbers that you don't have much to do in this economy. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-455	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, in two minutes.
u2019-11-20-456	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday at about two or three o'clock, our fellow Member Böröcz spoke to him about the debate, and I could only watch it on the Internet, but I also wanted to reflect on the report that he said that they did not understand, as Mr Szatmáry said, this quasi-club style, and how they always follow all the rules. Well, as I recall, in Fidelitas, such a wellness pig slaughter, they even beat each other in the organization he was driving. Maybe he should do a little sweeping around his own house when he's talking about who's acting, because as that organization works, he's issuing a certificate about his president. As is interesting when Kristóf Szatmáry tries to teach us any morals and laws. If I understand correctly, he couldn't even give me a normal bill, or he didn't want to, maybe in his own vegetable company. And then they solved it quickly, from what I hear, they've been liquidating it now. In English, it's an interesting thing that if you don't follow the rules, then you start asking people to account for these things with a serious moral aspect. First, I think it is worth learning how to issue the bill, Congressman, and then maybe there's something else to talk about. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-20-457	I would like to inform Congressman Szatmáry that I can give him the floor in the next round in two minutes. We will now return to the speeches of the ordinary speakers. Congresswoman Judit Bertalan, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-458	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's really nice, and I'd like to correct that mistake.
u2019-11-20-459	He's been nice before, he's only been nice for two minutes, and now he's gotta be nice for a long time.
u2019-11-20-460	I was wrong. I didn't say Mr. President was wrong.
u2019-11-20-461	I see!
u2019-11-20-462	I said I was wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, There are some thoughts that we need to bring up and talk about here in our comments again for the sake of clarity. Again, I must say that I am sorry that our opposition colleagues sometimes speak a completely different language, and not only do they use the Hungarian language and its concepts in another context, but they are already trying to color professional concepts and the language of the profession a little politically. My fellow Member, Mr Gyüre, and I have already held part of the debate in the committee, but here, as my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Hende, as rapporteur, has made clear in his two-minute speech that the existing rules are about increasing their sanctions and tightening sanctions in the case of their sanctions. So now we are debating whether you want it cheap or expensive or you don't want to get away with raging and, in this House, fines or penalties that can be granted or measured on account of any other violation of the rules of conduct. Basically, the opposition law, which you constantly refer to in various contexts of the night, is not violated. You still have the opportunity to submit an interpellation. There is still a possibility for you, and this bill does not tell you to ask me whether... [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] My fellow Member! They have the right to exercise their rights. This is about how they do it. If I am trying to sum up your debate last night, this morning's night, which I followed partly on the Internet, then I could make a statement on your side, and I very much disagree with him that it is right for you to have any debate in Hungary today, whether this is a political debate or a debate between anyone, if we do not agree, then it is right for us to rush into the other, rushing down on the other, instead of using the instruments that are open for expression, and, by the way, here in Parliament, according to the law on house rules and Members of Parliament, they are open, they are available, they do not change with this amendment, you think it is right to disagree with the minister, one of my fellow Members said this here, just to recall the last minutes, if they do not agree with the Minister, the State Secretary of State or the Speaking Party of Government, then they will rush in some way, whether physically or verbally, as one has already done in the Hungarian Parliament. My fellow Member, it is possible to smile on this, but it is a little further away from the debate you have tried here today, by the way, I understand why we have been arguing for 12 hours now and why this debate is taking place so far, you are guiding me. They move, as always, when they try to draw attention from reality with some kind of political performance or action. Let me have a few thoughts on this, because I think that my fellow Member Varju has traditionally now always allowed me to think about situations which are in the middle of a particular legislative proposal or in a parliamentary debate. My fellow Member has said that it is hypocrisy that is taking place during the referral and debate of this law. A little out of this context, let me ask you: for you and for me, this is a clear diversion, the hypocrisy that there is a parliamentary faction, which happens to be now the Fidesz-KDNP's ruling party, which, by the way, you have challenged this, after a long consideration, because, in the light of the events of 12 December, you are asking why not afterwards, why not immediately, why not, after a long consideration, after a not-so-old action, you did submit this bill, and just to remember it clearly, I said before, and I think so, and I repeat again, in order to return to the cultural and parliamentary forms of expression. While you are in the countryside, when you are trying to speak out loud for opposition rights, you are trying to debate all kinds of disenfranchise in different styles and volume here among the parliamentary benches, while it is happening in the countryside after 13 October, and also in Budapest, and, by the way, it is happening everywhere among your first actions, let us say, where your opposition wink from the new and budding love of the council and mayor's majority was formed, where you were not ashamed to give a committee seat to the members of the Fidesz, KDNP, who are opponents there, or not to give an external committee seat. You weren't looking for extra sub-Mayors, plus deputy mayors to be elected. You were not ashamed of the first decisions to have your own representatives raise their fees. By the way, you were not ashamed to make rules in this context that would take away the possibility in the municipalities where you are now in a situation of interpellation or the order of opposition contributions. Now, my dear gentlemen, in this situation, this does not happen, and there was no intention. It is about what my fellow Member said as a rapporteur, as he said in his speech, that, under the existing rules, by tightening sanctions, the rules in Parliament's debate and in Parliament's debate culture are indeed being tightened up. [[10.50]] We have not said that they are not strict, because of this behaviour, which is also evident in the night and here in Parliament, it is clear that you are now having some meta- and symbolic debate on opposition rights, but at the same time you are in your local governments, in the rural representative bodies, where you are in a situation after 13 October, and you are in a specific way destroying opposition rights. They don't give seats on the committee, they don't give seats on the external committee, they don't give seats on the board, they raise their own fees, they reduce the number of opposition contributions. Doesn't there seem to be some kind of conflict here for you? Here, fighting for all kinds of democratic rights, they are campaigning for their own otherwise unsuitable behaviour, I mean that it is perfectly normal for a Member of Parliament to rush up to the other, because I do not like what my fellow Member says, let us say, and I would not be arguing with Congressman Varju, but I would suddenly consider myself a Fidesz commando in this context, and I think or do not like what my fellow Member says, then I will not press a button, and I will say my opinion, as we have done so far, and I would hope that we will do it later, but I will run there with a different expression of opinion, one way or another, but I will show or I will say my opinion. So I think we're grinding in two completely separate mills. I agree with my fellow Christian Member on this, and we grind in a separate mill in terms of whether or not the other party can be persuaded. Just because you say I say so, and we say that the electorate sent us here, let us not forget that we are expected to do something, not to run to the presidential pulpit, not to allow the president to do the legislative work with all kinds of whistles, drums, violins in Parliament. This is what you have done, and I am listening here in the previous speeches to the fact that this law will prevent and disable the work of Parliament. It's completely different what the bill on Parliament's operation is about, and it's completely different from the mill you're grinding at. Now you're trying to use this to deal with, by the way, your internal disputes in many situations, or your debates arising from your coercion coalition, somehow disappearing, a little under the table, and now let's talk about how your rights are being undermined. It does not undermine the rights of the opposition to Parliament in any way, even if this provision enters into force, if it is done by a fidesz Member, it will be subject to the same penalty. [[Antal Csárdi: Lies!]] Since there is no such terminology in the law that it is an opposition or a pro-government representative. So from now on, as a lawyer, I think that this is only a legally incorrect argument from you. So just to sum up and remind you a little bit of why and for what reason this bill was submitted. I know my fellow members of the government said it last night, but let us say it again and again, since you are saying it, and by the way, you are bringing in absurdities in this debate, just as it is impossible that I did not want to respond to it, my fellow Member Mesterházy has raised certain matters here and who has behaved. Maybe if I bring up the Zuschlag case and the kind of press conference I think you should remember the most, it's not the place for this. So the example is good, but the example is actually good for us, too. I'm sorry. So what we are talking about here in this bill is that in this House, when we are having a political debate, the correct posture is that we are pressing a button and arguing with each other, that the correct posture is that, by the way, when the Minister or the Secretary of State does not like my fellow Member Csárdi, I say no. So there's a way to reflect, not go in front of him, and I don't know what it's like to blow a whistle or anything in his face. But you said something like that, Congressman. [[Antal Csárdi: Similar! Words! The president's ringing the bell.]] So you have the right to judge or evaluate the answer of the Secretary of State or the Minister. But the fact that there is practice, whatever the composition of the Hungarian Parliament, is that the opposition is invading the Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, representatives, or otherwise behaves in a manner that has been here in the last few weeks, I believe that there can be no way for Hungarian democracy to go forward. The debate, the dialogue in the form that has been practiced in this House for a long time, has been a decade-long exercise, so Hungarian parliamentarianism has not only a 30-year tradition, and not in this house physically, but in the Reform Age and then there have been serious and very forward debates here, without, by the way, a great love among the Members of Parliament sitting on several sides. However, the cultural form of debate and expression has found home in this House. What's happened now is this civilized form of debate, this rule, no matter what you say you're wrong, or I don't know why we're setting you up, you're the one who broke it. You have broken this rule, and we are still being asked to take account of what it is that it is at all, once again, about rethinking existing rules in order to preserve the dignity of Parliament and the dignity of Parliament's debate and the dignity of the civil debate, which, by the way, raise the financial items of the Members' behaviour and the sanctions for their conduct or the items of the sanctions. It is about tightening up existing rules. So we are now arguing that we should once again translate with you that you do not want to get away with the punishment that, under the rules currently in force, is due to your unworthy and sometimes very uncompromising conduct in Parliament. In closing, let me say this once again, because perhaps there is someone who is now following this long debate, whether online or in any way. Once again, here, before anyone believes it, and with any legal twist, you would mix the interpretation of the bill before us so that the rights of opposition representatives would be violated, let me repeat that it is not. There is therefore no provision in it which violates the right of opposition representatives to control or any right to information. It is, however, a violation of opposition control or any rights that you are doing today in the capital and in the countryside. That, in particular, is. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So if my fellow Member Molnár said that the presentation of the text is a reflection of how a body of representatives, a mayor, stands in the way of the operation, so-so that I can agree with that, then it could be said that the angle has come out of the bag in the countryside, where DK or other such conspired oppositions were able to make the majority, they have already shown their protein, and that is already the way it works. They're raising taxes, they're mowing opposition rights there, and it's like they didn't even have a promise before the 13th. Now, on which side of reality, truth and honesty are you on, I think that you can see from these examples, and if there is any hypocrisy, it is not that a bill is born to preserve the dignity of a House of such a history on the initiative of my fellow Members. The real hypocrisy is that you are talking about rights here, and in the countryside, you are acting like you are. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-20-463	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr János Bencsik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-464	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bat stopped a bit in me when I listened to the words of Congresswoman Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, who somehow expressed himself that we should still be happy that we have the opportunity to ask the government at all. [[Mrs. Czunyi Dr. Judit Bertalan: I didn't say that!]] We have an opportunity to interpel and why the opposition talks about silence when they have opportunities here. [[11.00]] This is a bit coincidental, or the alarm bell is starting to ring here, because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said on Monday on immediate questions that the opposition does not understand what he is saying, and then he doubts what else the point of immediate questions is. So I hope that it is not behind this intention, both the interpellation, the immediate question and the justification for the existence of other genres in Parliament, that we will start to forget, or then we should think about narrowing them down at all. The congresswoman, of course, referred to the cultural behavior in her comments several times. The point is that the standard of general political public speaking is as low as it is, and I think it may be the lowest since the change of regime, but you have had a lion's share in that, and especially for you. Not only here, within the walls of the House, but if you look at the public media, about which, if you look at the years before 2010, you can find plenty of objection, but the country has never had such a high-quality public media. If you look at the character-killing media platforms that you finance, against which both Jobbik and the other opposition parties win the press trials in a series, and you are able to take up these press trials with courage, because there are unlimited numbers of state orders, state ads that can be used to replace them, then we see that you are the ones who determine the level of public speaking, you are the ones who determine the quality of the debate in the public media and in the non-public media and here, within the walls of the House, which forces the opposition parties to react, who have a much more limited media and have the opportunity to speak. I agree with you that obsceneness is not a good answer. So I do think that it is the duty of every Member to maintain a certain moral, stylish attitude. I disagree with Congressman Hadházy's obscene signboard. So when you're asking or criticizing this, you have every right to do so. But let us add that, while obscenity, obscene, violent action or verbal violence are not good for the dignity of this House, while the possibility of a normal, sane professional debate within the walls of this House is constantly tightening, I think it is not possible to resent opposition politicians or parties if their protests are expressed in a formal manner, especially when it is a law such as the alien takeover of the soil, when Jobbik's representatives protested by taking the pulpit, or even the current obstruction. What I would like to say, and this is also linked to the fact that on yesterday's debate day, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa gave examples of the fact that when the motion for a dialogue was discussed, it was tried to perform as if it were something fantastic that the opposition could not speak, so it seems that if someone has a good proposal, then the government will allow it to be included in the series of subjects. I think it's the only time in the last nine years. That you should be proud of that or flaunting it as proof of democracy is just a recognition that it goes to some kind of curiosity. So it is not what is happening, which is the basic purpose of the Parliament and the legislature, that the proposals discussed at committee level are not in the colour of the party submitting it, but in the sense, purpose and usefulness of the proposals contained therein, we bring it in to the House, we discuss it, and then we make decisions, but if this happens by chance, that an opposition proposal reaches the point of entry into the series of objects, everyone will be thinking, "Oh, my God, how this can happen." These circumstances have been created by you, my pro-government fellow Members, it is up to you, because of the two thirds, and then I find it infinitely false to refer to the fact that, while there are no fundamental conditions for professional debate, and, where appropriate, the opposition is forced to voice its objection in a formal manner, which is why you are calling us to account for it. Again, not including obscenity and obscenity, because I agree with that. So, finally, I would like to ask you, I understand that you must defend the honour of the mundane, I understand that you must defend this unprotected law, but when you do so, at least do not do so on grounds of morality, not with moral instruction, splintering with moral thunder. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-465	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr László Hajdu. Here you go, Congressman. I would just like to point out that several people have made themselves known that the actual order of opposition will take place with the following Mr Csárdi, Mr Csárdi, then Mr Attila Mesterházy, then there will be a two-minute window, and the others will be classified accordingly. Thank you very much. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-20-466	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, We have been debating the proposal of independent Members of Parliament for more than ten hours now... [[For signal:]] Twelve, I'm sorry. In fact, the idea is that there is cooperation in this House between a Member of Parliament and a Member of Parliament, and what sanctions one Member of Parliament should impose on another. This is also a bit debatable that it is a distinction, since it is said and not clear, but it can be seen that this is only a sanction for opponents on this side. I can't imagine that in this sense and in the rigor that works here in the written bill, the pro-government can have the same standards and equal values. It's evidence of cooperation that there's no cooperation. There is a House Committee where it could have actually been settled earlier if they had allowed the House Committee to operate, if substantive matters could be discussed on the House Committee, and if this House Committee ever happened to come to Parliament together. In previous cycles, only rarely did the senior president say that we were discussing the subject of presidential power. In many cases, we discussed matters on the basis of the joint decision of the House Committee. This doesn't happen by chance to be able to come here. Actually, what we're arguing about here is cooperation or ultimatum. Therefore, I do not consider this individual motion to cooperate. It's a clear ultimatum, a lesson to teach. I think that the stamp that's just on the opposition is what we call serialisation, right, everyone has to tell it, from secretary of state to congressman, migrantism or pro-migration. So what is this pro-immigrant pro-Soros, I don't know what we are. This will be the type of qualification that you will receive in this bill, or the code that is not attached to what words should be used here after all, because it is not possible to know that at some address you need to address the lady, so what is the address, and what words should be brought into Parliament by the rules of Hungarian grammar. You don't know. Without a code, someone will know who will make the decision. So, on your side, they represent the true cause, and on this side, where we are, even though the uncredited are sitting, who can never speak the truth, representing a true cause. I've asked a number of questions, I've submitted an interpellation. There is a case that is happening in my constituency, but I have brought it up regularly here in Parliament, and I would like to mention to my fellow Member Czunyiné, so that this looks like who is pushing down the local Fidest or vice versa, who is planning a role for the locals, I think it is a very good example of this. This year's budget isn't even 9th in the district. [[11.10]] But I asked the Minister, the Minister of Finance, almost everyone in this matter both orally and in writing. I'm supposed to stick the idea on the wall right now. Maybe I'll do it, frame the style they answered. So my question concerns the fact that the annual budget did not pass before the body of representatives in the ratio of 11:10 to 1 vote. According to the law, to which the Members of Parliament have sworn on the spot, they have sworn that, in compliance with the law, the operation of the settlement... they have sworn their oath to do so. I'm on the spot talking to all the Fidesz representatives, spending hours, days with them, having lunch, having dinner, going everywhere, trying. There were these bargaining factors, which, I think, would have led me on a ledge, which was a cost if I got a yes vote, while we all swore under oath that for our settlement, where the voters gave us confidence, the operation, operation, development of the district... We also wrote to the State Audit Office, the Government Office, the Hungarian Treasury, the Ministry of Finance, and in essence, we contacted everyone responsible for the operation of public finances to help them. I went to the Fidesz executives, more than once. I tried to help us get a budget, and we couldn't move it. The whole government was calm, so there's no budget in this district, it doesn't matter much. Yeah, but if you don't accept the budget, you don't get a state normative. The annual normative of the district is 2.5 billion forints, but at that moment the government knew that it had to be suspended. To help me push a button, that's not what I'm saying. What kind of norms did this 2.5 billion forints mean? Nursery normative, kindergarten normative, social issues normative, including children with disabilities, elderly care, care of people at a disadvantage. Of course, at that moment, the government knew that legally it wasn't going to happen. But to have a legitimate budget, it's your responsibility to know who's helping who now. 'Cause you said they were suppressing it and they weren't giving you the right function. In our case, it didn't, because we have President of the Commission, everything is fine, I think, in the proportion that they are in the majority. That was also the problem that the budget did not pass. I got a mocking answer, and I don't want to quote it here, and I don't want to name the secretary of state who mocked me that there was no budget, but the whole point was that, well, you should be a better mayor or you should make a better presentation. I could've made any budget, worked it out, and I knew what they were trying to do. I think that we are also responsible for implementing the law here in Parliament. This law, a very important sub-sector of public finances, also applies to the implementation of the municipal law. If I couldn't influence the factions on this side, but you can, at least one person would have told the boys on the spot that the XV. district. The other issue is that on October 13, all the districts were lost by the local Fidesz people, and in eight districts, they had individual representatives until they lost 14, even in a region where, I think, four times they always won fidesz, the same thing in a row. He didn't want to believe he lost the election. So I think that this debate is also a little embedding 2022, but you do not want to see it yet. My other thought is bans. They can rule us out, they can ban us, they have financial sanctions, there's supposed to be a first degree, there's a second degree, but in fact, this flogging solution that we'll probably just get on this site as a domestic punishment, is a very, very small, childish solution. I absolutely can't put this in the channels of democracy. However, I must mention that as a member of Budapest, I feel that you have noticed quite strongly here that it is okay for you to get more votes if you add it up mathematically than the opposition, but it is a great pain that most of the university cities have been lost, and I do not want to list almost all the cities of the agglomeration in Budapest, which is a big city, have lost almost all of them, something that has never been left, also. So this is not just about the loss of Budapest, it is also about the agglomerational cities around Budapest, which have more than 10,000 municipalities. Here in Budapest, as well, in the so-called central region of the European Union, you have suffered a very great loss, and I believe that this is what last night's debate on public transport is about. I would like to ask you, I know that it is very difficult when something is presented, and it is also placed on order and order, but it is still not too late to suspend it for a series of negotiations, and then bring it here, to add a guarantee from our side. It is even possible to vote for that particular tightening up. But suspend it, this is very important for you in the long term, and let's try to pinpoint points that I probably didn't agree with, which you now refer to as a sanction, and in these, for example, in this code, for example, and then come back here with such a tightening up. It's for your own good. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-20-467	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Csárdi Antal from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-468	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Mrs. Czunyi Dr. Judit Bertalan! Dear Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry! I address you individually because I would like to respond to your extremely malicious, extremely thoughtless comment. I would like to say to my colleague Szatmáry that he must have noticed that I have not been a Member since 2006 or since 2008 or 2010. It's my first term, so I've been a congressman since 2018. So you're really telling me in vain what happened here in 2006 and 1992. Believe me, I don't care. I'm interested in what's in front of us. I have to add, and look back at the records, you can't find a record where I would have cursed, I would have violated the dignity of this House. So I think that this kind of slip, this,, we put everyone under the same hat, because it's comfortable for me, it's not gonna work. But there is a limit to hypocrisy, and I thought there was, but clearly there is no. Dear Congresswoman Czunyin. I am convinced that you are one of the most intelligent Members on the entire board. [[Csaba Hende: That's right!]] Yeah, I'm sorry, I didn't just say that as a joke, and I'm deadly serious. But compared to that, I find it very hard that you couldn't do a simple interpretation of the text right now, and I just hope you were wrong, and you're not trying to translate my own words out of a minor malice. Because I was talking about who violated the dignity of this House: those Fidesz Members who tried to stop Ákos Hadházy from showing the board to the point of violence. And I didn't make that up. [[11.20]] If you look at the President's decision, he fined 50,000 forints. Yes, I said that this measure of punishment was unacceptable, and I said this cynical remark that next time it would be that... he tried to highlight this part of his context, but it wouldn't work. But the thing is, Fidesz is in very bad shape with the dignity of this House. Madam Congresswoman was not here, but in the first two and a half hours of this debate, such quotes and similar quotes were made in a row for two and a half hours. István Varga said this to you in 2012. You motherfucker! This isn't a communist party! Mária Wittner said that in the same House. Correct me and let me know if these do not violate the dignity of the house. What are you talking about, girl? László Tasó said that. Doesn't that violate the dignity of this House? Don't bark, bitch! Erik Bánki, our fellow Member, said that. Seriously, let me know if this doesn't violate the dignity of this House. I think it's a violation of your dignity. As I said at a much earlier stage in the debate, it is equally a violation of the dignity of the party's response to a written question, a question, an immediate question. The Parliamentary Act, which we are discussing here, says that an answer must be given, a substantive answer must be given. Unfortunately, I have to say that the percentage of meaningful responses is below 10%. Yeah, it's against the law. Oh, you don't get sanctioned by the parliamentary bill? That's true. But I do not see this among the amendments, that they would sanction the Secretary of State or the Prime Minister with some kind of withdrawal of payment when he responds so much, in a meaningful response to Merry Christmas. I am setting this example because it is an easy-to-understand, meaningless answer to a real problem. That's not an answer, and the answer is in the least meaningful. I'm forced to return to 46/B-46/G... No, I'm sorry, I kept it hypocrisy. Congresswoman said that these wicked left-wing cooperation parties immediately increased their own salary. Right? That's what it said. [[Mrs. Czunyi is nodding Dr. Judit Bertalan.]] Thank you. Then I would like to remind you that on 8 May the Parliament was established in 2018, and on 17 June 2018 it adopted the law in which its representatives decided to increase their fees extremely significantly. Of course, you can tell us that because we immediately raised our own salary. But the fact is that neither the Democratic Coalition, the LMP, nor the Dialogue voted in favour and voted against this proposal. It's the truth. So I think it would be worth putting on a tiny pair of glasses and sweeping in front of our own house, and then it would turn out that, given the size of the Fidesz-KDNP Association, it was especially the Fidesz-KDNP Association, let us not forget the two-thirds majority who brought the significant increase to this House, just two months after the inaugural meeting. And if you've forgotten that, I'll remember now, if you haven't forgotten, then I think you're a hypocrite. But I don't think he's a hypocrite. I think you've forgotten, so I'd like to tell you. I think there are still no answers. Here I look at my fellow Member Mr Csaba Hende as rapporteur, that there are still no answers, that a legislative binding element such as the guarantee is where it is, which forces your political community to measure with the same standards. And before you say that it doesn't have to be in it, but it has to be in it, because you can see clearly from the case of Ákos Hadházy and our fellow Members who attacked him who committed physical violence, that while the Fidesz Members who committed physical violence received a fine of HUF 50,000, my fellow Member, who showed an obscene sign, which I think is not right, and I always say this to him in order to avoid mixing it, so that I agree with the obscene, obscene expression, but it was worth 300 thousand. So your practice shows that there are different standards for pro-government violations and opposition violations, and I therefore believe that we rightly expect that in the bill in which you wish to settle the dignity of this House, there should be the guarantees that eliminate this kind of distinction. Of course, you can deny it, but it's here factually. There is the decision to withdraw 300,000 forints, and there is the decision to withdraw 50 thousand forints. To add, the inaugural session was on May 8, and on June 17th, you raised your salary almost immediately, and here's the rusty prick, but I didn't count on it, I have to admit, this was a higher salary increase than any of the current local government salary increases. I'm not even gonna go into that slide that they were outraged about the mayors' salary increase, even though it's written down by law. In addition, it is included in the Mötv. that this must be decided by the body of representatives at the inaugural meeting. Let's add this because I think it's gonna be a little different for the girl. At the same time, I also know that there have been increases in salaries that I do not agree with, but I just think that we should bring this to the opposition, let's just say that it will be very subtle to slip. I think that it is your duty to have an exact, verifiable description of what is called a violation of the dignity of the sitting, because they believe that the authority of the Parliament is being undermined, because if these quotes I have said are not, then I would be very, very interested in what they are. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-20-469	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-470	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It would indeed be good if it could be said that in the last few weeks there has been a break in the excellent practice that there has always been a rise, culture and professional debate in this House, and that, in fact, since a sign was raised, this has collapsed. Before that, everything was fine, there was an independent Member who, too, I think, went over the line, was wrong, I think, he chose the wrong action, and he was punished for it, but from now on we have to draw a line, and from now on, the sun will rise differently here in the Hungarian Parliament, because from now on it is very offensive, so much invading the dignity of the House that you must now do something. I'd like that to be the case, because then the problem would be much smaller. By the way, yesterday our colleague from Bánya had a very fair approach to how there should be a debate culture in the Hungarian Parliament, by the way, how these things should be managed. I said it then, and I repeat that I thank him for this comment, and I fully agree with him, what he said in his comment. [[11.30]] My fellow Member, Mr Czunyiné, has said that you are, and you are, in this way. Congresswoman, make a difference. I'll make a difference, too. Not you and that. We know the principle of collective guilt in history. Some people act like that in Parliament, some people act like that in Parliament. Some of you yell at the Socialist Secretary of State that you're gonna hang out, some of you won't remember saying that. Some people put up signs that aren't right, and others don't put up signs like that. Some people do this, some people do that. Different temperaments, different powers of judgment. But the generalization that the opposition alone violates the dignity of this House, and you are arguing with us in an excellent, cultured, elevated manner, in accordance with moral needs, while respecting Christian morality, I believe that this statement could be strongly nuanced and nuanced by recalling some of the contributions from my fellow Members, which I am recommending to your attention and to your attention. He said he understood what this debate was about. He didn't seem to understand. Because if it were true that you would only wish to do so with good intentions that this debate in Parliament has risen over the next hundred years, culturally, whatever morals and moral standards it is, then why didn't you do so by sitting down with the opposition factions and negotiating the text in advance and saying that, ladies and gentlemen, there is a problem here that we see as a problem, this and this, how you see it, do you think that this needs to be changed, because we believe that this needs to be changed, we also have a proposal for it, let us talk about it in advance, so that a text that reflects this intention can come before the House. But the sincere intention is that you, well, want to raise the culture of the debate with some control measures. By the way, there are examples of this: when Parliament is formed, the factions sit down and discuss what happens in the House, what the membership of the committee should be, and what the distribution of many others should be. In a political declaration, they express their common will that this is how we want the House to function in terms of the structure. So there's an example, there's a tradition of that in the last 29 years. Since this is not what they did, it seems inevitably to me that this proposal is a kind of punishment, an ultimatum, as my fellow Member Hajdu said, and a kind of regulation of the opposition representatives, a kind of threat to Members that if they do not behave as you please... This is a very important distinction, and I'm afraid you must believe that unfortunately there is no trust in you, or I would say to the Speaker that we will share what needs to be shared with everyone on an equal footing. There have already been cases of people getting different punishments. I'm really looking forward to it when I have to say it? the Fidesz representative, who has escaped in the heat of the debate, will receive a similar ban and a similar fine as that that is usually given to the opposition. So from the literal letter of the law, of course, you're right that this will apply to everyone, but it doesn't matter to whom they apply and to what extent the letters that have been written in this current house amendment. I must also remind you and recommend it to the attention of the congresswoman, because I can see that they were very fond of their forgiveness, and I have written that we want to get away with what I don't know cheaply or dearly. Well, we can't get away with it, as the attached figure shows, because we are always being punished or those Members who violate a rule. So this isn't about getting away with it. It doesn't even occur to us that if we do any action here, we'll get away with it. They're watching us from behind the moustache, so there's no problem with that, we'll always get the punishment you're thinking about in the story. It is simply that we do not believe that this will be measured on an equal footing, and from that point of view, I think we are not very wrong. These opposition rights, Congresswoman, have been being closed for years, since 2010. It's another stage in a process, nothing more than our approach. Let me give you two specific examples, or three, which may not have been mentioned in the long debate. There are two committees that are mandatory, legally under opposition control, and there was a committee that was always under customary rule as a opposition committee. One is the Committee on Budgets, the other is the Committee on National Security and the third is the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please, what happened? What happened was that the Committee on Budgets was neutered. That's a opposition committee, isn't it? Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, should not be given an account now. [[Varju points to László.]] My fellow Member, President, now Congressman Varju is running this committee, you know that. I was driving earlier. It is very difficult to find a task for the committee, because everything has been removed from its Statute, so that this Committee on Budgets does not have a real control role. I still remember the times when we were in the government, and your decisive, professionally-prepared politician led the Committee on Budgets, and, yes, he asked very serious questions, and exercised his right to check the budget policy, spendings, and much more, as chairman of the committee, due to the Commission's tasks. We don't stand a chance today. When a minister, a secretary of state, was invited to a committee meeting at that time, it didn't occur to me that he wouldn't leave. In the Committee on Budgets, I do not know, Mr President, I have submitted a request at least fifty or a hundred times, a supplementary agenda in recent years, on whom we would like to hear. Do you know what happened? They didn't even send back the answer to in-beee, we're not going. They simply did not reply to an invitation to an agenda item in the Committee on the Budget of the Hungarian Parliament. They just didn't care. Who cares what the opposition wants? ! And you're saying that we should be happy that our rights remain, because we can interpellation. In fact, even by pressing a non-button, we can express our displeasure about the operation of the government. [[János Bencsik: Oops! That's something.]] Thank you. [[Defiance from the opposition's benches.]] Really! This is a strong opposition license and absolutely novel. [[János Bencsik: The little one must be happy too!]] I am happy for him, absolutely, but I think that these are not the only rights of the opposition in this regard. So one of them is this Committee on Budgets, which has actually been completely nullified in order to prevent it from performing the previously historically customary task that it had done in your time. The other one is the Foreign Affairs Committee. Indeed, it is not a law to have the Foreign Affairs Committee under opposition control, but, for example, when we were in government, this Foreign Affairs Committee was always led by opposition politicians. I would add that a well-prepared opposition politician, who was able to perform that task, was able to create a kind of balance in foreign policy, a kind of balance with his professional readiness in relation to the foreign policy aspirations of the Hungarian government. Today, no opposition politician is leading the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Today, this position was part of the acquisition because they said that if someone could no longer be a minister, he should be the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in case he is there, whatever professional knowledge he has, because the Prime Minister doesn't need it now, so he should sit in Parliament. Now, please, that wasn't the case in the past by custom. I would also like to say to you, Congresswoman, that I am sitting here in Parliament quite a lot, I am participating in quite a lot of debates, and I do not see that you would take this debate so seriously. I'll tell you how the debate goes. The author comes in, says it's either the government or one of our fellow Members from the government party. He sits down, we tear our mouths out here, and then the secretary of state stands up and tells us that we're stupid, and that's the end of the debate, and he doesn't answer anything. The fairer one, or rather the more serious one who takes Parliament's control powers, might answer a few questions. In fact, there is a secretary of state who really answers everything, right in the budget area, and gives professional answers. But this is the refreshing exception, which strengthens the rule, because you are not in any way involved in the debate in Parliament. They want to get it over with because they know that we still need to hear this, that the opposition is asking different questions here. There were times when I received the criticism at the committee meeting that they did not understand exactly why I was speaking and why they had to listen to this, that I was speaking at the committee meeting, and that I wanted to say my comment or my question. Until you change that, I thought I would remind the fellow Members of this house rule that there might still be an opinion. The same is true, which my fellow Member, Mr Csárdi, spoke about. I am a record holder of written questions in this party, but also in Parliament. Please, I have experience in this, believe me. We're not getting decent answers. We're not getting any! I understand that it has to be written down that the last eight years and when you've been steering me, I don't know, but then you just have to answer what the question was. The answer I get is to look at it on the government portal. I'll check it out, then it's not there, it's there, but it's not working, it can't be found. This is the best solution I've ever had when they wrote this back to me. Or I get the answer that the department doesn't keep records of that kind of information from its background institutions. I can't imagine. Can't a ministry ask his backup institutions for it? I'll write a letter to the back office and see if it answers in 30 days. [[11.40]] So you guys are always looking for ways to avoid any of your house rules obligations. I would add, when I was the Secretary of State yesterday, I said this, but once again, when we wanted to help the apparatus, we told them not to answer your questions at the great depths of Christmas, but to take a rest, and then they'll put it back on, and then we'll answer it fairly, then the Socialist Speaker threw these questions back, and told me that I was obliged to give more professional and professional answers to the Fidesz Members. For now, the situation is not in front of me when László Fat throws back Bence Rétvári's answer. It is in front of me that they write down to me that my question does not fall within Parliament's competence, so they do not have to answer it. I've had 20 of these before. Or maybe I've had my notes back after looking at the file, and there was only one sentence in it that wasn't crossed out, because I asked him about something so secret, that the contract was signed at that time and that time. This one wasn't pulled out of my own notes. But by the way, I have the right to have a look at it. I have the right to control the government's activities, as appropriate. The other thing I would like to draw your attention to in this debate is that it is often the feeling of the man that you feel that you have the right to look down on us that you are more than we do, you have some moral superiority over opposition politicians, or because you have just won your individual district, or because you have come from an individual area and not from a list. Márta Mátrai, for example, and I do not want to offend him, I understand that he has always been listed in Parliament, and Viktor Orbán, your supreme leader, also. I've always been on a list, but that's how the system is, there's people on the list, there's people on the list. I'd be more happy to get in on my own, too, but that's not the way it's been. So what I'm asking is that we try to measure with some level playing field, and you too are often right when you say that this act, this comment, this rating is inappropriate. I'm sure they're right when they give us examples, but believe me, we're right when we do. And if we wanted to change this together, we certainly shouldn't have chosen this method, and since this is the method you have chosen, so, Congresswoman, I cannot believe that the intention is sincere and that it is about what you are talking about. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-20-471	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dezső, the notary of Parliament. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-472	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I suggest that we consider two issues together between mutual accusations. One of my claims is that the internal relations in Parliament here accurately reflect the relations in society. I think that you should not expect a radically different attitude from the opposition here, while there are tons of dirt, dirt and thousands of hate posters pouring on people every day in the country. That's one of the things we should think about. The other is the word often said: dignity, respect and authority. I think that dignity and respect cannot be talked about as far as Parliament is concerned, as long as the pulpit can be done to provoke and humiliate opposition representatives, until it is possible from the Velvet Chairs to do so that the representative speaking on behalf of citizens is not appreciated for an answer. I propose to the author, for consideration, that dignity, respect and authority cannot be obtained, in my opinion, by order or by law.
u2019-11-20-473	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Here comes Congressman Csaba Gyure from Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-474	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It was my colleague Judit Czunyiné Bertalan who inspired me to make a two-minute comment. There was talk of public speaking. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: A muse!]] Yeah. I would like to quote from Mr János Áder's speech in Parliament on 8 May 2017, when he said that the quality of our speech has recently deteriorated dramatically. I don't want to focus on your responsibility, you haven't even started to look at who started it or whose it was rougher, but you have clearly said that the responsibility of the governing parties is greater in this area. So if that's what we're talking about, we should think about it. Then Judit Czunyiné Bertalan talked about the detachment, that opposition representatives were constantly deflecting. Let me just say that, compared to your Parliamentary State Secretarys, compared to the way they can steer, opposition representatives are Boy Scouts. There's just no such thing as a bigger artist than them. In the eyes of others, the splinters, the beams of their own, are not seen by the honourable pro-government representatives. Judit Czunyiné Bertalan tried to set us up in such a way that the opposition, where he came to power in a local government, was seriously amended and denied the rights of the Fidesz-KDNPs, because so, because so. Are we these dark evils? Let me just quote the inaugural meeting of the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county assembly, where a fraction can be formed from 3 persons according to the text. Jobbik, as the only opposition force, has three main representatives on the board, so it can form a faction, making it two factions, one Fidesz and one Jobbik. What is the first amendment proposal that goes through immediately? They will establish the faction for 5 people, and immediately there will be only one faction at the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County General Assembly. Well, that's actually very fair, and really, that's just what the opposition does. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-475	Thank you very much, Congressman. László Lóránt Keresztes is next. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-476	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In a two-minute comment, too, I would like to respond to the speech by Mrs Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, and I would like to return to what we started about an hour ago with Mr Csaba Hende. Congresswoman said that we wanted to steer the debate in a different direction, and that you spoke for a long time about municipal electoral aspects, municipal achievements, and that the opposition was under the same roof, and that everyone here was running around with megaphones, everyone yells, nobody listens to the members of the government. Congresswoman, I didn't run around with megaphon on one occasion. I also listen with respect to the pro-government speeches, the ministerial speeches, and the Prime Minister. I take the functioning of parliamentary democracy seriously. That is why I ask you, Congresswoman, to accept that I am now seriously concerned about the functioning of Parliament. I've come up with a line of thought, I've brought up a new point of view. If you cannot provide a clear guarantee, not by you, but by the authors, of the risk factors that the opposition has drawn attention to in a very many hours, then there is a problem. Congressman Csaba Hende said the answer I expected. It was possible in two directions: either it explains how these proposed amendments can be enforced in practice, or it states that they cannot be explained, states that they cannot work in reality, and then we get to what points need to be changed specifically. In my ordinary speech, I would like to talk about them. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-477	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Normal speeches will follow. [[Dr. Attila Tilki reporting.]] No. Attila Tilki asked to speak for two minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-20-478	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's an interesting feeling to listen to the debate. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It was even better at night!]] What I sense from the opposition is that everyone is actually dissociating, and you are defined as being different, he disagrees with what Congressman Hadházy has done. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We didn't hold the sign!]] and everyone in Parliament is afraid for their chance. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I am detaching him from you, from the physical violence you employ!]] That you won't be able to give your opinion. I'm an educator in my original occupation. I believe that Parliament's debate is a kind of pattern, and that Parliament's debate is being watched by working people from different segments of society. [[11.50]] Somewhere by what culture there is, we give samples to those who are watching us. And perhaps I agree with the things that Congressman Mesterházy has said, too, that we should look for how we can work together, although there are pros and cons, and everyone refers back, there are those who do not refer back, and he mentioned the Committee on Foreign Affairs as a Committee on Poaching. There are a lot of Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committees in Europe that have, by the way, pro-government presidents, and I find no such problem. There are some who have objected here, Mr Keresztes, that Congresswoman Czunyi has long described the situation of the local government, but obviously she has not mentioned that, by the way, MEP Hajdu, who is sitting behind her, has told us about it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention.]] what was the situation in your district when you adopted the budget, which, of course, you can agree with or disagree with, and I think that we should consider what an opposition group does in a budget, but what is really wrong with style. And perhaps I could agree with the DK representative here in an interesting way; if there had been a rumbling, it would have been different. Using the possibility of legislation is acceptable, but it is the style that we object to in this legislation. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]]
u2019-11-20-479	Thank you very much, Congressman. Normal speeches will follow. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has applied for a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-480	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, This debate is taking place in a very broad way, and allow me to respond to one more speech by Mr Mesterházy, if he listens. Perhaps you could have asked for a personal attack. [[Attila Mesterházy talks with Sándor Szabó behind the benches of his representatives.]] This case might not be worth it if it wasn't referring to a phenomenon. In an election campaign, Congressman Mesterházy referred to inexpensive provocation for me. Most of my fellow Members may not know the story, but this debate is long enough for me to share the details just because of the phenomenon. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention.]] The case is that there is a company that, after my father's death, I inherited 24 percent of it, 18 years ago, which since then, I have not taken any management or management. In the election campaign, one of my opponents then went into the store with a candy camera, which has been standing there for 30 years, and from the seller, I don't know, bought something with the candy camera for 280 forints. He didn't really wait for the seller to finish the operation, he left the store, and then he said he didn't get an invoice there. What he could have proved, of course, is that if he had proved this in his book of buyers, within any framework otherwise available, but he did not, he left the store, and after two days the opposition candidate held a huge press conference that I had not given a block. Congressman, this is what I call a cheap provocation that you have just mentioned here, which, unfortunately, is basically the same thing that you are not doing, but some of you are also doing here in Parliament. But if that's what I'm responsible for in this context, then I'm guessing you're responsible for that video in Kispest. So they had at least as much to do with the video in Kispest. [[Attila Mesterházy's intervention. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: And Simonka...]] I'm not an executive, and you're making a case and you're bringing it here. So I think that that double speech, and that, I would call it inexpensive provocation, which has happened in my case, if you interpret the responsibility of some Members in this context, then, even in the case of small-scale cases, I think that you should draw much more serious conclusions than I do from this case. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there may be so many, it is difficult to find, but there is so much forward-looking content that all the speakers here have otherwise agreed that the authority of this House should be restored. I'm sorry Congressman Csárdi isn't here. He also recalled my speech here. I regret that he is not interested in what was, by the way, in this Parliament in 2006, that on the basis of the examples at that time, I would have tried to demonstrate that, in addition to normal functioning, an opposition has the opportunity to express its disapproval of certain things even in style. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention.]] But once again, I am glad that we agree that we should try, and in this, I also say that there is a shared responsibility, so I think that no one has said on our side, and there has been even a speech that said that, indeed, as there are among opposition representatives, there are some people whose temper does not allow certain things, they allow certain things, and I think that there must be a norm here in this House, as in any other institution in the country. It doesn't make us less, it makes us more. Let me still respond, I have the opportunity to speak in a normal manner. Here, several opposition representatives, although I do not know exactly what the relationship is between the result of the current amendment and the results of the local elections in October, have not yet been able to decipher this from the speeches here, but in recent times in Parliament speaking about some of the districts of Budapest and Budapest, mainly my left-wing colleagues are trying to make Budapest look like something, I do not know what kind of trend or huge change would be. In fact, there have been a number of changes in positions, but allow me, as elected Member of Parliament in Budapest's individual district, to come from the centre of a district where our mayor was re-elected by nearly 60 percent, so that I may only remind my fellow Members of the opposition, especially of the left, very modestly and gently, that the Fidesz is still the largest and strongest party in Budapest. In view of the competition of the parties, most mayors were elected in Budapest with Fidesz or Fidesz support. Most of our candidates won no less than one vote than five years ago. So I understand your joy with regard to certain changes, but I would ask you to see the situation of Budapest a little more realistic, and the hundreds of thousands of people represented at the moment by the pro-government mayor or representative in Budapest. However, on their behalf, their attitude in their own speeches, please, or I could ask you to fit in. There was talk of committee work here, and I'm happy for you. I am working in a committee where there is, by the way, a better President, and I think that the operation of our committee so far is entirely based on good cooperation, and that no other fellow Members have, by the way, been members of this committee, debate, repression or pressure on the part of pro-government representatives that could have been interpreted in relation to the reduction of opposition rights. So I think that, just as for the pro-government representatives, opposition representatives have been given the current house rule and the conditions of operation to carry out the work of their representatives. I do not know when this debate will end, I have no illusions, but we are really trying to grasp what we have in common in this debate today. Let us state and find the best way to do so that the speeches, provocations that have grown and disappeared, with or without sanctions, are indeed inappropriate to Parliament. I think that this is the joint responsibility of all of us in this House. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[12.00]]
u2019-11-20-481	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group was Mr Z. Mr Dániel Kárpat. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-482	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the support of my fellow opposition Members, which will allow this debate to follow this day through the night. Yeah, the governing parties can't put this historical trash on the table, sit back, and then vote for it one day, they're gonna bring out the two or three offensive articles they're gonna get, and then they're gonna go on in a new system. There will be no such thing in Hungary, fellow Members. And the reason you won't be is because you should be thinking about a few years from now, and you'll be in opposition. [[János Bencsik: That's right!]] I'm not a psychic, I can't say that it's in 2022, maybe in 26, maybe sometime between the two, but I'm sure we're all in the opposition with the right measure in this room. There are some lucky people who are going to be in government positions, but the wind is coming and going, and I'm not sure that what you're working on right now, you're going to submit, which means you're trying to cut down opposition rights, it's not going to be your own victims. The thing is, there's a limit to change that, and I'm going to have you guys change that, right now, at the last minute, when you can. This can be done by withdrawing the proposal and launching a substantive debate. Let's start with what we can agree on. I turn to my fellow Member, Kristóf Szatmáry, the opposition may now throw stones or rocks at me, and I will protect Kristóf Szatmáry in the case he raised. So I believe that if you had done something in person, of course, you should answer and account for it, but if this has not happened, neither because of the actions of your family, nor because of the possible practices or honest attitude of your friends, nor in any other matter, you are not to be abused. And that is exactly the basis I think, when we should get to the point where we judge each other not by the actions of family members, not friends, not by the actions of the more distant environment, or by the other person, but by assuming that the other person is a legitimate, honest citizen of this country, he means well for this country. That's why I'm holding you responsible. Which is why I'm telling you that I find it disgusting when your pussy press sends a drone over my grandmother's head and starts filming. I find your actions disgusting when they write about me living in an 800 million-dollar villa on Peak Mountain, when I may not have been there as a tourist in my life. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been running a net Bolshevik, housekeeper-type, lukewarm footwater, disgusting lie factory for years! Well, why are you surprised, my fellow Member, that if, after such a case, you're circling, not close to me, not known to me, say, opposition journalist, activist, agent, to take the same pattern of behavior? It's been an industrial business here for years, all kinds of business in the lie factory. You've lost over two hundred press cases to the besties, and I haven't lost a press case because I don't start these campaigns with anyone, you haven't published articles about them. So I think that if you object to the reaction to the action and rightly object to it, I will always defend you on this issue, and I will now state this in the record, my request is that you at least consider that the level of Hungarian public speaking should be undermined by the operation of a lie factory, the destruction of elderly family members. And, of course, we'll win the press trials. We also know that some of the corrections appear as minus news on the.B. page, and it doesn't comfort us, and I don't like going to court either, but please, there has been a lie factory operating an unprecedented embarrassing campaign here for years. So when a Ripost and a Lokal can even appear in Hungary as equal press products, this is absolutely amazing! [[János Bencsik: They call themselves press products...]] They call themselves a press product, even though they are supposedly created from public money to discredit opposition players. Therefore, I will protect Kristóf Szatmáry in all aspects of this issue, but there is a result of this thing, and this is the destruction of public speaking. On the other hand, we should all fight, for example, in such a way that this lie factory, its operation, is completed. By the way, fellow Members, this also works in Parliament in such a way that a State Secretary does not stand up here and say that he is pro-immigration Jobbik, because he lies on purpose and in a rebuttable way. It is necessary to draw up two or three voting minutes, which show that the defence can only be at the physical border lock, it was a two-thirds decision because Jobbik provided these two-thirds with its votes. After that, if a secretary of state stands up and lies, why should they wonder if the level of parliamentary public speaking is constantly deteriorating when it is being debauched? And in my view, the dignity of Parliament is also violated by the fact that they are voting in a package, rejecting opposition proposals, as is the case with more than five hundred better amendments in the last budget debate. There are thousands of opposition ideas that are hard to believe would always have been made up of net crap. Let us look at what you have voted for in the package, and that if we are talking about the dignity of this House, I think it is worth tasting. They voted against the support of the IVF baby programme without any upper limits in the package, even though we are deeply in agreement that the most important issue to be resolved is the demographic issue in Hungary. They voted off the full support of people with rare diseases, the state support for housing savings; they voted off the rental program; they voted off the total cessation of evictions. And the fact is that if something violates the dignity of this House, it is precisely a violation of the fact that there are no substantive debates on these issues, and this is not about the various fads or passes of opposition representatives, and there are voters behind us, and they will feel that when they are in opposition, that you will have the respect that the voters behind you should have, because we represent the rights that hundreds of thousands of people make when they vote for a particular political community or party. I am deeply appalled by the fact that, since 2010, there has been a drop in public speaking, and we agree on that. I'm trying to catch what we agree on. But this can be solved with a Bolshevik-type housekeeper law, and it is impossible to change it, in my opinion, not only because this proposal will bleed out in countless forums by undermining the rights of elected Members, because it is not about individual Members. When we interpret these rights, we must always approach these things from a reduction in the rights of the voting mass behind us, and that is unacceptable. My fellow Member Tilki, while he was here, mentioned that he considered it important, as a teacher, to give a sample in terms of public speech, I deeply agree with this. I would ask you to start this modeling, for example, by not getting up and lying to a secretary of state when you say that Jobbik is pro-immigration and saying such nonsense without consequence. I would also ask that the president of the NAV, the president of the Mezőkövesd, and also the secretary of state, do not stand up and say: "Don't work, you! 'Cause it doesn't hurt my feelings, it doesn't hurt my feelings, it doesn't hurt my feelings, it doesn't hurt my feelings at all. That doesn't hurt me, I'm not a sensitive soul, I'm a crowd of voters behind us. And of course, there is a number war about how many people voted for in Hungary, but that is the most pathetic argument of elementary school 1.0, because it doesn't make anyone right. It doesn't mean that many people voted for him, and it doesn't mean that few people voted for him. As Members, we bring impulses in from outside, not here in the House to decide on the great things of Hungary, at most physically, but the impulses must be taken in from outside, and when we are not respected, the voters behind us are not respected. If a opposition doesn't respect you, it's the opposite. The fact is that when seven Fidesz MEPs use physical violence against a fellow Member of Hadházy whose board I myself cannot identify with, I wonder what double standards are, because I do not see the retortions that this political community, Fidesz-KDNP, would have taken against its own representatives; perhaps we should not call a penalty of 50,000 forints. What I think, humanly speaking, as a man of sport, what it's like to have seven for one, we'll leave it now, because it's not a parliamentary category. I would love to tell anyone in the cafeteria, but my opinion on this is not appropriate in the Chamber. However, I think that my fellow Member Szatmáry has made the point: yes, family members, relatives, acquaintances, and actions of friends should not be carried out on anyone for political reasons. It should always matter what happened, and what really happened, so it's the truth, and if we could get this far, then we could talk about giving samples. [[12.10]] The thing is, power is a very strange thing. You received this in 2010, and I have often said that the real face of a man begins to appear when he receives power. This is true on a class trip, this is true in a workplace, and this is also true in the Hungarian Parliament. So the mental-spirited mass of defect and distortion that has accumulated in this Parliament since 2010 is quite amazing, and I could name those pro-government fellow Members who, on the other hand, have been able to remain clean in this matter for a long time. Mr. Simicskó, former Secretary of State, before me a model tax, always a modest gentleman. I could, but I don't want to get people in trouble who I praise, so I'd rather not start a long register and keep no roll call, but I can see that 10 to 20 percent of the impeccable gentleman, lady, left in the pro-government benches, and no problem or criticism can come to his behaviour. This is exactly where we get to the point that, in the possession of power, which is temporary, elusive, volatile, one reveals one's true face. I don't understand you, honestly. I don't understand why, let's say, a two-thirds majority doesn't exercise some elegance. I would add that this would have political implications for you, but accepting a proposal from the opposition, let's say, to support the flask baby program without absolute limits, I say to you that the profile of the Fidesz-KDNP, which would not be very clear, would be massively cleaned. If you could get to the point that this petty, self-destroying, primitive,, we would not accept a little of the external opinion, and exercise elegance by at least becoming inclusive of national fate issues, and by supporting a IVF baby program, a proposal for SMA patients, or even a demographic package, they would take over, not only plagiarizing but, let's say, all parties would make a decision that this or that is good, believe that your profile would also be very clear. I expected from this debate that even if Fidesz-KDNP does not get here in its decisions, because there is faction discipline, I might be able to give a Member some thought to the fact that there is a limit of entrepreneurship for everything, as well as for opposition representatives. I think the obscene text on the board can no longer be accepted, and a pulpit booking on land law was a fair, honest historical stand. I've got the dividing line. I would very much like to have such a electoral line for my fellow members of the Government, and they could say, after a certain point, that when it comes to sick children or the future of Hungary, they will stand up even if their political families do not see this well. At the very least, they will pay for the punishment, but as a good, honest patriot, you must stand up on issues of national strategy where party discipline or protege, party logo, or party color should not count. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-20-483	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Lajos Oláh. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-484	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This day began just like the rest of the public media, full of opposition representatives, and everyone was asked to give their views on this debate about what the opposition thought. You, too, I think, feel at ease that opposition representatives are constantly called in, asked, and are given the same opportunity that you will receive every minute of every day in the public media, from one minute between the football matches to the huge end of the century monologues with billions of forints. Doesn't it bother you that this country is built like this? You are talking about hurting the dignity of the country, the dignity of the Parliament, what the Members are doing. No, my fellow Members, the dignity of this country and the dignity of the Parliament are troubled by the fact that you have created a country in which only you are invited into the public media. That is what must be removed, and that is what this law could abolish. It should be said, ladies and gentlemen, that Members who have contributed to this should not be able to vote for a while. So you've created a country where you can only hear your voice. You wanted to hide this law. They wanted to hide this law so no one could see it, no one could hear what it meant. I report that you have lost this game, you have lost it badly, our fellow Members and I have been able to make the time to talk about this law during the day. Insidiously, insidiously, they wanted to quietly execute this law at midnight, slylyly. How many of you from Fidesz have spoken that my friends, my fellow factions, are not supposed to do this, let's not do this anymore, and yet Christian morality and ideology are not supposed to hide, dare not to take our opinions, but at night, when the trams are no longer running, we will find a way to solve this problem in silence? Why didn't they speak up then? ! Actually, that's what really violates the dignity of the Parliament. But we're not surprised because you don't believe in an open debate. Viktor Orbán, your prime minister and party president, is fleeing any public debate, refusing to engage in any debate during the election period, in an unprecedented manner. That's what you learned from him. Let them be brave and dare to say, "Boss, it's not okay, stand up and argue if you have an opinion." If you have an opinion, but you don't dare, your mayors are banned, and then Tarlos says it might have been better to argue with Christmas. You must not be brave in hindsight, my fellow Members, but dare to debate, dare to express your opinion, and ask Viktor Orbán to give his opinion on this. You are not only opening up the debate in general, you are evacuating plenary sessions. They are not putting these important items on the agenda by midnight, but are trying to hide as many votes and debates as possible from the plenary session in committee meetings. This is not normal, my fellow Members. Why don't you say that you should say it here, let the whole country see who's opinion on different matters? ! You don't dare take their opinions! You cowards! They don't dare tell the camera what they think about different cases, and they're afraid that the country will see something that doesn't come from public media. You believe only in the image, and you believe that you can lead this country for a long time, as friends show in public media for 90 billion. But October 13th showed very clearly that this country could not be deceived for long, and then all mirrors would have to be covered at home, because they would not really be able to look in the mirror. You want to silence opposition parties who do not represent themselves here. Over 50 percent of the country voted for them! Oh, yeah, you changed the electoral law. We know that in previous governments, when we were in power, we changed the electoral law by asking the opposition and changing it in agreement with them. You guys were cowards to do a normal consultation on the electoral law. You yourselves have made the system that you thought would work for you, but it has been proven, my dear friends, that on the basis of this electoral law you can practically fail. Don't you regret the dignity of the country, ladies and gentlemen, when MTI, MTVA, constantly rejects the announcements of opposition parties that they refuse to publish them? Why don't you regulate that so that the Members of Parliament stand up and tell them their rights in such a case? ! Do you think it's normal for a statement to include the name of Lőrinc Mészáros, so MTI doesn't publish it? What country do we live in? ! Many of you would be proud of the dictators who have achieved a clear influence on the communication process. The Democratic Coalition, my fellow Members, will reach a hundred pieces this year in respect of the communications that you have thrown back that your prisoners have not allowed to publish. They write a very nice letter that, unfortunately, we have the right to do so under the law, and you have given them this right, you have created the opportunity, my fellow Members, to silence the reality of the MTI with state money, all of us's money, some of the Members, and silence the opposition parties. Why don't you be ashamed of yourselves, why don't you rebel and stand up so that you, boss, can change something, not your friends, not your soccer buddies, but let's do a regular public media? Therefore, if we get there in 2022, the public media must be abolished in this way. This support will be withdrawn from this public media, my fellow Members, be calm, and we will build a fair public media where you will be surprised, and you, opposition representatives, will also have the opportunity to express your views. It's gonna be unusual, because in the last few years, since you've been in government, you haven't seen anything like this. Didn't it bother you that during the election, you'll have five minutes for an opposition party? Do we live in a normal country? ! Aren't they ashamed when they go home to their kids and say, "Dad, you're the only people I see on TV, how is that possible?" Well, honey, that's the kind of country we've built, isn't it? I guess that's all you can tell them. [[12.20]] Among the petitioners of the law, honourable Members, there is a man who should not be here. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: Which one should be here?]] Someone asked me which one did. I might have a hard time listing it. There's a problem with VII. in the district, ladies and gentlemen, a fake party is marked with 341 signatures, 341 names and addresses on the Fidesz marker sheet. We've got two fake couples in a row, and your Fidesz marker thing doesn't match, but the signature doesn't match. We made the police report, the police ran out and confiscated it. He sat on it for a year, found a felony, but they don't know who did it. Why didn't you ask five people out of 341, my fellow Members, who you signed for, the Fidesz or the fake party? ! Then it would have turned out that Fidesz was handing over the fake couple to Fidesz. You don't even have the ability to face the obvious electoral crooks sitting in your ranks. Such a man has submitted this bill, which in itself shows that it is an illegitimate bill, an election crime behind this bill. 341 names, I repeat, 341 names, address sequences are identical to different signatures. Why only 341? You can ask him yourself. They're right, only 341, but it's because the police confiscated the papers and we couldn't see the whole thing. It might have been 670, fellow Members. But once again, it violates the dignity of the Parliament that there are people sitting among you whose affairs are not being investigated, and I will not talk about, for example, Flórian Farkas, who we have talked about quite a lot about here during the night with my fellow Members. The night Lajos Korózs said the following sentence: this system will end someday. Their fellow Members who were present at the time were upset that it was a threat, and under the new law, because of this very serious threat, Lajos Korózs may not be able to pay money for six months, because he threatened them so much when he said that this system would end. What's next? How does the dandelion open for three months? The primordial blooms, two months? Who determines what can be said and how many months can be withdrawn from Members, what will become of their voting rights? You are building a system that you want to build exclusively on the President of Parliament, the President that has been said many times, who has rewarded you with 50,000 forints that people here have physically abused a Member of Parliament. This law is suitable for you to continue to build the dictatorship, there will be no control, you will decide whatever you want to do, but I would like to make it more legally. Ladies and gentlemen, Believe me, power is finite, it doesn't last forever, trees don't grow to the sky. I suggest that if I do not wish to remove all the mirrors at home, then withdraw this bill, it is not too late. In the meantime, I can say that this bill, this debate, you have already lost. You sneaking around, sneaking around, wanting to vote at night, trying to close it at night. That didn't work. The whole country sees the horror, the horror you're doing again. Think about it. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-485	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, also comes to a proper speech from the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-486	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this debate was very lengthy, and it was quite volatile, there was quite a wave, and about two hours ago we were talking about very serious details, and now again a little more general, but that is not necessarily a problem. I would like to point out that, before continuing this debate with Hende Csaba, I would like to refer to some of my fellow Members' speeches. I was very pleased that my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, was also able to express as an opposition that he stood up for a fellow Member of the Fidesz, and he also devoted a great deal of time to saying that it is extremely important that we try together, so it is our shared responsibility to put debates within a proper framework. Similarly, I think that Mr Szatmáry has expressed positive thoughts overall, a little bit attached to Mr Hajdu, expressing that it would indeed be our shared responsibility to come up with a set of rules that, on behalf of all of us, could be a guarantee, a consensus guarantee, that the authority of this House, which has been undermined, I think there is agreement on how to make it right. Then I would refer back to the debate that we started about two hours ago with Mr Csaba Hende as rapporteur. Unfortunately, there is no rapporteur here, and I hope that she will come back, or that Mrs Judit Czunyiné Bertalan is not here. I introduced a new aspect of the debate, we talked about a general justification, a political wording, what is the essence of the proposal for you. So you have said that the dignity of this House has been seriously damaged and that you are trying to present a package of proposals that will give you the opportunity to keep Parliament running properly here. I also said that there is no agreement in that, but we can see that, yes, the dignity of this House is damaged, but there is no agreement on what, why and who, what points and what actions are caused by it. However, it is quite clear, and I have listed several examples that there are no concrete guarantees in your proposal about how and how existing problems will be dealt with and addressed, but in return there are very serious and serious risks. Congresswoman Czunyiné and Csaba Hende also said that they argued that there were no new sanctions, that there were no restrictions on the rights of opposition representatives, and that the existing sanctions were accompanied by more serious penalties. That statement is completely untrue! By the way, in the last very, very long debate, I have not heard any opposition representatives who were concerned that more money would have to be paid in those sentences. No one's talking about it. It is precisely that the rights that this proposal can take away, which, on the other hand, are linked to very important obligations, can be taken away. So the Member of Parliament has not only rights, but also obligations. It is our duty to carry out these tasks, and your proposal is wrong, because it can create a situation, i.e. many situations that make it impossible to perform these duties. I have asked Mr Hende, referring back to these detailed list of errors, to finally respond as rapporteur to these very important opposition proposals and to explain in detail how these proposals, the points of these, can be implemented in practice. I have given many examples, and Mr President has stood up as rapporteur and has given the answer that these cannot be explained. I worked as a programmer for a very long time, using flow charts. It is quite clear that there are two directions, so either they can explain and either they can make themselves believe that these are practical points, or if they cannot do so, then you acknowledge that these are not well formulated proposals, these points are dangerous, bad, faulty and risk the functioning of the Parliament. Then comes the other version: they must accept that they are defective and accept that these points must either be deleted or amended. I think that this was a very, very important, essential element of this debate, that Mr Csaba Hende stood up and said that these are rules or opportunities that cannot be answered for practical application. That's what the congressman said. So we were going in a direction where you have already recognised it, on the one hand, in her previous statement, and at some point in the middle of the night, she acknowledged that these proposals do not concern the functioning of Parliament in general, but the regulation of the work or behaviour of opposition representatives. We can conclude this debate by saying that this is the essence of this proposal, and we can now conclude the debate on whether this package of laws is good, whether this package of laws can be used in practice. Turns out it wasn't. And then let's see. I think it is our job now, and here again I can only refer you back to common responsibility, our task is to put it on the table, which points must be amended. Obviously, it would be justified for the rapporteur to withdraw his proposal. There have been a number of proposals to withdraw this proposal, then to have a kind of consultation, and I feel the desire to make a consensus proposal out of it. I do not know that there will be openness on the part of the authors, and I do not see at the moment that there is one of the relatively many pro-government authors here, but it is up to all of us, all of the Members of the Parliament, to review these points, to see these mistakes, to put them on the table, and to try to do something with them. Well, as a new sanction, the institution of disbarment, the institution of disbarment in a way that bans Members not only from the building of Parliament, Parliament, but also from other buildings related to the Office of Parliament. And that's where the question came in: how to, how to enforce the vote in practice. Here Mr Balczó also analyzed in detail last night how one can represent one person's vote, how one can vote in place of two, do not give, God, 3-4-5 representatives. And I didn't want to repeat it, I don't want to repeat myself in any way that there could be a situation where opposition factions could be ruled out, or even the entire opposition excluded, and then there would be a theoretical possibility that the pro-government representatives would vote instead of the opposition, and then what is the guarantee that they would actually cast the vote as ordered by the opposition representative, and if that doesn't happen, what will be the penalty? [[12.30]] But it is likewise an obligation for the Parliament, and unfortunately it is very closely linked to the dignity of the Parliament, that it is prepared to come to the vote, to obtain all the information on which it can press the button with honor, honor and real responsibility. This requires consulting experts, accessing information sources, accessing Parliament's buildings and other service institutions. If the ban makes this impossible, the Member will not be able to vote responsibly even by way of such a long-distance relationship, acting by delegation. Obviously, what you can't do is e-mail the voting code of one of the factions to one of the ruling party factions, and then they'll press the buttons. It's unthinkable. Similarly, Members have an obligation to make proposals, to make proposals for amendments, and to hold debates on them at various Commission levels. This cannot be done in practice on the basis of your bill. I would like to ask my fellow MPs present in this debate to reconsider what I am saying, perhaps press a button and make a suggestion, or if any of you know the answers to these questions, then we would be very happy, I think that all opposition Members would share with us how you imagined this in practice. But here's another point. There are a lot of individual congressmen, aren't there? If someone has an office in their constituency, an office where they keep in touch with the citizens of your constituency, does that ban apply to this office? Specifically, a parliamentary representative of a single mandate constituency cannot enter its own office, can not keep in touch with its own voters, can not do its job. You do not receive the impulses, information that you need to see the problems, make suggestions from them, get no professional assistance, get no information, consult your colleagues, and not only can you not vote for yourself, but you cannot issue your voting rights even with instructions in this way. So this proposal, I repeat, is seriously risky. It contains many elements that could make the work of the Hungarian Parliament impossible. And here, I repeat, fellow Members, it is our joint responsibility to make it impossible for this proposal to be adopted by Parliament in this way. Congressman Tilki is here. We are talking here about how to restore the dignity of this House. The Member asked a question whether or not we are separated from the action that was, in effect, the root cause of this long-term debate. I myself have said several times, perhaps even in my speech as a keynote speaker, that I do not agree with interfering in this way with the functioning of the Parliament, and I do not agree, in particular, to hold up obscene expressions in Parliament on a board. But, Congressman, I think it is even more serious, even if it is not a taste, and it is not compatible with me in respect of the rest, and I have never done it, and I would never do it, but I find it much more serious that Fidesz MEPs stood up, came here, and took the board from Congressman Hadházy by force. Then, since I feel that Mr Tilki has also spoken constructively to this debate, I would like to ask you back. I'll tell you what, I don't agree with you running around with megaphones, I don't agree with the fact that we're gonna stop this Parliament from working. Attention, yes, it can be done, sometimes very, very important, but also within the appropriate framework. But I'd like to ask you back, Congressman Tilki. I'd like to ask you what you think about the fact that 7-8-10 of the brave congressman here went up against an opposition representative and took a sign out of his hand using strength and physical violence. After witnessing a wrestling here, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also tried to take the board from Ákos Hadházy using physical force. And yes, they are talking about tightening up, while there are a lot of new elements in the proposal, but even the existing rule currently in force was not applied by the Speaker when he could have done so. He would have had plenty of means to stop this operation, to ban Congressman Hadházy from sitting. He didn't do it. He spread his hand, leaned back, and waited for the Fidesz SWAT team, the Fidesz bouncers, to move in, and this operation could happen. I would very much like to ask either Mr Tilki, or any of the MPs of the Government, for such a clear separation that they consider this unacceptable, and they do not want to see it again in this Parliament, so that either opposition or other pro-government Members may be physically insulted. I think that this is extremely serious, unacceptable, and if there really are so many consequences that these Members can get away with 50 thousand forints, that is a serious violation of the dignity of the Parliament and, by the way, it gives this country a very, very bad look. Then there are other problems. I have already mentioned that there are no concrete guarantees, and I do not see in your proposal how you will be able to solve the many problems that my fellow Members have already talked about, that you will not give an answer, that you will not give a fair answer by a particular minister, that the Secretary of State is in favour. A secretary of state, who would be responsible for the fair presentation of a government referral, participate in the debate on it, begins to read or say party political speeches. That's quite unacceptable. What can the opposition do with that? Is that acceptable to you? Where is the amendment, the intention not to do so, anywhere in this proposal? Congressman Mesterházy spoke very long on the written questions, he really gave thousands. I've seen them, they give me amazingly gloated answers, and most of the time there are abusive, unreal, inappropriate political blubbles. So we're sending in a written question, say, to a miniature, and it looks like that letter is being transmitted to some kind of communication center, and there's an automatic response from such a fidesz text generator that you're, I don't know, Soros hire, whatever kind of pro-immigration, who are suffering because your party is in a very bad situation. That's amazing. How can a Member of Parliament be responsible for his work? I would very much like us to maintain this constructive tone and to express, any of you, fellow members of the Government, that you do not agree with this. As an example, Mr Orbán said in reply to my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, that he had said that he had a merry Christmas. This is unacceptable. But it does not appear in these proposals how and how it can be eliminated. Similarly, it does not appear, we can see the sanctions for the various absences, how and how it will be possible to justify a real reason for missing, and how I, as a group leader, will be able to demonstrate that my fellow Members were indeed unable to take part in a vote or a meeting for real reasons. And, by the way, let me say here that, yes, this is also a legitimate criticism to my fellow members of the opposition and pro-government, that if someone speaks out, if they make voting difficult, then they should use the duty of voting on the other side, so that they should be here in the votes. But, fellow Members, I do not see how this can provide a solution to the fact that it is typically the members of the government who do not attend committee meetings, do not speak to them at meetings, do not participate in debates at night, do not make proposals. At times, a text assigned to them in an interesting system is read, and their parliamentary presence is complete. Obviously, we're less aware of what they're doing in the constituency. I also think that this is a serious violation of the dignity of the Parliament, and there are no warranty elements for this. So, overall, I say that there is no other solution, because in this long debate, the presentation itself, which has been very well represented for the last hour, Csaba Hende tried, first of all, to escape the answer to these specific points, in which way the functioning of the Parliament can be preserved. Then, in one of his last speeches, he said a round pretzel about my clear-cut question that he could not answer these questions. So Csaba Hende, appointed by the authors to represent the debate, has already acknowledged that these proposals are not good, these proposals are wrong. On the other hand, the crowd of my fellow opposition Members said that there have been many or more events, even on the part of opposition representatives, which they do not necessarily agree with. I feel the constructivity of the opposition side to have an intention, to outline a proposal that can create consensus on this issue, and we can do it together. I think this would be exemplary, and Hungarian society would also reward this, if we could take steps together to really suspend this negotiation, withdraw this proposal, initiate a constructive consultation with opposition groups on this problem. I think, and I can say for my part as a group leader, that we will take part constructively, we will take part in such a debate with honor, so that we can come up with a consensus proposal that can, where appropriate, pass through with a very, very broad support. And then we really took a huge step to restore the authority of the Parliament's operation. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-487	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-488	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to say hello to the only congresswoman, excuse me, now two. Well, I'll do it one last time. I really do not wish to take part in this debate again, unless it is personal, but I would like to summarise once again what the problem is and what the problem is. I would like to give you very, very plastic examples. There's a story about a husband and his wife going fishing. At noon, the husband rests, and his wife goes in the boat in the middle of the lake with a book, and there she begins to read. The fish guard goes that way and asks me what you're doing here, ma'am. He sees me reading and sunbathing. But do you know it's forbidden to fish here? I'm telling you, I don't fish, I read and I sunbathe. But you have the device. I'm forced to report you. Now, if you turn me in, I'll sue you for rape. But I didn't touch you. But you have the device. [[Defiance.]] [[12.40]] What I'm trying to say is that there's going to be a situation where we don't know exactly what anyone who's sitting up there on the pulpit actually thinks about the situation, the situation that's happening here. I think that in the last few hours, my fellow Members have tried countless examples of this, who are more courageous and perhaps more solid. That's why I think it's important that we repeat that when you pulled this drawer out and saw a whip and a sugar, why did you have to touch the whip right away? Why is it really not that there is a situation that we are going towards, clearly in politics we are not going to show our own values, but rather to see what separates us from each other, and this inevitably leads to conflicts, why not at least try to deal with it in some form here in this House? I really do accept the sentence of Congresswoman Czunyi, who started this. Indeed, this may not be necessary to discuss at this level. But, for example, I am very inclined to take the initiative of my fellow Member Szabó, so let us try to address ten simple people on the street in a random way, not the Pesti Guys and not the M1 TV, but simply ask who he thinks is causing who it is that the public speaking and politics have gone a little rough in this country over the past few years. Well, what does it look like from there? I would like to present you with a simple psychological experiment. Take a look at the number you're seeing here, which I'm showing you. [[He's showing me a nine drawn on paper.]] I'm sure you understand what I mean. If I look at it from here, I see a 6. The thing is, the world seems to be looking from there, but this is the other way around. [[László Varju: Forbidden instrument.]] What? Did I use a forbidden device? Excuse me, I'm gonna need you to cut this out. [[Defiance.]]
u2019-11-20-489	That's the president's authority to judge. Go on, Congressman. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2019-11-20-490	Thank you very much. One more leap from here was to think of our brilliant prosaic writer, István Örkény's one minute. This has a complicated, long title:. We understand each other well in the most complicated things, but sometimes we do not understand each other on simple matters. It starts with "Hi Hands, can you buy an inflatable rubber mattress here?" What do you like? Isn't this the green booth that rents the Home Trade Department? Yes, I do. Then I'd like a rubber mattress. You know the story, I don't want to tell you the whole story. So what I'm trying to say is that we should try to get out of this whole round, and as my fellow Member Olah said, this match has obviously been lost today, so it couldn't have been done quietly between 22.45 and 23 o'clock. We're here, we're slipping into the afternoon, and those of you who came to protect the local government are gonna have to wait a little while longer to do that. Now we're protecting democracy for a few minutes. I think it might be worth going home for a while, thinking about it, having a weekend, and then next week, let's see if we can do something about this law. Last thought, I'm just gonna say that tactically. Let everyone understand, however, that the policy toolbox has developed over the last thousand years. Obviously, we rarely start wars today, thank God, here in Europe, but what tools of politics are in power, and what kind of tools the opposition has in politics, there are quite classic rules. Then, if every single instrument, which is otherwise classically available to the opposition, closes, ceases or does not work, I must say that there are inevitably the kinds of exclusions that you have experienced here in the past, either as individual actions or as community actions. It has been fashion for the last 12 hours to see who has been in this House, I have been sitting here in 94, and there are others who have been longer, and I remember the time when the sentences spoken at parliamentary committee meetings had a lot of publicity, a lot of weight, a lot of significance, and the parliamentary committee meetings were policy forums for an area that was really serious, very prestigious. If you made a mistake there or said a wrong sentence, you used a bad example, you could, indeed, fall very seriously on it. Excuse me if I say that with hard work we have achieved in recent years, I do not want to accuse you in any way that, in fact, Parliament's plenary session has narrowed down to speeches before the agenda and to an hour when the Prime Minister is inside. Everything else practically doesn't even correspond to an expression that looks elegant and in some way professional. Our common interest and shared responsibility, I believe, is that if we want to be here at some point, at some point, when we have lost and everyone has won once, and we are past the state of affairs, and the moods have calmed down a little bit, then perhaps it is in our interest to maintain a really serious and efficient, high-quality parliament. I hope I haven't kept this House's work for too long, thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-20-491	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I would like to address Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm from the Jobbik Group. I'll wait for him to put the microphone on. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-492	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I was here at night until 5:00 a.m., and I followed this debate through. I must tell you, I think that we are all Members only, by talking about this issue in the last few hours, we have already won. Many of you were not here last night; indeed, there were moments when my fellow Member Böröcz stood up, who we know was more of a disparaging of the opposition in the last year and a half than a kind of professional work. Even he has reached the moment to say that he is indeed in the benches of the opposition, especially in the community of Jobbik, there are people whom he respects very much because he sees his work and is practically happy to work with him. He, who seems rather responsible for trying to weaken opposition representatives with certain populist texts. We also got there at night, at about 3:00 a.m., that our fellow Member Gábor Bányai gave a very emotional speech, and the point of this was that we should somehow break down this terrible wall between ourselves and start a dialogue with each other. If we have a problem with this law or this resolution proposal, then let us start thinking together about how these anomalies or these excessive behaviours could not be in the House. Several opposition representatives jumped on this style and the text, and we assured them of it, as well as the other Members present, pro-government representatives, that they would find their ears open in this, so let's just get started. So I think, in a proper speech, I'll tell you about the night that we've all won, because we've finally talked to each other about what our problems are and what we need to change. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-20-493	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Gergely Arató of the DK Group for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-20-494	Mr President, Dear House, When we started this debate almost 14 hours ago, we wanted to achieve that, in the case of a decision of a weight which basically determines the functioning of the Parliament, it should not be what happens at this time, that we push this debate somewhere, and that it is quickly closed, and that, in fact, there is no way for the public in the country to know what this debate is about, to know what the stakes are and to understand what the most important difference between positions are. In this debate in the last 14 hours, I think there have been many arguments on both sides. But it has become very clear the fundamental stakes of this thing, and we consider it to be a great success. Because there are two perceptions here, and I would add that there were some of my fellow Members who represented the notion that the administration of the House's affairs, that there should be a more workable, more calm, more consolidated life here, a real legislative and real political forum, that can be achieved if we work together, if we look for solutions together. [[12.50]] Of course, there were a lot of people on the Fidesz side, on the government side, I'm sorry, I sometimes forget about KDNP, who represented you that I don't care what the opposition wants, we have two thirds of them, we push them down. Sooner or later, you will have to decide on this matter. They can go on the second path, they can go on the path of force, but the answer is strength. We represent our constituents, not your needs. We propose that we withdraw this proposal and return to the first road, to the path of compromise, to the common set of rules, and to work together on a new proposal that is acceptable to all. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-20-495	Thank you very much, Congressman. We're going back to normal speeches. The first of the DK Group is to speak to Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-20-496	Thank you very much. Luckily, life also brings me to remind you of my fellow Member Arató's thoughts, and now, first and foremost, our fellow Member Mrs Czunyi, that we are involved in polemia, which is about hypocrisy, and what we really think of this, how we should think about it, that here in Parliament, when the Fidesz fraction does something or does something to represent us in this proposal, what our relationship with this is really like. This is what I said: yes, it is a huge hypocrisy that they are doing, and it could actually be done with another word, and to the few fellow Members who say that yes, there could be some sort of solution, then I could say with a little exaggeration that the next word could be a compromise, which is really about the need to withdraw this bill, and to have a consultation with the opposition, which will result in the adoption of a new regulation and related legislation ensuring the dignity of this House. But in order for this to happen, to go in this direction, we all know that a gesture must be practiced. And the only one who can practice Gestheus in this is that he wants to push it through by force, but instead he thinks about it, stops, and he does that, yes, he will talk to others about it before he arrives. In this way, it is difficult to direct my thoughts in this direction, that I would like to go on this path, while I see that a debate started 14 hours ago has been interrupted, pushed into the night, and that the night must be discussed to make sure that, in the course of today, yes, everyone is clear how you do it, how you organize it. This is called a gesture and an intention to, yes, win the opposition here to be cooperative, a meaningful story, I think it is at least unacceptable, or none of us can imagine. Plus, it's another way, and then I'm gonna have to use another word, because then I'm gonna add that it's a false hypocrisy that you're doing, and that's what's really unacceptable. I'll give you two examples. One example is that of Győr. Your congressman mentioned it, I think it was Mr Szatmáry who said that everything was won and that everything was actually fine in Budapest. Well, I don't think it's okay. He has won the capital with several mayors of the opposition, several representatives, and there are many rural cities where this could be. But if I understand what Congressman Szatmáry referred to, it is behind him that he proudly announced that Fidesz was the one who was able to perform this performance as a party. Well, after that year, after he swallowed the MDF, he made the small owners disappear, had them shut down, and, by the way, called the KDNP to the Kalpa; so I agree, if you think so, Mr Satmary. But I don't think that's the merit. Instead, we have to face reality. Now, the other thing that has come up in this debate is that you are actually authorising all the rights, and that is what most of you have represented in the whole debate, that you are giving us all the driver's licenses, and let's be serious, that the question is, in fact, to get away with this story cheaply or expensively, because Members' licenses have not been compromised at all. Well, I'd just like to draw attention to one. So now I can go back to MTV as a checkup, right? There is no problem after the adoption of this law. Just because you said we wouldn't have any driver's licenses here. I respectfully point out that the visit to the institution and indeed the control behaviour which is a fundamental right of Members as elected Members, that you are undermining, that is what you want to limit, so let us say that this is the law of mouth lock, that it should shut up! It's a law, and you want to go on this path, and it's very difficult for me to think from here on out that you guys, in any way, think you can come to some kind of mutual agreement. Instead, I see that with a false hypocrisy they have begun to moralize here, compared to the fact that we could make some sort of order, rules that would otherwise be mutually compatible. As long as they act in this way, and do the same, either with the electoral law or with the media law, and thus abolished constitutionality and abolished the constitution, this method, this technique, is unacceptable. This is the party state, and that is what I think we will always say as a criticism of you. The opinions that have appeared in recent times, whether as a legislative proposal, have been taken into account in such a small number that, in fact, I think it is difficult to speak of the four in itself against the many hundreds that you have shredded in this way, and in nine minutes you have put us in a ready situation in this regard for three weeks or three weeks. Parliamentarianism with these methods is unacceptable, and then we can talk about the decency of how we behave now, well, I think that's when I'm right when I'm talking about hypocrisy, your hypocrisy. Therefore, in order to understand this situation in itself and what my specific proposal is, I will join those who say that you will withdraw this bill and prove that they can and want to do something differently and try to start another way. One of the things I can say about this job is that most of the segments that can cause damage have been excluded, because the government is not here, and those instructions are now not directly here, but instead the Members of this Parliament can come to a common denominator. So my proposal to withdraw this proposal after this eleven-hour debate is not to force it, because it does not make any sense in this way, and it is very harmful, and therefore unacceptable to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2019-11-20-497	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea. I'll wait for Congresswoman to adjust her microphone so she doesn't interfere. Thank you very much. There you go. You have the floor. [[For signal:]] Please restore your microphone time to the congresswoman. [[It's happening.]] Here you go. [[13.00]]
u2019-11-20-498	Thank you very much. I hope that by the end of the debate, I would like to give a little summary of what happened here last night from 11:00 to 1:00 this afternoon, which is actually 14:00. It was extremely offensive in itself to have the general debate of these two proposals stopped 24 hours ago, to have his trial suspended after the keynote speeches, and to have a general discussion of all other legislation so that those pro-government representatives or representatives of the government could go home at a convenient time, and that Members who were interested in these two topics could start this debate at 11 a.m. I think, and I think that you think the same thing, but you just don't say it, it's extremely humiliating. It is impossible that after a whole day of negotiations, otherwise after the two very long days, the meeting ended on Monday at 11 p.m. on Tuesday evening at 10 p.m., on Wednesday morning at 9 a.m. they were able to run the main speakers, and then resumed at 11 a.m. This in itself is humiliating to start talking about such serious matters overnight. Let me give a little summary to the Members who weren't here last night about what happened here in this House. Of course, representatives of opposition parties have said the extremely obscene, obscene, subpar grievances which they have said to opposition representatives, to a large extent women, without having any consequences, not even a warning. They did this because they wanted to show what double standards there are in the House today and in recent years. If a pro-government representative treats an opposition with no reason, because they are discussing some current issue, or there is an opposition before the agenda, or an interpellation or any question, genre, there is no consequence, while the pro-government representatives are being discussed. I would, in fact, like to condemn this proposal to Silentium. Then imagine, in the course of the discussion, one of the pro-government Members did not resist giving us a great insult, calling one of our fellow Members a lunatic. That was night, too. And the present pro-government vice president didn't warn me of that either. So we have shown in person why these grievances were justified in the course of the trial of this bill. It was a good thing that she was finally here, although it was not easy to put up with the long series of talks of the night, and she said, in a very hypocritical way, that she does not like the way the opposition is acting now, because she is expressing her grievances, because she is presenting the events that have actually happened here in recent years. Then I asked him to speak, and I told him that if he was so sensitive, and he did not even like to hear opposition representatives quote from the minutes, he should do so if the dignity of this House is so important to him, why he never apologized to opposition representatives and many women who were hurt in a very harsh way on behalf of the Fidesz faction. I asked him why I didn't get an apology letter from him on behalf of Fidesz-KDNP, when, for example, a few months ago, I got that rude insult from a fellow Member from KDNP when I gave the keynote speech at the pulpit that I managed to climb up there because it happened. So I saw that she had waived further hypocritical excuses. Our fellow Member of Kunhalm brought newspaper articles here from 95 years ago in November and December 1924 when we learned from the newspaper articles: 95 years ago, the same thing happened in this Parliament as it is now. This is exactly what the then pro-government majority put forward to regulate the opposition and to show as little opposition or opposition in the House as possible. It was quite shocking. At the time, I must say, there was also a strong silence from government representatives when they had to listen to history come back, because it was exactly the same thing, just 95 years ago. Then I explained why such a powerful governing force and pro-government group would think that the opposition would bear without a word the mass submission of its fully justified legislative proposals, proposals to amend the proposals submitted, proposals to ease the lives of various extremely difficult groups of society, with incredible professionalism, emotions and integrity, when we turn to Members at committee meetings with purely professional arguments, in a normal voice, and never put any of our proposals into a series of subjects, and when, in the proposal for the most difficult social groups, all the pro-government Members put up with how many of these pictures to vote on both of their hands! Do you really think that the opposition will not start looking for a better way to draw attention to the fact that this cannot go on because it is certain that the opposition cannot be so stupid that nothing can ever be taken from it? ! I remind you that I sat in front of the Prime Minister's room in July 18 for two reasons. You did not answer my question about stopping mass evictions and you did not answer the question of home care. Then the pro-government band, which couldn't be called the press, tried to discredit me by having fur coats, 50 million fur coats, even though those two topics were important. My poor grandmother-in-law is spinning in her grave that my inherited 60 and 70-year-old fur is the question in the House, when we are talking about the lives of two very serious, difficult social groups, and they would not give more than 20,000 forints in the trust for any fur. In the mountains of Bakony, I campaigned in minus 15 degrees twice, because it was my constituency, and my mother-in-law couldn't stand to watch it on television when she saw that my sick joints had to endure it, and that's why she had the two furs in the closet for 20 years, and that's what I had to hear about these two serious questions. So I shouldn't be an opposition representative asking you what the government parties are doing? And then they gave me a dirty fantasy name? Fortunately, few use it now. But imagine, when my fellow pro-government Members, with whom I am friendly, whisper in my ear in the hallway last winter that their mates dare not take their minks out of the closet so that there will be such press appearances against them! I've calmed them down, so the missus can take the mink out, 'cause I'm sure they won't have that problem. Then we also talked about, I mentioned earlier, that our fellow Member of Bánya tried to strike a very friendly tone, which was very good, because he showed at least one thing that on that side there is someone who feels that there is a terrible wall between us, which if we do not break down, because we cannot climb it, neither you nor we can, if we do not break it down and start for the people who sent us here, whether as individual representatives or on a national list, but they are behind us, who we are fighting to make it better, not for some social groups, but for the whole society, what we promised in 1990 at the dawn of the regime change, that we would create a country of welfare, but not for such a narrow layer, but for the whole country. [[13.10]] I was quite shocked at my fellow Member, László Böröcz. I have to say that this young man, who I was forced to speak to when he was making a mess of me, has grown quite big in my eyes, and I think that we will be able to engage in dialogue, because he is young, he may be even cleaner, he is not yet blessed with enough skruples to change his perspective and start a negotiated process. Then my fellow Member Gergely Arató stood up and said, after Mr Gábor Bányai, that we should start talking then, anyway, neither the OGY law nor the house rules are good. It's been said here. Let's start talking about doing a good thing together, but let's not say that someone, when the Secretary of State is a liar to a professional question, gives the representative, his faction or his party an answer, and doesn't really answer, of course we will. How many times have I told Csaba Dömötör that you are so much better than this! 'Cause that's what I think, by the way. Or Bence of Rethvári, that you don't believe that! 'Cause he's not telling the truth. Of course, you do this reaction, even to be in the record for posterity, that what the Secretary of State says may not be true! Then the collective rating, that's what I was talking about. On a continuous basis, when the pro-government representatives want to introduce us in a negative context, they always say that the opposition will. The opposition shows signs, the opposition whistles, the opposition obstructs, stands up on the pulpit, the opposition displays signs, illustrates, and always the opposition does this together. When we say our pro-government grievances, we always talk about the individual. Did I ever talk about Thomas Herczeg insulting you? Or that my colleague Vejkey insulted you? Or is it my colleague from Banya? I never said that because that never happened. We always name Members who behave in ways that are not acceptable. And we have been set up as such a collective criminal team, this otherwise terribly harsh proposal undermining the rights of representatives has been tabled here. But I also said that this is a double-edged weapon, because this proposal eliminates the possibility for a Member to enter a public institution. It's not a question of ending it. The fact that you can be informed in advance in consultation does not mean that you can ever enter the institution. But I know very well that, since you do not like the fact that the authorities have been given to the leaders of the opposition in many places, you will want to check on those municipalities and those local government organisations and companies. I know very well that you will want to check that once the opposition has been given such a serious four million inhabitants of cities and settlements, you will also be wondering if they are doing it right, otherwise you are absolutely right. I urge you to do that. But now, if you vote for this, can you imagine that the opposition-led authorities will not say that, as the god gives you, you have the god of vows? If the MPs can't go in and stress it, I'm not talking about breaking into a TV and playing Spider-Man there, and the rest, but normally and correctly, as I usually do. Anyway, I'm gonna check it out in advance, I'm never gonna show up, because I know that in one operation, there are so many daily problems that you can't afford to keep me informed in detail. So the characteristic of what I'm doing on the opposition side is not going to happen. But I feel that, and as unacceptable as this proposal is, and I stressed it earlier, at least we talked about it, at least we said our grievances, you also said your grievances, but I talked about it around 4:30 in the morning, that you do like to know that whoever has the power must be generous, the one who has the power must give his hand first, because power and generosity must go hand in hand, because the power has the means that the opposition cannot possess. After you have also taken up weapons many years ago to hinder the activities of the opposition, your hands must also be given to you first. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-499	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to address Mr Lajos Oláh for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-20-500	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. During the night, you have spoken, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that we need this law because we have illegally entered the television building. This has been said many times in a row, and they have done so despite the fact that there is a first-rate decision, honourable Members, a property protection decision, which says that Members of Parliament have indeed rightly stayed in the building of MTVA. You don't care about that. You keep telling me that this law is necessary to prevent this mischief. The public media we charge for 90 billion of our common money is telling us what a mess it is, and that Varju Laci, lying on the ground, while seven security guards were sitting on it, was supposed to beat up someone. That's what you're telling me. That's what public media says. You didn't have the courage to stand up and tell us not to make a fool of ourselves by bringing Laszlo Varju to court that the D.A.'s office would ask for his immunity for beating someone while sitting on his neck, pushing his spine? You didn't care about the truth. During the night, people were constantly deceived, claiming that it was illegal to enter the institution. Compared to this, this law effectively removes this right from Members and only requires the head of the institution to provide information. From this moment on, it depends on the institution whether this is done by e-mail or by allowing Members in with great mercy. You're afraid, that's why you're making this law. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2019-11-20-501	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would also like to address Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-502	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This is the last time I'm going to speak in the debate on this important bill. We could say it was a marathon debate. Yesterday it began with the speech of the lead speaker, and then it was suspended, and from 11 a.m. to now it lasted 1 hour 17-18 minutes. I would like to pay my respects to those pro-government and opposition representatives who have fought this debate from beginning to end. Yes, Mr Lajos Oláh is right that there have been many comments here during the night, and also today, which was a particularly political blow, but I think it is very important that we do not say goodbye to this debate in this way, so let us make sure that there have been a lot of pro-government and a lot of opposition speakers who have approached this debate constructively. I think we've taken a huge step with this. So, obviously, the aim of my fellow opposition Members here was to step up like this, to get into this debate so that it would not happen that this debate would go down from eleven to midnight, and then no one would hear what happened. It is now early in the afternoon, I think, that the public has heard of what a sharp debate this has caused. I am very confident that the constructive ideas that have been formulated by the opposition representatives, and those that have indeed been made by pro-government representatives, could have launched a process that we can now, together, set an example that perhaps a conciliation process will be launched that I believe could lead to the adoption of a consensus proposal. For my part, I can only comment, as the leader of the LMP faction, I am open to a discussion, and I am open to hearing, understanding and hearing those pro-government signals that are actually, say, related to outstanding behaviors. I am asking you, and as you said, Mrs Congresswoman, to exercise a gesture now in the possession of your strength, your two-thirds, and to consider how we can work together on a proposal that could indeed be a step towards protecting and restoring the dignity of Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-503	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Member László Varga also asked for the floor for a two-minute speech. Here you go. [[13.20]]
u2019-11-20-504	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is a marathon debate, not for the first time in the life of the Parliament, because, for example, the Code of Work involving countless workers was discussed in an unfair manner in similar circumstances during the 2010-14 cycle. As a member of the Judicial Committee, I can tell you that we have already seen, in the course of the Commission's series of questions, that this proposal has actually been tabled as a power word, as a unilateral dictator, otherwise, when proposals of this type, house changes, proposals governing the joint work of the various fractions and representatives of Parliament are often made by consensus in countless parliaments of Europe. I ask you once again and firmly, repeating what I said on the Judicial Committee during the debate on inclusion in the series of subjects, to consider the merit of adopting such legislation in such circumstances, it is worthy to beat through Parliament with a unilateral dictatorship, and how this serves the interests of the Hungarian rule of law, Hungarian democracy. We don't think so. We believe that this is a one-sided dictatorship that has been prepared for a long time, but the negative result of the local elections on 13 October has confirmed to you that this legislation should be introduced. Undeserved, take it back! Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-505	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We are going back to the normal speeches. Member of the MSZP Group László Varga... [[For signal:]] No. Thank you very much. Then I will give Mr Lajos Oláh the opportunity to speak again. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-506	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This law is the law of fear and mouth lock, which you have presented. This law is the law of fear, because after the 13th of October, you felt that there was trouble, some hair in the soup, because in vain was the entire government propaganda, the billions that were poured into the campaign, the funded fake candidates, you badly failed many districts of Budapest and many rural cities. You hoped that there would be no proper publicity, and that you might be able to sneak in through the keyhole again and take over the public media without informing the public properly, and you could achieve another success. This fear has not just begun to affect you, because it is no coincidence that you have decided not to allow opposition representatives into the 90-billion-dollar public media. They decided that the Constitutional Court would be expropriated and not elected by consensus, because they feared what would happen if a decent Constitutional Court had to classify your laws, and in many cases, this was said yesterday, Jobbik also said several examples were taken away from the right to turn to the Constitutional Court, because you were afraid that a decent Constitutional Court would normally investigate things. You were also afraid of ordinary judges, and so you started early retirement quickly, trying to remove and upload everyone with mamelukes, putting relatives in charge of the judiciary, who were trying to get them to make their own decisions. You'd like to put the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office on a life sentence, afraid of what would happen if it was finally a fair prosecutor's office and started investigating your cases. You have set up the TEK for many tens of billions of dollars in your fear, and incredibly, instead of the police, you have started to support an uncontrollable organization. I think that if they are talking about what this House should do and what preserves the good news of this House, it is that they are not putting forward such legislative proposals, which take powers away from the Constitutional Court, where judges are trying to retire. If you would pay attention to how this House works, you would not allow it, the House's leadership would not allow any answers to Members' written or oral questions to be kept to nothing. I do not understand how the leader sitting on the pulpit can allow him to accept it and not instruct the ministers, prime ministers, who respond in one word and never give a substantive answer. There is no answer to thousands of written questions, and there is no comment from the President of Parliament that it does not violate the authority of this House, honourable Members, that this is happening. This is when the Fidesz Members should be punished, because they will allow this system to develop, dear Members. You do not mind that it is not possible to vote on budgetary amendments. You want to sneak away, and you don't want everyone to see, for example, that you're going to vote off the flask baby program, and we can still tell you that family allowance is not allowed to be raised, so you've taken it out to vote on it one by one here in front of the House. All you care about is double the salary of the President of the Republic, but you don't care that the family allowance should finally be increased. Those who used to be Members remember that we voted on 1600 budgetary amendments in the previous government, not in your government, but in the correct functioning parliament, in the government. Why has the House been put in such an unblessed, impossible position that there is no fair way to vote here on the various amendments? Why do they allow part of the debate to be hidden from people in committees, dark rooms, where there is no mediation? Why don't you let us argue here? This is a violation of the House's authority, honourable Members, and I urge you not to allow it. I would also like to ask you that, if the authority of this House is important, you should begin to release the committee of inquiry initiated by Members. What are you afraid of? This also shows your fear of not allowing committee inquiry. By the way, you should take the initiative to immediately set up a committee of inquiry on the subject of the Mátra Power Plant and see why the various offices have not notified the settlements in the area. You're scared. They're afraid someone's gonna get hurt and don't give you any extra campaign money. A committee of inquiry should have been set up immediately when the European Commission decided not to give 700 billion forints from the opportunity given by the European Union to Hungary because of their various cases. Why didn't you stand up? This is in fact a violation of the dignity of this House, honourable Members. I urge you to withdraw this law. This law is to be revoked and restored, not this order that was in place before the submission of the law, but to restore a decent parliamentary order. There is only one good news, and thank you to my fellow opposition Members who have been here or gone home all night, because they have insisted that we have not allowed the clumsy thing that you have wanted to do to close this amendment until midnight, an hour in the morning, because then people will not see what you are up to. You wanted to sneeze, you put in the legislative initiative. [[Hey, David to Adam:]] Congressman, yes, I did. They put it in at eleven o'clock. Shame on you. Shame on you for putting this amendment in at 11:00. It's not up to you to talk to me now. At such a level, they considered this thing to be frivolous... Where are the referrals? Why aren't there all the petitioners here who submitted this bill? They did not honour the House by coming here and sitting through this debate to answer what they were doing. I think that this attitude shows that this is the law of fear that you want to put in a mouthlock for opposition representatives. You have failed this debate, you have not been able to go through with it squinting. I'm asking you, the petitioners, to have the opportunity to do so now, to withdraw this. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-20-507	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varga is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-20-508	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Towards the end of the debate, I would like to highlight one more aspect, which is actually not just about this draft legislation. We see year after year that the functioning of Parliament is accelerating in the middle of November, more and more legislation is being crowded into Parliament's work at this time, which, in principle, would not be a problem, but in almost every draft legislation, we find points that are conflicting, which are actually submitted at this time of the year, so that after, say, a December adoption, Hungarian society will turn a blind eye to them as Christmas approaches. [[13.30]] This phase of the year is therefore always about importing this type of legislation. Let me give you a few more examples, since, let's say, legislation on local business tax is also planned to be amended, which was also discussed last night before this legislation, and it is clear that, after 13 October, the legislation on this is planned to be adapted so that local authorities should first use their business tax revenues to finance public transport. In this way, these transport companies may, in fact, forget about their applications for unconfirmed revenue costs, they cannot count on the State's help, as this means that the owners' municipalities will have to cover everything. It's one of those conflict points, and I could tell you more about the other laws that are unworthy. I think that not only would it have been worthy of hearing these laws in the daytime or negotiating them in the proper order of business, but that if the Parliament had already negotiated so many salad laws, it would have been possible to put together a fair salad law, and it could have been, let's say, the title of some laws in relation to the negative results of municipal elections to Fidesz, a law relating to retortion. This could have been given, it would have been quite a long, extensive scientific name, as it has often been the name of one or two proposals. What I see is that we should not have sunk away, we should have stood up and said that we are not at peace, but we do not accept that local authorities are otherwise looking for a partnership between the government at hand. However, you are not partners in the fact that local authorities, which, where appropriate, are opposition-led, where appropriate, in major cities, capitals, districts, most of them, yes, opposition-led, these mayors and representatives were elected by the people who lived there to organise their lives well. So in this context, I would expect much more openness. I would like to refer to one more aspect of the law, which is less mentioned. Of course, you say that the opposition is afraid of what punishments will be, that Members would not want to pay more. Obviously this is also a problem, because it is also a kind of pressure, and I think that it is unprecedented in other democracies, but I think the most serious story is the restriction of the right to information, which is a very important control authority for Members. To illustrate this with an example: let me say, if a representative would like to look into the everyday life of a social institution, to find out about the processes there, or about the similar work of a health institution, then, obviously, in this context, the extraordinary appearance of a representative in a civilized bed, which they cannot prepare for in one of these institutions, but can actually see everyday life in the Member, in relation to the right of control, in relation to the right of information, is a very important achievement. I think it is in the interests of all of us, and it is in the interests of the Hungarian society as a whole, that the representatives elected by the Hungarian people can look at their everyday life and their everyday problems in these institutions, because we can find good solutions if we can see them in everyday life. The pre-notification, agreed date and all that sort of thing are intended to allow a meeting to be drawn for weeks, even months, and then it is not certain that Members will be fully familiar with the work of these institutions. So I understand what you're trying to achieve, obviously on MTVA, on opposition reactions to the headquarters there, is a counter-reaction on your part, which is unacceptable in itself. In addition, they are trying not only to address this issue, but they are actually restricting control powers, and this is against the interests of Hungarian society, the Hungarian people. In this way, the Members cannot do their job, which is in the interest of all of us, our country together. So I would ask you once again and firmly here at the end of this debate to consider this, if you have a problem, to initiate communication with the other factions, to amend house rules and any legislation of this type must always be preceded by consensus. This is what is happening in developed Western democracies. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-20-509	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am speaking to Congressman Lajos Oláh for two minutes. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-510	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to join my fellow Member, László Varga, who says that it is important that opposition representatives receive adequate information. You're telling us not to go into the institutions, and then the head of the institution will inform us. I ask my fellow Members how it is that DK has finally won the lawsuit on the issue of Taoira and we have not been able to obtain these documents for more than a year. If we suddenly get the papers, they'll transfer it to another facility, then when we get there, they'll transfer it to another facility. You're playing with the public, you're hiding reality from opposition representatives and the public. You're afraid that the Tao Papers will tell you how much money you've received and what you've spent it on. Why are you not making a law, honourable Members, protecting the dignity of this House, how it can be done, what sanctions it has, what criminal sanctions it has when opposition representatives are denied information? Because if you wanted to solve the problem, as my opposition colleague László Varga said, you would be concerned with building a fair system. You don't care about that, you want to close more gates, you want to set up more bastions. Therefore, with great respect, I ask you to withdraw this law and rather to create legislation that will allow it and punish it more severely so that the Democratic Coalition can finally have, for example, the Tao Papers that you are hiding despite a final court ruling. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-20-511	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Hajdu is next to take a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-20-512	Mr President, Now there's one of the eight authors in the room. In this long debate, the authors put a rubber bone here, and then went to bed. So I do not see Máté Kocsis here, László Böröcz, István Bajkai, János Halász, Csaba Hende from the Fidesz fraction. Congressman Imre Vejkey is here now. But Peter Harrach isn't here, Lawrence Nacsa isn't here. Eight of us have signed an independent motion, and we have been arguing on this rubber bone for eleven hours, without asking our fellow Members, not in agreement, trying to pass a law about us, and probably doing so by two thirds. I have already initiated in two of my comments that I could do so as a national, to suspend this, to withdraw some kind of house regulation and to have a consultation on the opposition side. There are several things that I am quite sure the opposition would be willing to do. It is hard to say that this is actually a farewell to an independent motion by its own representatives, because if this is to rise to the law, the last time we will be able to negotiate a separate motion by its Members before Parliament, and even a separate motion by opposition. This will be a rather special part of parliamentarianism, I think, if it can only be negotiated in committees, and then the TAB will say the final word, which will always be that it will not be brought before Parliament by a motion of its own representatives, or such as this initiative of eight, such a faction, or the motion of two factions. I think that as a pro-government Member, you should be practicing the gesture that has already been mentioned here, and Andrea Varga-Damm specifically formulated this very nicely in order to make a political gesture. Thus, if it is adopted in this form, I must apologise, but this is the version of political pressure, which can be said to be a political guardianship of the opposition. This rule of the game, which we call house rules, should be a rule of the game in which the rights of opponents or players are equal and operate according to the same rules. Here, however, there is an opposition placed under guardianship, which has already been done because of the two thirds, especially because of the style in which we operate. I think that this is a version of political blackmail in which those voters may indeed have been right, that many, many of these letters have also been sent to Members, and the press has also dealt a great deal with this after the elections in 2018, that they should not take an oath and take a mandate, they should not come into Parliament, because it does not make sense, it justifies it. [[13.40]] What led to this is a list of the nights and a series of concrete examples, but I would also like three things that are very difficult for you to live. Such is Corvinus University, this may not have been said here, it is handed over to MOL and Richter in the form of a foundation, and the staff working there are placed under the law of employment. It was said in the debate that this would be a standard, and the teachers would be in this position in a row. Yesterday, the debate was closed, and it already happened in vocational training, from Kjt. to the Labour Code, and this could be the case for other teachers. So you could predict what was coming. It followed, and at the same time this CEU debate went on, and it was quite unworthy that the Hungarian Parliament had to play a role in this. I think that the legislation and the debate about the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, I also feel ashamed of the opposition benches that have happened to science. And to be able to promote this through the media, how big we've done, it's unbelievable! The whole thing that we have suffered, and what is to be ashamed of, I think there is even among you who is ashamed, this is the preparation of the slave law, its timetable, its conclusion and its acceptance, when it was possible to vote in this House without a card. Without a card, there's no way to determine how many people voted properly. But in any case, you're voted. So we created laws that we will not be proud of in the future. In fact, once again, my motion is that the eight fellow Members, who I have listed by name before, I would like to ask that the parliamentary representatives of the opposition side be respected in so far as to give us at least one consultation opportunity, and it is quite certain that a very significant part of the proposals will be eligible and brought back here by consensus, so that they can be signatories to this law on the opposition side, this house rule, because in themselves it is appropriate that the rules of the game be based on consensus. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-20-513	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-514	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, In the meantime, I have been trying to find further arguments as to why you should not do this, and one of my new arguments is that, as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I have seen, from the last year, that essentially half of the meetings have become indecisive nine times because the pro-government Members have decided not to discuss it. I think that this is what shows well how unworthy the situation is that if you decide that, by the way, the control function which belongs to Parliament in the Parliament Act on Members of Parliament is impossible, and that in itself is good intentions, or that you would think anything good about this which some of you have spoken about during the day, I think it is obvious. Finally, why should you be withdrawn, I would like to recall it to you again with the five points of the slave law and the five points of the claim relating thereto; this is the age document, which was also present in MTVA. We demand the immediate withdrawal of the slave law, less police overtime, independent courts, the European Public Prosecutor's Office and an independent public media. That is what you must accept, and if you have the urge to do so and at the same time withdraw this bill in which you want to limit us, instead we demand rights and we expect the opposition to be strengthened in this respect. I want this bill revoked. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-20-515	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will be followed by Congressman Lajos Oláh. Here you go.
u2019-11-20-516	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Eight people have been named after this scandal, and they'll spend their lives regretting that such an order has been complied with and this material has been brought in. But I'm asking where László Fat is. Doesn't the President of this House care about this bill that will determine the functioning of this House? What are you doing? Are you on vacation? Are you on vacation? Sauna? Why isn't the Speaker of Parliament here on such a bill that will determine his work throughout? We wanted to learn your opinion about how you see these points, how you will decide in different situations. This bill, my fellow Members, is a blank cheque for you sitting up there, you can do anything. A. 46/A. § 2 says that the chairman of the meeting may, without ordering or warning, withdraw the right of opposition from the Member who objects to the decision and the chair of the meeting. Are we normal here in this House to even talk about such a bill? How do you submit such a thing? I'm telling you, we're just analyzing it. You can do this without reprimanding or warning, honourable Members, so it is not even necessary to say that this is not okay, I order you to withdraw your right to speak without it. Who objects to the leadership of the meeting. What's the excuse, for example? That someone had put something to the vote against a rule, someone said that excuse, my fellow Members, and that they could withdraw their right to comment without warning. Why isn't László Fat here to tell you what you think of this paragraph? This paragraph in Europe would be unthinkable to bring such a thing in front of this House without any control or regulation, fellow Members. Once again, so that they can write and tell at home what you have submitted: without reprimanding or warning, just because the decision or the meeting is being criticized. Ladies and gentlemen, This is an opportunity, you can stop now, you can no longer sneak through this amendment, because you couldn't finish it at 11 o'clock as planned, sneaking around, this item on the agenda, so I suggest you that now that you have to face the cameras and the awake Hungary, do it to withdraw it and examine not only what was not good in the present, but also to be able to restore the rule of law. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-20-517	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is my duty to inform the Member that the current rule of the house, which was born in 1990, is literally the same wording, so in this sense there is no novelty. But I'll give you the floor for a two-minute speech.
u2019-11-20-518	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then I would like to ask László Kövér how he feels about this interpretation in the future, when you think that I would like to apply these rules more intensively, with a much stronger penalty. [[13.50]] This is interesting that László Fat will have a different penny for various Members. At the time when physical violence has been committed against the opposition representative, the representative will be punished for 50,000 forints, and when someone shouts or points out loud, he will be punished for 300,000 forints. It would be worth doing some normal, predictable, accountable system. That's not what you did. You've escalated the arbitrariness. I would like to ask you with great respect that, now that you have the opportunity, at 2:00 p.m., to withdraw this proposal, you will initiate a normal, complete consultation here in Parliament, because it appears to be bleeding from a thousand wounds. You don't want the Parliament to work that way either. You do not want to empty the plenary session. You do not want Members not to be allowed into institutions. Let us focus on making a decent country, a country where, when there is trouble in the Mátra Power Plant, Parliament will act; when the country is cut by 700 billion forints, Parliament will act. A country that is willing to deal with climate change is not hidden by ministers, and we can still talk about these things. I would like to ask you, there is one author, unfortunately the others are not here to do this together, but if you would call them and talk to them about withdrawing this law, we would thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2019-11-20-519	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I'll ask you one of the authors, because there are several people in this room who would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Congressman Imre Vejkey, please.
u2019-11-20-520	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In closing, I would like to remind you that the general debate over the past 15 hours has clearly demonstrated that [[László Varju: Undo it!]] it is necessary to tighten disciplinary procedures without introducing a new rule, only sanctions are tightened. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: You weren't here, Congressman. Even if he was here!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The Hungarian Parliament, the shrine of the nation, must be given its due respect. This requires real sanctions, since the expectations they have had so far have not been fulfilled. I can say to siren voices that we do not want to silence the opposition, but only to stop aggression. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, after hearing from you for nearly 15 hours about how limited your expression and freedom of expression are, I think that this false statement and the facts previously told by the pro-government representatives speak for themselves. In view of all this, we no longer wish to respond to the opposition's speeches separately and repeatedly. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to support the two proposals before us in order to preserve the authority of the Parliament and to maintain its dignity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-20-521	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the debate on the agenda for the 20 November, namely yesterday's sitting. Post-meeting speeches will not take place because the candidates have withdrawn their speeches. Meeting of 20 November is closed.
