u2019-10-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The first day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me with great respect and affection to welcome Mr Peter Katjavi, President of the Namibian Parliament, the sitting ladies, the Secretary-General of the Namibian Parliament and the members of the delegation. Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament, to pay our respects and best wishes on the way home and for their work at home. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform the Honourable Parliament, and five of our former fellow Members have passed away recently. László Máté obtained his mandate from the national list of MSZP at the parliamentary elections in 1994 and was a member of the Parliament until 1998. In 1989 he joined the Hungarian Socialist Party and became the founding president of the Budapest X. district organization. He was involved in the activities of the group's agricultural working group. He also served as Vice-President of the MSZP until 1994-1996. He died in 67 years of his life. László Rajk was one of the founders of the party in two parliamentary periods from 1990 to 1996. In 1990 he obtained his mandate in the 20th constituency of Budapest, then in 94 from the party's national list. He was a member of the Committee on Culture, Foreign Affairs and European Integration. As an architect, he was the designer and creator of many buildings, as stage designers of several theatre performances and films. In 2009, he received the Kossuth Prize in recognition of his work. He died in the 71st year of his life. Sándor Tóth obtained his mandate at the first free parliamentary elections in the 2nd constituency of Nógrád county, in the colours of KDNP. During his term of office, he was a member of the Committee on Culture and Press and a notary of the Parliament from 1990 to 1994. Besides his political career, József was an Attila Prize-winning writer, poet, journalist, translator and university professor. In recognition of his life's work he was awarded the Small Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary and the Officer's Cross of the Order of Merit of Hungary. He passed away 80 years of his life. Riz Levente was a member of the Parliament from 2010 to 2014. As a candidate for Fidesz, he obtained his mandate in the 25th Constituencies of Budapest. During his term of office, he assisted the work of the Economic and IT Committee. In addition to his work in the Parliament, Budapest has been a XVII. mayor of its district and member of the Metropolitan Assembly. He died in the 44th year of his life. József Szekó was a member of the Hungarian Parliament during the parliamentary term from 2010 to 2014. He obtained his mandate from the Baranya county regional list in the colors of Fidesz, then worked in the Municipal and Regional Development Committee until the end of his term of office. József Szekó has been Mayor of Mohács for more than two decades since 1998 and member of the Baranya County General Assembly. He was 64 years old. I ask you to honor the memory of our dead fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people present pay a silent tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mr Tamás Pintér, Ádám Mirkóczki Jobbikos and Mr Imre László DK Members have announced that the Act on Parliament is 80. Paragraph (1) of this Article provides that there is a conflict of interest between them. Pending such termination, they shall not exercise their rights arising out of their mandate and shall not be entitled to remuneration. Members shall, within 30 days of the occurrence of a conflict of interest, terminate or initiate the termination of the conflict of interest between them. All three Members have been elected mayors by the voters, and I congratulate them on behalf of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2019-10-21-1	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It's been a hundred days since the Parliament met. According to our constitutional customs, I am now reporting to this House what the government has done since our last meeting. During these hundred days there were municipal elections; new elements of the family protection action plan were launched; we launched the Hungarian village programme; we saw important developments in the European and Hungarian economies, and we also decided on important issues in the European Council. As far as municipal elections are concerned, they have been successfully and effectively carried out in all settlements in the country. I would like to thank the nearly 20,000 people who have contributed to the election as ballot counters, informatics, lawyers, civil servants or in any other way. We can conclude that the government has solved the tasks of organising and conducting the elections to public satisfaction. I would also like to thank those voters who participated in the election, regardless of their party affiliation, and thus contributed to the functioning of Hungarian democracy. Participation rates show that Hungarians remain committed to democracy and believe in the future of Hungary. I also congratulate all elected mayors and municipal representatives from this place. I wish you a lot of strength and good health for your work. The government's position and practice so far are well known. We work with every mayor and body of representatives who are ready to cooperate. Regardless of party standing, government or opposition position, we all have to work for Hungary and the Hungarian people, because it is still true that the country cannot be in opposition. [[Moraj from the benches of opposition parties.]] [[13.20]] For the government, this House, it is a special recognition that, overall, the governing parties have received more than 50 percent of the votes for the whole country. In addition to important geographical and municipal differences, this means that the government can continue its work and is even confirmed on the most important issues. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Especially on the Adriatic...]] We will therefore continue with the policies of the labour-based economy, family-friendly Hungary, increasing wages, decent ageing, home creation and national reunification. Hungarian democracy is strong, works and is able to continue to serve people's interests effectively. Mr President, I would like to inform this House that the family protection action plan has given rise to more than 65,000 people who have been involved so far. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy is a large, musty lie, because he holds a sign with too many stolen words in front of the speaker's stand. László Szászfalvi to Dr. Ákos Hadházy in front of the speaker stand: Go back to your seat! Clown, sit down. Noise. Intercoms.]]
u2019-10-21-2	I ask you, Congressman, to stop fooling around and get back in your seat. Congressman, I'm going to have to warn you that there will be consequences. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy keeps the tablet unchanged in front of the speaker stand. Intercoms.]] The Prime Minister doesn't mind the opposition clowning. Feel free to go back to what you have to say.
u2019-10-21-3	40,000 baby shower support, 16,000 large families asked for car shopping support and 9 000 asked for a mortgage debt reduction for families with three and more children. 114,000 families used the family's home-building discount. The village home programme launched in July received 1500 applications. Together, they amount to HUF 650 billion worth of support, which came to the Hungarian families. The question is whether the Hungarian economy can handle all this. I can report to this House that it seems that you do. We are seeing the economic performance of the first six months. The Hungarian economy grew by 5.2 percent. Compared to 2010, the performance of the Hungarian economy increased by 30 percent In particular, industrial production increased above 40 per cent by switching to the work-based economic system and unemployment fell to 3.4 per cent from 12 per cent in 2010. The number of jobs has increased by 808 thousand. Today there are 4 million 517 thousand people working in Hungary. This puts us in the fourth place in the European Union, but the government wants more and better, at least we want to catch up with the Czech Republic. I would like to inform this House that, during the first seven months of the year, average earnings have increased by 10,6 percent, and the rate of the minimum wage increase is the fourth largest in the EU, which means that three countries are still ahead of us, so it is worth working more for all of us. I would like to inform you that there have been major changes in the area of public debt: we have reduced it from 83.5 percent in 2010 to 68 percent. It is at least as important that in 2010, the loan or loan in the hands of foreigners amounted to 50 percent, which is now below 20 percent, i.e. the interest rates on public loans are not paid to foreigners, but to Hungarians. I also encourage everyone to buy Hungarian sovereign debt. Dear House, [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy's lie again, because he shows up with a sign that says too much stolen.]] As for the decisions of the Council of the European Union, here is what I can tell you. A President has been elected to lead the European Commission, who can correct the mistakes of previous years in the economy and in the area of migration. [[Viktor Orbán is trying to take the signs away from Dr. Ákos Hadházy. Claps and interrogations in the ranks of opposition parties, including: It is no longer the same! Somebody help me! Zsolt Borkai isn't here? László Szászfalvi: You already have muscle fever, huh? Sit down in your seat. Noise. Intercoms.]] May I continue? [[Several pro-government representatives step in front of the speaker stand while Sándor Font tries to cover the plaque held by Dr. Ákos Hadházy with a national flag. Some pro-government representatives take the signs from Dr. Ákos Hadházy Claps in the ranks of the governing parties. Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties, including: Commando! Shame on you. Shame! Interview in Jobbik's ranks: Antal Rogán is ready! Constant interrogations.]]
u2019-10-21-4	I ask our fellow Members... [[Noise. Browse in the ranks of opposition parties, including: You're tough! You're thieves! Pathetic!]] Prime Minister, if I may, we have already interrupted your speech, I would like to make a few sentences to what has happened. On this pulpit, which is below me, there's a bullet hole over a hundred years old about opposition irresponsibleness, nonsense, and patriotism. [[Intervention in the ranks of opposition parties: And we were?]] Even the communists didn't get rid of it, because they also felt somewhere that this memento had significance. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that from the electoral defeat you have suffered, you do not conclude that the same aggressive war policy that you have conducted so far is the right thing to do. [[Intervention in the ranks of opposition parties: Zsolt Borkai! Dr. Agnes Vadai:...we cannot bring that Christian level to the truth!]] I'd like to ask you to abide by the house rules. I would very much like to ask you to do this. [[Gergely Harvesto: Fighting fits the house rules?]] I would like to ask you not to turn Parliament into a circus, however difficult it may be for you. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz: Insult, Mr. President. Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Physical Insult!]] I'd like to ask you to do this. Anyone unable to do so should contact a professional for help. Prime Minister, please. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Tibor Bana: You cannot endure defeat! György Szilágyi: Physical Insult has occurred!]]
u2019-10-21-5	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much to my fellow Members for your help, and I am counting on it in the future. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] As far as the decisions of the Council of the European Union are concerned, I can say the following. A President has been elected to lead the Commission of the European Union, who can correct the mistakes of previous years in the economy and in the area of migration. I felt it was my duty to prevent the election of a president who spoke disrespectfully of Hungarians and of Hungarians, and of those who wanted to implement plans contrary to the Hungarians' will on the issue of immigration. The necessary background agreements have been concluded and our goal has been achieved. I would like to inform you that last week we had an agreement with Britain on their departure from the Union. [[Gergely Harvester: Ours or theirs? Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I always thought it was right to respect the British's decision and to make a fair, fair agreement about their departure. This just happened. I have agreed to an agreement that protects the interests of Hungarians working in England and is good for the Hungarian economy. Dear House, That was the good news. The bad news is that the Council of Prime Ministers said no to the opening of negotiations on Macedonia and Albania's membership of the European Union on Friday. [[13.30]] It's a bad decision, but I hope it's not tragic. It would have been tragic, or it would have been if Serbia had been blocked for any reason. Serbia is the key issue and key country of our region and our stability. Serbia cannot stabilise the Balkans without its membership in the European Union. Therefore, Hungary continues to support the rapid recruitment of all Balkan countries, in particular Serbia and Montenegro. [[Zsolt Gréczy: And the chicock. Noise, clarity.]] Dear House, The Council of Prime Ministers has also started to negotiate the Union's next seven-year budget. The positions on all important issues are far from each other. There is no consensus even on the basic issues of the next seven-year budget. As part of the budget, we also discussed climate policy issues. Hungary has a goal and a dedicated plan to ensure that up to 90 percent of the energy produced in Hungary is CO2-free by 2030. However, European prime ministers are now also discussing whether and how and at what cost the European Union will have an overall climate-neutral economy by 2050. According to the Hungarian position, this can be achieved in Hungary, but only through radical and deep economic transformation programmes. We have started preparing the plans for this, and our financial needs have been announced to the European Union last week. In order to have fully carbon-neutral electricity production in the three large areas, so that we can fully replace the use of natural gas and put transport on a fully electric basis, we may need HUF 50 200 billion in Hungarian money. This is EUR 150 billion in euro, which is not impossible, but it will not be possible without the European Union's serious contribution. That's what we need. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You don't have to steal it!]] Finally, I would like to inform you that, at the government meeting on 24 October, we will finalise the list of our legislative proposals to be submitted to you. Thank you for your attention, and for the work of the autumn session, I wish you good success and fruitful debates and good decisions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2019-10-21-6	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your speech and, in particular, for your patience, and thank you for the calmness of my fellow opposition Members who were able not to band together with the herd. Next is Peter James.
u2019-10-21-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Prime Minister! Well, let's just say we didn't use force. Obviously, with rapists, we're not gonna be rowing in the same herd. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] Obviously, where the arguments run out, there comes violence. After the elections, I would first of all like to thank those voters, those Hungarians who, on 13 October, did not allow threats, blackmail or intimidation, left and voted for the most credible opposition candidate in their minds. Thank you for that. I said, before the elections, that to change government in 2022, you have to buy the ticket on 13 October. Well, the Hungarians bought it, 4 million of our compatriots bought this ticket in ten county-righted cities, in the capital and in countless smaller settlements. It's a huge achievement, I think. In recent years, you have treated Hungarian cities and Hungarian villages as if they were your property, Prime Minister. They treated its inhabitants as if they were serfs, but on October 13th the serfs said that this was enough. Enough blackmail, enough power pride, enough humiliating them with a bag of potatoes instead of giving them a normal living. The serfs have rebelled. And do you know what that means, Your Majesty? It means the renegade is coming. Today we have taken part of his estate, tomorrow we will take his power, and the day after tomorrow we will take his freedom, because he who becomes a bully of his own people, Prime Minister, will bring the people to where the tyrant belongs, even if this tyrant lies to himself as a Christian. In the last few days or weeks, you have been talking about, in an amazing way, that Fidesz has brought the Christian regime change to Hungary. Well, he's got a lot of nerve. Do you know when there will be a Christian regime change here, Prime Minister? At a time when stealing is not a compliment, but a prison, when lying is not a prize, it is contempt when cocaine is not a mayor's seat, but at least a rehab. There will be a Christian regime change here when power does not provoke hatred, but condemns it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] In fact, you have won the election in a number of settlements today. But when you have achieved this by threatening, blackmailing, intimidation, lying, you have failed from Christianity and humanity. You will also fail the Heads of State. But those voters who put aside ideological differences during this vote were able to put aside hatred, and they were able to see, not an enemy, but a compatriot in the other, now, they have passed the test of humanity and Christianity, Prime Minister. And I'm very proud of them, I'm proud of them, because these people have shown us that we are of the same blood, even though we think of the world in many ways. You have also said, Prime Minister, at the Fidesz Congress, that you see the Fidesz as comrades, but you will protect them even if the Adriatic orgies take public money. It is true that we do not regard these people as comrades, but we do regard everyone else with whom we want to build this country. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're DK!]] Prime Minister, there's one thing we owe you, one thing: your inhumane system has taught us to respect the other man. He taught us that simply because someone thinks of the world other than us can still be a useful member of our society, who must not be defeated, as an Eger Fidesz said, but should be understood and heard. It's not a Dakota proverb, but it's true, and it doesn't matter: they tried to bury us, but they didn't know we were seeds. You, Prime Minister, have tried to bury Hungarian freedom in recent years, but the Hungarians' desire for freedom has finally come to an end, because we want to live in a free country, in a country where it is not important who is better or who is left, who is fidesz, who is opposition, but who is fair and who is dishonest; who is right and who is false; who is saved and who is inexcusable. Because there are people in this country who can't be saved. Those who have been actively involved in the plundering of the nation for the past thirty years are beyond my control. You, Prime Minister, are beyond my control. You can't be saved! [[Rumble on the pro-government side.]] Then when you've been punished on earth, the good Lord will handle your fate. But everyone else can be saved. And not because it's right- or left-wing, fideszes or opposition, but because it's Hungarian. Prime Minister, your tool is hatred, you are trying to turn the Hungarians against each other by making them hate each other, because you know very well that you will remain in power as long as we Hungarians bite each other. But it's over now. Your weapon is hatred. Our weapon is solidarity, our standing side by side, with which we can truly reunite this nation in the way of honor and genuine camaraderie. So, Prime Minister, on 13 October the reunion of the nation began. This means that you, you have two options: either you start serving this nation or you fail once and for all. But in both cases, we Hungarians will win. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2019-10-21-8	It's Ferenc Gyurcsány's turn. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Thank you, László Fat!]]
u2019-10-21-9	Ladies and Gentlemen, It's important that the Prime Minister spoke, but it might have been better if he hadn't just spoken, but said something. [[13.40]] I will not agree to the debate about who won the elections behind us, because, of course, very, very many will have numbers. But I am quite certain that you understand that if politically most important communities with the greatest energy have voted for the opposition in general, this is a clear message. In settlements above ten thousand people, more opposition representatives were elected than pro-government. You understand that when one of your distinguished mayors was voted out and voted out because there were some, it wasn't against the mayor, it was against your politics; it was not simply a municipal election, it was a rebellion against your politics. And the Prime Minister didn't say anything about understanding any of this. But I think it would be worth thinking about telling the country that it might need to be amended here and there. And not to win the next election, but to make the majority of the country think that things are really going in the right direction. You don't think so today. It would have been nice if you'd told me what you thought of that. Ladies and gentlemen. Thirty years ago, I saw a very brave man speak of whom I thought he was probably braver than I was. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] He spoke wisely and bravely. He also talked about a free world, freedom of the press. I'd think now, because the same man was talking on the bench, that maybe he could have told us what happened to him. Not only do you stand by and watch, but I suspect that with your knowledge and even your order, lies, misleading propaganda from taxpayers' money are taking place in Hungary, partly in public and elsewhere. Where'd that guy go? What happened to him? Why don't you feel that if you talk about free Hungary, then the press should be free and the election should be free, but where the press is not free, there shouldn't be a choice? (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) It's as simple as that. You can't be proud of a single vote of the governing party, which, by the way, is aware that the final manipulation of the press is behind it. Ladies and gentlemen. This isn't a game! This is our country. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] There's a substantive question the Prime Minister didn't mention. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] We need to find out what the moral, political reason that he can support is that one of NATO's countries is aggressive against a sovereign country; what is the moral reason why he does not feel responsible for the lives of innocent, dead civilian adults and children. I do not understand why it is not shaken by the multitude of images that have come to them, and I do not understand why it thinks that we Hungarians are on his side in this matter. Turkey is Syria's aggressor, Turkey is responsible for thousands of innocent civilians. I do not see any national interest in which we Hungarians can go silently, and do not think that the death of Syrian children and adults is at least the responsibility of the Hungarian Prime Minister and his politics, and I am ashamed of myself in his place too. [[Intercoms from the opposition: That's right!]] Finally, the political agreement has been reached, and this is threatening you. I propose to the opposition colleagues that, in order to wish each other a happy Easter in the spring two years from now, the normal human alliances that we need to be able to fight with this aggression, after we have won and then face it, should be in addition to politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-10-21-10	Szabó Timea is next. [[The congressman's mic isn't working.]] Just a moment, please. Here you go.
u2019-10-21-11	Mr. Prime Minister, Not so long ago, Prime Minister, on a very serious matter, you were able to answer to a fellow Member that he had a merry Christmas, and I thought he would be witty enough to say so, but he would still have time to do so in rejoinder. In the meantime, let me wish you a merry Christmas. And then, in the Sunday mayor election, Gergely Christmas defeated your governor, István Tarlós, by nearly 51 percent. This 7 percent difference, which was exactly what it was, shows that the people of Budapest and the people of many cities are fed up with what you have done, and they want freedom. They want to be free from you, after all the theft, threats and blackmail you've done to millions of people, so at least you owe me an apology, Prime Minister. 'Cause the thing is, you guys really overstepped the bike. First of all, a little bit of money was stolen from us, your daughter, Rachel, her son-in-law, István Tiborcz, but your childhood playmate, Lőrinc Mészáros. Then there was a little bit too much hate, Prime Minister. Did you really think that people would watch and listen to migrantism endlessly, that their smeared origo would bring down eighty-four times on the front page that Christmas was unfit? Seriously, Prime Minister, did you really think that would be eaten by the people in Budapest and the people in the big city? Then they pushed the bike a little over the capital. Did you really think that the people of Budapest would stand by and watch their hospitals die? To stand by and watch eight out of ten people die of a cureable disease? That there is no CT and no MRI, while Slovakia and Poland have twice as much equipment as they do at home? Did they really think we were gonna watch Budapest loot without saying a word? Did they really think that while Budapest produces 37% of Hungary's GDP, we will get 1 percent back? Prime Minister, darling, are you messing with us? That's why the people of Budapest said no, that's why Gergely Christmas won! Did you really think that the people in Budapest and the people in the big city could be blackmailed that we would only get money if we voted for you? Well, that's what the people of Budapest and the people in the big city said! Finally, did you really believe that we would endure endlessly the public-paid luxury orgies and the theft of a billionaire by Zsolt Borkai? Do you know, Prime Minister, what the people of Budapest and the people in the big city have discovered? They found out that there is not a piece of Zsolt Borkai, the luxurious Zsolt Borkai in this country, but hundreds of Zsolt Borkai are running around in this country, lying to a false Christian in Fidesz. [[Interview from Fidesz: Wittinghoff!]] That your entire Fidesz is the congregation of Zsolt Borkai! [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Zsolt Borkai is the Fidesz! That is why Gergely Christmas won in Budapest, Prime Minister, and that is why opposition representatives won in our cities. Christmas won the election without a propaganda machine behind it [[Mr. Moraj, there's a crack in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] that they didn't fill it with billions... [[Moraj, information, interrogations from the ruling parties.]] It's the idiot... but the dialogue crew. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] with the support of opposition parties and the help of voters, he became the new leader of Budapest. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Christmas has already announced its new measures, which, fortunately, will hurt you; among other things, its first measure is that your rag, the Lokal, will not be allowed to be distributed in the public squares of Budapest. [[An uproar, applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Intercoms from the ruling parties, among others: Freedom of the Press! The president's ringing the bell.]] The lie factory is over on the streets of Budapest! I'm so glad you like the Lokal so much, the voters didn't like it that much. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Then, as the Dialogue has so often initiated, we suspend the unattended evictions in municipal housing; the policy of humanity comes. But you won't dooze the coast of Rome, there won't be any concrete jungles from the Liget, and Antal Rogán's buddy circle won't build the island of Shipyard for a luxury residential park. There will be no slave law in the capital companies, and we will declare the climate crisis. [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And that's just the first few steps that Gregory Christmas and the Alliance of Free Cities will announce throughout the country. And now, Prime Minister, as we have liberated Budapest, we will liberate the entire city in 2022. [[Sic! Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Don't be happy, because that strong opposition alliance you've just seen since Sunday is not the end, it's just the beginning. We will continue in the same way until 2022. We've learned our lesson, we're going to free the whole country, Prime Minister, after the inhumanity. [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] Humanity is finally coming. Merry Christmas. [[13.50]]
u2019-10-21-12	Thank you very much for your contribution, Mrs Congresswoman. If we understand correctly, here comes the. Liberation. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] Bertalan Tóth is next.
u2019-10-21-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Fellow Members! My fellow Fidesz Members! Here, after the previous laugh, I remembered the end of last year, when they laughed at us in a similar way, when, in order to prevent the adoption of the slave law, the opposition unit with which we occupied the pulpit was established here in Parliament. After this unity out on the street, the opposition forces were joined together, and, well, at the municipal elections, this strategy worked and came to a conclusion. The system in which you were thinking has ceased, and we opposition parties have understood the voter's message. And we know that this is a huge responsibility, because we now have to prove it in free cities and in free towns. After all, in the free cities and in the free settlements, we must create the condition that you, as a government, are constantly failing, because we have not heard yet again, in this production conference, about the reduction of social inequalities, which we aim to achieve in all municipalities. We have not heard of how they intend to reduce the housing crisis of young people, but only about how they want to continue to enrich the privileged. We have not heard of how they intend to reduce poverty among pensioners, how they intend to resolve the impossible situation of wage increases and pensions falling behind and more than one million Hungarian pensioners living in poverty today. We have not heard that in the competitiveness indicators, in which Hungary was not so funny to listen to the comment that Hungary is in fact the 24th most competitive country in the European Union, only 23 of us are ahead of it, but, in this competitiveness indicator, there is corruption, which hinders Hungarian competitiveness. There is the fact that monopolies are not excluded from the Hungarian market economy, but there is how healthcare is deteriorating every day in Hungary. He did not mention that only 452 Hungarian doctors asked for a certificate to work abroad last year. He didn't mention that the debts of hospitals again increased to more than HUF 50 billion, while we read that the funding of propaganda at the Prime Minister's Office was a little oversound, with just HUF 5 billion. Come on. These are the tasks that we have to carry out in these free cities for you, and the climate protection that you have just mentioned, but you have not said that because of your veto, you have prevented the European Union from taking a very serious road to climate protection; we will also do so in the free cities. And Prime Minister here somehow said that democracy worked in the municipal elections. Well, the particular democracy in which you think, and it is highly likely that voters who voted for opposition candidates, candidates for mayor, have had enough of this democracy. In three quarters of the country, the opposition was not allowed to post posters. Local government companies and local government employees removed the posters of the opposition in Nyíregyháza, Szekszárd. [[A statement from Jobbik: Yes, yes, yes.]] The Constitutional Court also had to intervene in this: this year it is necessary to create a law to resolve this impossible situation. The same was done in the capital: XI, XXI. The posters were removed in the district, and yet the fine king in Csepel, where opposition parties were punished for a million forints, although the court did not consider this justified. And then we could talk about the work of the State Audit Office, as it tried to disable the operation of the parties; about the public media, which I can't even classify with what adjectives, which was occupied only and exclusively with the propaganda of the government. We can talk about the despicable flyers or pseudo-public opinion polls of how they tried to frame opposition candidates; and not to mention those guest voters who came to Hungary with a crowd of people from Ukraine to strengthen you. We've lived with 120 applications in this campaign, but it's quite clear that you've been trying to make this success impossible. But the voters told us that this was not going to work, and, as my opposition fellow Members and group leaders have indicated, we will continue on this road, we will prepare together for 2022, and we will prove ourselves in free cities. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-14	László Keresztes, Lóránt LMP leader of the group. Here you go.
u2019-10-21-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I believe, Honourable Parliament, that it is not surprising that the autumn session begins with such anger and allow me to refer to something that has not yet been mentioned. Here at the beginning of the meeting, we witnessed a sign taken by government representatives by force from an opposition representative, and whether or not this sign was used in a house or not, they had no right to do so. [[László Szászfalvi: The opposition representative was stupid. Because he had a right? Double standard!]] So I really hope that Mr Speaker will address this issue. And then, returning to Prime Minister's speech and speech before the agenda: I can say, as an introduction, that there are a lot of differences between the opposition parties that are sitting here, and we do not agree on a lot of things, I believe that this is no surprise to anyone, but I and our faction can identify with a significant part of what they have said. I also believe that, after such an extremely important election, the most important or our first important task is to thank the Hungarian voters for their participation in the municipal elections, their rights, their democratic choices, and their choice of mayors and representatives who will run the settlements that represent their home. I would also particularly like to thank you for your support for those who voted for the candidates for the May Other Politics. It is extremely important in an election of such great importance, in an election that we can say is even more important than the parliamentary elections, that we correctly value the voters' nominations, the voters' votes. We have heard practically a victory report from Prime Minister; I believe that this is a mistake, Prime Minister. If we consider the propaganda that the government, the governing parties, have, and how they use it, how they subdue the public media, and what other means, such as the means of intimidation, are used, I think that the municipal election of 13 October was definitely a huge defeat for the governing parties. It has to be said, yes, that in many settlements it is no longer independent, but a significant part of the mayors and representatives are independent of the Hungarian municipal system, but there are nearly 3 million people living in a settlement that has been in opposition management since today and 13 October. And indeed, it should be pointed out the responsibility of these city leaders, mayors, representatives, regardless of whether they are opposition or pro-government. It is very important for everyone to know that a long period of time has ended, that the elections have followed each other, and now there is a time when it is necessary to prove it. The elected mayors and elected representatives now have the task of proving that they can lead with honor, efficiency and integrity the settlements from which they have been trusted. And it is extremely important, both opposition and pro-government representatives must bear this in mind, there are no opposition and pro-government citizens in this respect, but the interests of all citizens living in cities and towns and villages must be represented. I think, Prime Minister, that it is the government's duty to ensure that the conditions necessary for the management of a city or a small town, a big city or a district or even a small settlement are ensured by the Prime Minister and it is his duty to ensure that the Hungarian Government and Parliament do so. And unfortunately, we can say that a significant part of these conditions are not guaranteed today. This is how the most important public services have come to the brink of collapse, so that very many settlements are the basic tasks [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Which one? It's state, not municipal.]] For example, Deputy Prime Minister... for water services, for example, the maintenance of public transport is on the verge of collapse. We are talking about the priority tasks of the municipalities, and the government and the Parliament have a duty to provide them with these resources, so it is their duty. I think it is time that all elected mayors and all elected representatives of the local government, besides, of course, working properly for the interests of the settlement and doing their job with honor, it is time that all of them, beyond these, represent the Hungarian national interests in the coming years. What I can promise as the leader of the May Other Political Group is that the elected representatives of the LMP and those who will continue their work as different officials will act in this way. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-16	Péter Harrach, head of the KDNP faction. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-21-17	Mr President, Prime Minister! Dear Friends! [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We ask for information about Christianity!]] I am trying to talk about the topics that Prime Minister has mentioned, because that is what this genre means. [[György Szi-lágyi: Bishop of Győri County!]] About the election, we all hoped the campaign was over. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: In Borkai's interest...]] Some comments have shown that this is not the case. [[14.00]] Some people put up with the campaign, and some people love their tastes. But I think that his tone must be something worthy of Parliament and Hungarian public life. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Black Paco! Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: There should be no choice.]] I have to mention one thing: Madam Group Leader said that the Fidesz community is made up of their Borkas. [[Intervention from the opposition benches: KDNP!]] Well, that sounds like a bit of an exaggeration. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Am I still coming? Even if not all of you... interrogations from the opposition.]] Campaign can be continued with hatred... [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] but running a settlement can only be done with expertise. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Well...]] I think we all agree on that. [[György Szilágyi: Like Hende in Szombathely?]] For example, we can't find a city manager like Mayor Tarlos in Budapest [[Dr. Agnes Vadai on the Adriatic!]] And we'll see that it's your good wishes that you'll have a merry Christmas! It will not be easy to run a city. [[Szabó Timea: Is this a confession?]] We are also curious about who will lead the city instead, because we consider that it is difficult for a couple to operate without idealism. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Well, we have seen the fidesz Christian values on the Adriatic! We are a little surprised that these are Christian values!]] A coalition without the same social image is also difficult to function, and now the team leading Budapest does not seem to have the same social image. This will not necessarily bring happiness to leaders as well as to citizens. Let me turn to the question that was one of the most important issues in Prime Minister's speech: family protection, family support. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: So here comes Borkai, right?]] This has two important goals that are important for us, as well as for Christian democrats. One is the demographic situation. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh!]] for Hungary [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There they tried to...]] The main national issue is whether Hungarian children are born. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Then you shouldn't go to the Adriatic!]] Another goal of the family support system is how family as a self-esteem appears to society. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is a very important question. What do you think of the Borkai family?]] I believe that conservative and Christian Democratic perception is important for all of us, that attachment, attachment to home, attachment to family, ties to nation and country and ties to traditions [[Szabó Timea: What part of the luxury ships was traditional?]] these are important things that are able to strengthen a community that is most important to us, the family. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Explain this to me.]] If you'll allow me, a few more sentences on the importance of marriage. [[Uproar, applause in the opposition benches. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Congratulations! We need guidance.]] If we are allowed to speak on an international issue: Prime Minister said that... [[Intercoms from the opposition, among other things: Let's hear it! Defiance in the opposition's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] There's been an outbreak of opposition political culture, I see. We are pleased that the President of the Commission has become a mother of family, a mother of many children, who not only knows what family means but also lives on it. [[An uproar in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's the same in Győr! They're gonna make a living there, too. Laszlo Szászfalvi: Vadai, stop yelling! It's so boring!]] I still have time to talk about the Hungarian plan for climate protection if I try to overhear the opposition. The representation of both plan 30 and plan 50 is a national matter, in which I feel that the opposition should take the support of this instead of the campaign. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you for your understanding patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties and the opposition.]]
u2019-10-21-18	I apologise to my fellow Member, Mr Group leader, for not trying to clean up my mess. And I am very sorry and, on behalf of you, I apologize for the lack of respect for either the elected Member or the age. That should be their problem. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]] I give the floor to Matthew the Car. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-10-21-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, [[Gergely Arató: What about the inhabitants of Józsefváros?]] First of all, thank the Prime Minister for the report. I hope that my time will be sufficient to respond to it and to inform Parliament that the pro-government factions, the greater pro-government faction, will certainly help in the work decided by the government during the period ahead. That's the path the voters have chosen, and that's what we're gonna do. But perhaps it is worth responding to Mr Hadházy in particular, but also to the other group leaders, because, having not seen Mr Hadházy, who is not a faction leader, we have not seen him in the news for quite some time, he has now succeeded, but, you know, Congressman, these are the provocative and anarchist strokes that we have already told you that we will simply react in our own moderate but determined way. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] In spite of the faction leader Lóránt Keresztes here with violence and punishment, the primitive act was committed by you. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] You're the one who did the provocation. An anarchist jerk does that, not a responsible member of Parliament. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] President James, Head of the Group, held a passionate chair before the Renewal of Jobbik, spoke about violence, asking the predecessor of the president sitting next to you how it feels to beat a gypsy [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] How does it feel to spit in the shoes on the shore of the Danube [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] What it feels like to use violence, marching down the street, taking communities on a paramilitary basis. [[It's grumpy.]] What kind of violence is that, Congressman? ! [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Do it so that when you rephrase your seat booker, you can also talk about success as your mayor candidates didn't even put your party's logo on their flyers. [[Interview from Jobbik: János Pócs!]] And if you are angry at the community of politicians who have fallen into sin in 30 years, you are sitting next to them, with whom Gábor Demszky was brought back into power. [[Constant intervention from the opposition benches.]] The people who have already been driven away by the Budapest people still have credibility problems. You're talking about cocaine, when we heard about one fact-pronounced cocaine in the campaign. [[Szabó Timea: Alas, alas!]] Csaba Lackner, representative of the socialists. [[Intruders from the pro-government benches: That's right! Laszlo Szászfalvi: You didn't say anything about that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, It is difficult to pass by: Mr. Group Leader Gyurcsány, we have argued a great deal, and I was on Astoria when the rubber bullets blew by our heads, get off the high horse. [[Zsolt Gréczy: They set the city on fire!]] We'll never forget your eyeballs or your riding charge. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Nor that he was the head of the most corrupt Hungarian government of all time, and the greatest corruption case of all time. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It was under your control with metro 4's case. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. From the ranks of DK and MSZP, regularly: Józsefváros!]] Let me now forget what Mr. Group Leader Gyurcsány said. Head of the Szabó Timea Group is so loud, we congratulate you on that, and as a political feat, I acknowledge that it is remarkable that a zero-percent party member has been elected as the mayor of Budapest. [[Szabó Timea: Aki Christmas!]] We wish you a good job. I think that what a media platform says, Congresswoman, you do not want to define from Parliament. [[Szabó Timea: 51 percent!]] [[Szabó Timea: 51 percent!]] [[Szabó Timea: 51 percent!]] What Origo says is what the Index says (Szabó Timea: 51 percent!) or HVG what it says (Szabó Timea: 51 percent!) I think you should refrain from telling me and making substantive objections. It is not right, and perhaps it is worth it to protect the freedom of the press - these few sentences [[A statement from the opposition: Oh!]] To stay away. The fact that you use intersected communist methods when you get a small partial power, you immediately shut down newspapers. [[Szabó Timea: You paid in country papers! Intercoms from the opposition.]] Either they're threatening janitors or they're threatening civil servants, it's nothing else we've seen in history, and it's nothing new, it's a simple communist method. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] We've seen this before. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Congressman Bertalan Tóth! Congressman Bertalan Tóth, what have we not heard in logic? We heard your speech. We haven't heard from Tamás Wittinghoff. [[Intercom from the opposition: Winner! Gergely Harvester: Botond Sarah has lost!]] Indeed, the campaign failed to risk its case per picture. [[14.10]] We haven't heard from Csaba Lackner on drugs, Mr. President, in your party. You were playing the stupid game of not knowing your own coworker. [[Defiance.]] We had not heard of Csaba Tóth; he was sitting here before, we had not heard of him. [[Szabó Timea: Borkai!]] About plugged-up conflicts, about burying [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We haven't heard of it, either. [[Gergely Harvester's intervention. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Borkai!]] What Mafia methods he's working on. [[György Szilágyi: Why don't we take the sound?]] Dear Enemies, You guys are so used to... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2019-10-21-20	Mr. Team Leader! Mr. Team Leader! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. From the benches of DK and MSZP in choir: Józsefváros! Józsefváros!]] No... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Tough day, Mr. President.]] I'm sorry. I couldn't appreciate your difficulties. Your time is up, so that's why I took your voice. But now I'm giving the Prime Minister a rejoinder if you wish to take it.
u2019-10-21-21	I'd love to. Thank you very much, Mr. President. The only thing I can continue to do here in front of this House is that the members of the government will not stand up to any provocation, and we will also try to take the most absurd opposition points seriously, which is what I will do now. Firstly, I would like to reiterate that, for my part, I would like to thank not only the voters who voted in favour of the ruling party but also the voters who voted in favour of the opposition for their participation in the elections, their views were expressed and, to their best of their knowledge, they elected the representatives and mayors that they think are suitable. As far as the right-wing comment is concerned, I would like to refuse, on behalf of the Hungarian people, to call them the righty. In Hungary, citizens live, free Hungarians live, and we do not tolerate you calling the Hungarian citizens serfs. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Like God, I would like to make it clear that from Christianity and from moral instruction, although we always need good advice, we do not accept such things from little ones. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Crying out of the ranks of the governing parties: Bravo!]] The Jobbik, after all, is the party whose representative spit in the shoes of the victims of the Holocaust, took a photograph of it, posted it, and boasted about it in front of the whole world. We cannot accept moral instruction from you. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We don't want any of that.]] As for the non-free press, I would like to see this childish approach passed on to a more modern approach, because everyone in the world sees that freedom of the press in the world of social media is unlimited. Rather, this is the source of the questions that we need to deal with. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But there is one such... intervention by Gergely Harvesto.]] The problems of the modern world do not stem from the lack of freedom of the press, but from the ability to live together with absolute freedom of the press and their problems, so I find the XXI ridiculous. In the 20th century, free press is missing in countries where social media is not only readable, but can be shaped, written and shaped for everyone. [[Constant intervention from the opposition's benches.]] I therefore find the points made in this regard ridiculous. After that, I would also like to briefly discuss whether there is any reason for a moral approach and, if so, what it is in the case of the Syrian war. [[Bence of Turda: You don't have a chance!]] I would like to advise everyone, after it is a serious issue, to take a serious approach to it and to put illusions in the background. What happened? What happened was that our largest NATO ally, the United States, had moved out of one territory, another NATO Member State had entered, and the United States had then entered into a ceasefire with another State and accepted the situation. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: In the meantime, innocent people were killed! Gergely Harvesto: Shame!]] Does Hungary have to face moral problems in this regard? [[Gergely Harvesto: Protecting murderers! The president's ringing the bell.]] I suggest you think about this. [[Szabó Timea:... is it happening?]] Let us then address the question of whether there is any national interest linked to the conflict in Syria. I'd like to make it clear that there is. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] The fact is that Hungary and the European Union have two options ahead of them. One: we take more than 3 million Syrians in Turkey back to Syria, create living conditions for them, and Turkey opens the gates to Syria before the 3 million Syrians. [[Szabó Timea: And that's why you kill the Kurds?]] The other option is... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:... at this price?]] Talk to the Americans about this. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No, this must be discussed with the Prime Minister.]]
u2019-10-21-22	Please, Congresswoman, try to moderate yourself. [[Szabó Timea: Which one? Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Which Congresswoman? Defiance.]]
u2019-10-21-23	I would like to conclude by saying that the national interest can be seen there, that if the Turks decide not to open the gates to Syria but to the European Union, then we will have serious problems. [[Szabó Timea: No way! Don't do that.]] I would like to inform you that at this moment there are 96 thousand migrants between Turkey and the territory of the European Union. If the Turks open the gates and move towards Europe, they can take two directions [[Gergely Harvesto: They start when there's a war!]] Either they're going to Hungary or they're going to Croatia, and I don't think they're good. They're gonna yell "but we've got a fence." We have a fence, but I don't recommend that we try a situation where there are 100,000 migrants on one side of the fence and 50,000 V4 border guards on the other side. [[Timea Szabó: What does this have to do with genocide?]] I therefore propose that Hungary conduct such foreign policy [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: There's no blood on your hands.]] which allows Turkey to return its Syrian refugees to Syria and create conditions for them to live there. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:...and the Christians too!]] In fact, I propose, as I did at the Council of the European Union, that the European Union and Hungary take financial responsibility and contribute to the creation of cities in the Syrian territories, where possible, where the Syrians can go back from Turkey instead of appearing at the Hungarian-Serbian border. There is therefore a national interest. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As I just had to say, we cannot accept moral instruction from Jobbik, I must say that this is also the case with DK. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is a big problem!]] I would like to reiterate that, of course, all of us, although I do not know if the opposition thinks so, but we all need moral teaching at times, but it doesn't matter who we get it from. I'd like to make it clear that Fidesz has lines that can't be crossed. If the Prime Minister of Hungary at any time says sentences and I quote the President of DK as President-in-Office Prime Minister that we have obviously lied over the last year and a half or two, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Don't look at what he said, look at what he's doing.]] It was quite clear that what we were saying was not true. The second quote is that I almost died, that for a year and a half we had to pretend that we were steering, instead we lied in the morning and at night and at night. Then we can't accept a moral lecture from you. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We have quadrupled the... applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'd like to see the winery, Prime Minister.]] I also see you saying that the mayors took over their offices as a result of some kind of popular uprising. [[Zsolt Gréczy:...the most!]] I would like to believe that people in Hungary voted for a candidate for mayor because they hope that he will work better than his predecessor. [[Szabó Timea: That's right, Christmas...]] And I trust that it will be. However, there are worrying signs, because we all know that this is not a political secret, nor is it rude, because it is well known that the capital was stolen under Gábor Demszky [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's not true!]] And now they're about to honor him with these worrying signs, ladies and gentlemen. As regards the small-scale operation of the capital city, I would like to inform you that since 2010, the capital city has made HUF 1850 billion in government money. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai: We managed to steal most of it!]] They would very much like to be such small towns, small towns and villages in Hungary. I would also like to tell you that at the moment there is a HUF 4853 billion development in the capital; many cities and many villages in Hungary would like to be so small, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It will therefore be important to clarify the question about the ongoing developments in Budapest, which I can say to you that, after the Government has concluded a written agreement with the previous mayor on the developments in Budapest, we will, of course, keep them in letters and numbers. [[14.20]] At the same time, in the case of ongoing investments, we are waiting for the decision of the General Assembly to identify for us the investments that they do not want and which are the ones they want. We would like to make a general meeting decision so as not to create any conflict that could cause any kind of damage as we go along. I would like to make it clear that the Hungarian government is only making improvements in every city and every settlement that the people who live there and their elected leaders want. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] This has been the case in Budapest. [[Bence of Turdai: Don't lie, I didn't!]] Today in Budapest... [[Bence of Turdai:...City Park! Paks II.!]] Every investment in Budapest was discussed with István Tarlós, and he accepted it or personally supported it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Really?]] There is no investment in the capital today that the Mayor and the General Assembly would not have accepted. He's not gonna do it again. We are looking forward to a decision on this and we are also happy to amend the investment plans for this. Ladies and Gentlemen, I find it funny that on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, they are talking about whether the increase to pensioners is sufficient, given that you were the ones who took me away from pensioners in their government time. [[An uproar in the ranks of the opposition. Interview from DK's ranks: 13th month's allowance...!]] a month's pension. Retirementes don't just hope for a reason. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's enough!]] that Hungary has a government, they hope that it will stay, and I also guarantee that the value of pensions [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Hello, piggy!]] Hungary will not forget about pensioners according to the performance of the economy, because we are in the same boat as them. We've always paid for it, we're going to pay for the pension premium, the increases due to inflation. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: a decent living!]] In fact, if the country can afford it and now it is full, we will also give other benefits to pensioners. We won't forget them. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes, you can.]] Because they are our parents and grandparents, not pensioners for us, but our parents and our grandparents, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I find those words about freedom of the press particularly funny from the socialists, probably not in the city in the last few days; in Budapest, the opposition's candidate for mayor had noticeably many more posters. [[A voice from opposition parties: Wow! Defiance in the same place.]] as the candidate for mayor of the government. [[Szabó Timea: It's not about stealing public money, it's about the activists!]] Then the numbers, I hope, when the closure of these comes, will show it. I am not asking any questions about this, I just want to record the fact that, while you are talking about the absence of freedom of the press, the candidate for the mayor of the opposition in the capital has felt and apparently had more posters. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] It's like a government party. Is that what you call a lack of freedom of the press? [[Gergely Harvestó: You can say that, but it's not true!]] Let's take a look, gentlemen. I'm also glad we talked about intimidation. Gentlemen, as I see it, Miss, this is nothing less than you taking a deep breath and starting by announcing the banning of newspapers. Congratulations. [[Szabó Timea: No! No! We'll take it from public squares. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Problems with understanding the text! Uproar, constant interruptions from opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] As I understand it, it's not a mistake or a speech, but, as I understand it, you're not only willing to do it, it's a program with you. [[Szabó Timea: Once again, you can sell at the newsstand! Money! No public money, no public squares.]] So, if I understand correctly... [[Continued intervention from opposition parties.]] So, if I can understand what your position is in the end through this noise, then I can see that you are going to introduce or ban the pages that you do not like. There's nothing new about this. [[Szabó Timea: We won't ban you from the newsstand!]] Because that's what you've done before. They also have qualified specialists who can be reactivated. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, if I understand correctly, all opposition speakers, if I understand correctly, [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Well, maybe Freud can figure out exactly why. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz. Szabó Timea: It's huge!]] But you have done nothing less than today's invitation to the recently elected mayors to fight the Government of Hungary instead of serving the cause of their settlements, instead of cooperating with the government. [[Szabó Timea: No! Gergely Arató: There was no mention of that, my dear Prime Minister.]] They all said, "Freedom of the right, banishment, freedom from intimidation." [[Szabó Timea: Abolition of Slave Law, that's right!]] They even said that they would continue to do so. I'm taking this seriously. I just want you to think about it again. [[Sitting in the seat of the representatives of Dr. Ákos Hadházy, he shows a table showing the following text: .The horse's dick! There's a lot of information in the ranks of opposition parties. It's constant noise.]]
u2019-10-21-24	Congressman! I'm asking you how much longer you can sink into stupidity and rudeness. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] What do you think you're doing? ! [[Dr. Pál Völner: Veterinarian!]] And I'm sorry, I'm not calling an emergency board meeting. But still...
u2019-10-21-25	So, I'd like to ask...
u2019-10-21-26	Excuse me, Prime Minister, if you will be upset, but I would like to predict to the head of the group that, at the next House Committee meeting, we will have something to talk about in terms of how long we want to crush the quality of Parliament's operation into the mud and whether we can or do want to do so. [[Medic!]] I don't know if you had eyes in the back or if you were watching, whether you liked it very much when Congressman Hadházy was just clowning around here. I don't know if they saw what was on that board you showed me. [[Szabó Timea: No, we only saw the luxurious orgy video!]] Well, if you'll just look at it and make a statement as to whether you're ashamed of yourself instead, or if you'd rather try to dissuade your fellow Members from such conduct. There's a limit to everything. Shame on you! [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Complaining from the ranks of Fidesz: Cancel!]] Primitive, stupid son of a bitch! [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What is it?]] Here you go.
u2019-10-21-27	[[Constant noise, interruptions.]] Allow me to advise you not to continue with the style of the text read on paper raised by our opposition fellow Member, but perhaps we should return to the serious question of whether it is right for the mayors who have just been elected to be asked by the opposition to transform the town halls into a place of struggle against the government. [[Intervention from opposition parties.]] I would like to ask the opposition to reconsider this idea, this idea, to reconsider. I propose another agreement, another thought. I ask the newly elected mayors not to pursue this path, but to seek cooperation with the Government of Hungary, so that we can serve the interests of the Hungarian people living in that settlement together. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We don't believe you!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Szabó Timea: Who threatened Miskolc?]]
u2019-10-21-28	Ladies and gentlemen, We will now continue with the comments before the agenda after a brief breath break. The parties' contributions will be announced in advance. I ask all those who feel that they have had enough of today, to leave the Chamber in silence, but quickly, so that we can continue our work, who will remain, and I ask them, if possible, to turn a little down on the emotional potmeter, so that we can somehow begin to compare to a parliament after more than an hour. [[Some of the congressmen are leaving the room.]] Péter James, the leader of the Jobbik faction, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2019-10-21-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I believe you don't like the quality, but you should still stay inside. So this is a job. Well, where are the fellow Members running off to? Where is Prime Minister, who clearly can't read between the lines and doesn't understand the words? Obviously, the people are not serfs, but decent Hungarians, whom we will set free, just as Prime Minister is neither His Majesty, but a common criminal, who will be accounted for, let us leave it at that. [[14.30]] Prime Minister, I would add you're already terrified of going out with people, perhaps not by accident... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2019-10-21-30	Congressman, I warn you that you are in the Parliament and you are talking about the first man of the government elected by the Hungarian electorate, who should not use such words even if you were not a Prime Minister, but a simple voter, whose dignity you must respect. I don't know if you understand the problem, because if you don't understand, I'll give you some time to think. Or you'll be able to continue your contribution in a civilized tone. There's a limit to everything. Now stop it, please. [[Noise, interrogations from Jobbik's ranks: I can't hear what he's saying. Dr. Brenner Koloman: At least we imitate Parliament.]] I don't know, Congressman, if you're able to continue in a civilized tone, or if you're going to continue in this style? I would add that this will also have consequences. [[There's a lot of noise, interference from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2019-10-21-31	There's a limit to everything, Mr. Speaker, everything, theft and the arrogance of power, there's a limit to everything. What I do not understand is that Prime Minister, who said that he did not like to threaten, why he came to Miskolc, why he had come to numerous Hungarian cities before the municipal elections, and why he threatened people with the fact that if they chose opposition mayors, the funds would be lost. Why is it that Prime Minister has traveled the country in secret, by the way? He came to Miskolc to shoot a photo, but he didn't dare to meet people. I'll add, we, the good guys, went around the country, but we didn't go behind closed doors, we didn't say propaganda in front of a registered audience. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks, including: You didn't even have a list.]] We did, we went out on the street, we listened to people's opinions to see what they should represent here in Parliament. And indeed, the sad experience, fellow Members, is that despite the success propaganda outlined by the Prime Minister, the countryside is extremely poor. Poor, but he wants to live, and he is looking for helping hands that can bring Hungarian people together, because rural Hungarians see that our problems are indeed common, and we have to solve these problems together. People are fed up with serialization, migrantism, hatred. Hungarians don't want hatred, they want to know what? Quality wages for quality work. In exchange for paid-up social security, quality care. In exchange for the contributions paid, quality pension benefits. In exchange for the taxed fuel, there are ways to go. In exchange for the train ticket, at least keep the schedule. Colleagues, the Hungarian people don't want much, just as much as they deserve, and not for free, but in exchange for the amount of public burdens that Hungarians carry on their backs to make this country work. Because make no mistake, this country is not run by you, you're just robbing it. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] This country is kept alive by the diligence, talent and infinite patience of the Hungarian people, and you are abusing this patience. They'll abuse you when Comrade Fat says things like that you don't have to raise the wages of the people here... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic. Crying out of Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2019-10-21-32	Congressman, I'm afraid I'm going to withdraw you from the floor. Sit down, please. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks, among them: Shame on you!]] And study the house rules. Study the house rules: I just warned you. First of all, you have spoken with a content deeply offensive to the authority of the Parliament, and you have also criticised the sitting of the House. I'm not your comrade, God forbid. [[Uproar, noise, interrogations from Jobbik's ranks, including: Comrade MSZMP KB!]] So I resent it. To the next comment, Mr Lajos Korózs has the floor. It's time for Congressman Lajos Korózs. [[On the sign of Lajos Korózs:]] Yes, if you're the Koróss Lajos, then yes. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition, among them: He was offended by the comradeship...]] They might recognize themselves.
u2019-10-21-33	I apologize... [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches, including Bence Tordai: Don't you need a pro-government reaction? The house rules? Of course, the way Comrade Fat directs it. The way it's raining, the way it's raining.]] Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In August of last year, someone in the Heves County Lounge illegally spilled a large amount of sewage sludge. There was quite a lot of indignation about this, and the mayor of the then Fidesz mayor of the town of Hatvan, who is quite close to each other, said that there was a great deal of trouble, because more and more trucks would most likely follow the sewage sludge spilled to the permeable hour next to the town of Lőrinci. Then some of my colleagues and I started digging around after how the sewage sludge actually got here. Then our search resulted in a fairly large amount of sewage sludge coming from Croatia to Hungary, so we turned to the Croatian authorities with a public request and the Croatian Ministry of Environment and Energy answered it willingly. It turned out that they were allowed to bring 52,000 tons of sewage sludge to Hungary in 2018, but in order to arrive in Hungary, sewage sludge has to be some kind of wholesaler in Hungary, because I would like to state here, too, that the Croatians are not bringing this vast quantity here. In addition, the Croatian Ministry replied that some 39 thousand tonnes were imported in the previous year. I would like to make it clear, my fellow Members, that this 52 thousand tonnes last year is more than 2400 trucks of sewage sludge. He followed the words, months passed, and I asked a written question, and from the reply of Minister Palkovic, more precisely Secretary of State Cseresnyés, it was practically possible to read that there was nothing to do here, there is nothing to see here, there is a permit for everything. We have not debated this for a minute, because we know well that in international matters, the Pest County Government Office is acting, and indeed, these shipments were covered by contracts. But then the scandal was bigger, because Egerszalok had a newly registered cvt. 200,000 tonnes, I stress: 200,000 tons of sewage sludge were to be deposited in the middle of the wine region, the wine region of Eger, about 1000 to 1200 metres from the sources of heat. There was quite a lot of indignation in the area, and then the media noticed this, because it was impossible to hide that Székesfehérvár, designed for Egerszalok, and, as it has been shown, Tapolcafő is also a part of the town of Pápa carrying sewage sludge. Looking at the deliveries, it turns out it's not just coming from Croatia, it's coming from Slovenia with maribor plates. Who knows, I do a lot of work on matters that concern our future, so I did a lot of research. It has become clear from Eurostat data that they should hold on in recent years, fellow Members. All of Slovenia's sewage sludge landed in Hungary, but it was only Croatian sewage sludge at the time. This may seem a little chaotic, but the public data requests we submitted to various organisations and as we received answers, it was clear that a significant part of the sewage sludge in the neighbouring countries, each kilogram of Zagreb's city, lands in Hungary, every shipment of Slovenia's sewage sludge lands in Hungary, and in the meantime, it has been found that large quantities of Italy are being imported and brought from Austria in the past. From Austria, where the ministries banned it. It cannot be used for agricultural purposes in any province of Austria. Summa summarum, Minister Gergely Gulyás said during the summer that it would be removed with immediate effect so that sewage sludge could be brought to Hungary. On the other hand, I see that I was out last week, on several occasions in the summer I followed trucks at the Croatian border, at the Slovenian border, and I saw them bring the sewage sludge to Hungary in unwound quantities to this day. Why are you bringing him here? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's my simple question: why are they bringing it? Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-34	To reply, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-10-21-35	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You and your opponents are in fierce competition to find topics that can slightly improve their political perception. They also do this when, in a given case, they mislead the Hungarian people by expressing their views. You, wherever you can, are interfering with the government's environmental efforts and do not support the development of waste management at all. I will inform you again, we will inform you again that the government has decided that there is no need to import foreign sewage sludge. We do not allow anyone to think of Hungary as a waste dump or a waste disposal workshop in Europe. We listened to the problems, and the government immediately took the necessary measures. [[14.40]] The fact is, however much you would like to hear the contrary, that the contribution of the Pest County Government Office to the transboundary imports of sewage sludge has not been issued for more than two and a half months and that the existing permits are currently being reviewed. Honourable Congressman, There is no risk of contamination of drinking water or production areas at all against your alarm. We don't keep secrets, we don't spread false news. Please don't do this. We agree that Hungary's environmental and natural state is of paramount importance. Protecting the created world is a priority for all of us, as well as ensuring an adequate quality of life for Hungarian families and eliminating health-damaging conditions. Honourable Congressman, I can assure you that the government will do everything in its power not to enter our country from abroad to waste sewage sludge. We dealt with and resolved the issue of sewage sludge properly. One of the objectives of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology is to create a clean, sustainable country. In this we count on your cooperation and support, as it is in the common interest of all of us. The government is working to ensure that Hungary's development is sustainable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-21-36	In the name of the Dialogue, it's Bence Tordai.
u2019-10-21-37	Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Free, solidarity and green Budapest. That's what Gergely Christmas promised in case we won the mayor's election. And we won it. Not a little, a lot. Free Budapest has become a reality. Budapesters have taken back their city from Fidesz. That's what happened in the mayor's election, and that's what happened in the majority of the districts. And not only the people of Budapest, but also the people of Szeged, Miskolcs, Pécs, Hódmezővásárhelyi, Budaörs, Szombathely, Érdians, Dunaújváros, Salgótarjánians, Egerians, Tatabányas, Ceglédis, Bajas, island-szentmiklos, Vácias, Szentesians, Jászberényi, Szentendres, 60s, Gödians, Pomazis, Lips, Kazincbarcians, Siófok, and the line could all continue to be taken back or protected from Fidesz. Viktor Orbán's Nersevik system has been corrupted. Once again, the power of the people proved to be stronger than the men of power. Gergely Christmas, co-president of the Dialogue, the joint candidate for mayor of opposition parties, can hold Hungary's highest directly elected public office with the support of the absolute majority of voters. We have promised and will implement a free, solidarity and green Budapest. What does that mean in practice? I'll explain because I'm afraid the Fidesz people have forgotten the meaning of those words. Come in. It is not the manual driven operation of the Fidesz Party State, but a culture that builds on trust, encourages autonomy, ensures fair competition and gives room for good initiatives. Solidar. It's the opposite of a fidesz policy based on manipulation, sharing, inciting each other. The basic value of the left, which means that we are mutually responsible for each other; that there is no first- and second-rate citizen, that everyone counts, and that everyone can count on each other when they get into trouble. Solidarity is the cornerstone of the Republic, and under the leadership of Gergely Christmas in Budapest, we will show what Republic politics means in practice. Green. The expression of our responsibility for humanity and the planet, the extension of solidarity to future generations, our fellow humans most affected by the ecological crisis, and all living things. To be understood by the Fidesz, being green means not denying the thousands of facts of climate change and environmental disaster, but trying to stop and reverse this self-destructive policy. Under the leadership of Gergely Christmas, we will implement this green left-wing program in Budapest and we hope that all the opposition leaders will be elected. This is therefore the result of the October 13 election from the winners' side. But since Fidesz is not strong enough to face reality honestly and learn lessons, I will help you. I'll tell you why the Fidesz lost. In one word, mostly because they're unfit. They're incompetent. I'm not talking primarily about whether Lajos Kósa is intellectually capable of conducting a campaign. It is not even about whether Fidesz had suitable candidates or whether they are suitable for writing a program at all. I'm talking about Fidesz being morally unfit to run the country or a city. We have known this for a long time, but by now it has become clear to most of the voters: there are no two Fidesz. There's one Fidesz. The Borkai Zsolt Fidesz, since all the Fidesz leaders are active or passive accomplices in cases like Borkai's. Each of them is a fidesz accomplice in draining the community's wealth, stealing or hijacking public funds, illegal or illegal corruption. He uses people's money for immoral private purposes, not only Borkai, but the rest of the Fidesz. Lőrinc Mészáros yachts, Viktor Orbán private jets, Zsolt Borkai yachts and private jets. Árpád Habony plays cocaine, has fun with half the Fidesz-KDNP prostitutes, Zsolt Borkai plays cocaine and has fun with prostitutes. That's pretty much the difference. Nothing. You are morally unfit to lead the country, you are unworthy of the confidence of the Hungarians. That is the lesson of the 13 October election, the defeat of Fidesz on 13 October. That's it. In fact, that's it.
u2019-10-21-38	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, please.
u2019-10-21-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to refer you back to the events of the past few minutes before I respond in detail. First of all, I would like to make it clear that where we are now is not a circus, but a parliament, which belongs to the country that we love most. Secondly, obsceneness, the style of the pub, cannot mask the lack of substance to be said. The opposition can now agree on one thing, and its programme can be summarized in a sentence, and that is the sentence that Congressman Ákos Hadházy presented a few minutes ago. Third, they can't hit the roadside style so much, they can't provoke us so much that we don't want our country any more, so every time they get into trouble, we're going to look at it with patience, and we're going to continue the work we've been entrusted with until the voters give us permission to do so. Honourable Congressman, As I understand it, you are now pleased with the result of the municipal election, and even though Fidesz won it, you are declared to be winners. I'm not going into this numerical debate right now, but what you've said means that you're not questioning the results. So they admit with a binding attitude that, in recent years, what has been said about the Hungarian electoral system, which has been used to eavesdrop the foreign press [[Timea Szabó: Gergely Christmas won.]] And the international institutions, that was not true. [[Szabó Timea: Yes! Yes!]] Or should I say, it was a big lie. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] October 13th proved that every political party can kick the ball, win, even if it masks itself as a civilian. [[Timea Szabó: For example Balázs Bús.]] So, we can agree that Hungarian democracy is alive and well, so I suggest that you stop the anti-national debauchery actions. As far as the results in Budapest are concerned, the voters in Budapest decided to entrust Gergely Christmas with the city's leadership. We want good and effective work for this. However, there is one thing we do not want to leave behind. The days since the election of Christmas Gregory are extremely instructive, and we hear a banging on the door more and more loudly, and if we look at who it is, it's the past. The past is pounding. The day after the election, they started backing out of their election promises. [[Szabó Timea: Which one? Which one, exactly? List, please.]] Instead, the austerity proposals are back, and even more serious, the characters of the past are back: Mónika Lamperth, Zoltán Gál, Gábor Demszky. We feel like we're watching the once-a-day sunrise broadcast. It's like Christmas in October. It's like one of the characters of the Gyurcsány era pops out of every gift box. [[Szabó Timea: Árpád Szabó, Lőrinc Mészáros! Gergely Harvestó: It's a good thing you accept defeat!]] And that's what you see in the specific cases. The idea of free BKV for young people has already been back-danced. [[Szabó Timea: No!]] They didn't mean it, they're not going to introduce it, and they're not doing it now anyway. There is a suspicion that the people of Budapest have been deceived. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches. Szabó Timea: Very lame! That's a lie! That's a lie!]] However, the congestion fee is already being considered, on which one thing is clear: we inherited this from Gábor Demszky as an obligation. István Tarlós didn't introduce it, but now Gergely Christmas wants it. He says there's a plug-in in his program. [[Gergely Arató: Accept the victory of Christmas!]] The return of Gábor Demszky, his appearance, by the way, is more than meaningful. He is already talking about borrowing, contacting the World Bank and referring to privatisation revenues as good practice, and clearly suggesting to the attention of Gergely Christmas the Mr Timmermans who regularly attacks Hungary. [[Gergely Harvesto: Don't worry about it. How about you don't accept defeat? What would that look like?]] What he proposes, honourable Member, is not the way to build, not the way to cooperate. We see other signs of people coming back from the past. You promise no ideology, but you're already going to Nazi a Hungarian writer. [[Szabó Timea: No! We promise you a green, solidarityary Budapest!]] They're attacking newspapers, promising theater applications, but they're already telling us who can't win, and they're looking at firing professionals. That's what your freedom means. [[Moraj from the benches of the opposition. Szabó Timea: Fascists! We agree that we do not support fascists!]] [[14.50]] Specific proposals have also been made, namely proposals on what investments to stop. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Stop in Budapest. Again, this isn't about construction. [[Constant noise, interruptions from the opposition benches. Szabó Timea: island of Shipyard!]] Honourable Member, the responsibility of Budapest's leadership now belongs to Gergely Christmas, now you can prove that she can run a city. It is in our best interest not to lead Budapest the way he led Zuglo. It's in our best interest not to steal it. [[Constant intervention from the opposition benches, among others: Gergely Arató: We beat you to death in Zuglo, do you mind?]] behind the back of the city, don't let the nocical boxes and the Miklós Hagyó parizers come again. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:...will not be incorporated into the Fundamental Law!]] It is in our common interest that Budapest continues to be the pride of all Hungarians. If it's up to the government, that's how it's gonna be. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-40	Ferenc Gyurcsány applied for a pre-meeting speech.
u2019-10-21-41	Ladies and Gentlemen, Although I wanted to share other thoughts with you this very intense afternoon [[Dr. Pál Völner: Are you happy?]] but given the fact that the President-in-Office believes that the criticism of his policy must be dealt with by sentences of a speech from 13 years ago, otherwise famous [[Dr. Pál Völner: Ancient sin!]] I do not object to discussing this issue at the time, although we have rarely talked about it recently. Even if I am sorry to say so, I think it is political and human mediocrity. [[Bence of Turdai:]] Look! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The voters don't think so!]] The struggle that many of us, including myself, have been going on for a long time is about cleaning up the confused, corrupt public life of hundreds of thousands and millions of Hungarians after the change of regime. That is part of my political career. The more sensible, not everyone, Mr. Secretary, understands the essence of this speech. You see, I'm willing to turn against some of my own. [[Dr. Pál Völner: When?]] Because I understand that the service of the country can't happen if they don't do it honestly. They understand that being a politician is not because you can ride a good motorbike, because you can have fun on a yacht, because they give you a good salary, but because this country needs an honest driving. If this requires breaking the unacceptable morals and culture of even some of the people close to us, then this is the task. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Failed!]] Not to proclaim the, we defend the 11th commandment of the guilty, but to declare that there is no deal, because whoever steals, please, is not a politician, but a criminal! [[Interventions from opposition benches: That's right! Applause in the same place. Intercom from the pro-government benches: The entire opposition! Clap your hands!]] I have no doubt that the country can otherwise be served legitimately with many views, dreams and programs. There's only one way to serve him. We have been entrusted by our constituents to serve them. You and I, for an average high school principal, are very well paid. Very well. They're just dreaming of a salary like that. Those of you who lose a single penny of your commons and, frankly, I see a lot of these people, I see that this is going to be part of the Fidesz membership statement with you, they are going to go against everything I and we think of their country. And if that's what I fought for in 2006, then I'm proud of it. If you read to me the very passionate, perplexing sentences of that speech, you may be right, from your own point of view, but to the point of fact, you are not only wrong, you are lying. Because, you know, the more great thing to do is to fight for this to be a normal country, with respectable politicians, with people who know and dare to serve their country with honor, it's worth fighting their own. You don't understand much of this. [[István Szilárd Németh looking up: It's coming down!]] You believe that political tricks, communication, constant attack can achieve results [[György Balla: Hundreds of tricks!]] I don't think so. This country can be served with humility and honor. I am infinitely proud that many people today think the same thing about you. On this side, many have entered politics, perhaps arguing with me more than once, because they wanted another world. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: This is science fiction!]] There are a lot of honest, honest people here. Even a lot of people might think differently about what they did five, ten or fifteen years ago, but, frankly, you're the last ones to look them in the eye. You've been everything in this country. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches, among them: That's right!]] There is no political point that you have not tried to occupy, because for thirty pieces of silver, you would have sold not only the Christian traditions but also your own mother. [[Szabó Timea: That's right! Applause from the opposition benches.]] That's the situation, please. And yet I think it's good for us to stick to our dignity and decency. And you guys, to get this far, I think you should go all the way to Damascus. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-42	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again. Here you go.
u2019-10-21-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the last few minutes, we've heard the voice of a struggling man. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] and I understand that, because it's become clear over the last few minutes that you continue to struggle with the memory of the autumn speech and your own conscience. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] which I understand, and the fact is, Mr Group Leader, that this will remain so as long as you remain active in Hungarian public life. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Give me the titty! Applause from the pro-government benches.]] And there is a reason why we continue not to accept lectures from those who have lied through the years, have used hundreds of tricks you said, we didn't say, you said, and who, winning elections, have done exactly the opposite of what they told the Hungarians. With the autumn speech, Mr. Group leader, the problem is that it wasn't an empty speech, it was the basis of their own policy, which almost destroyed the country. I'm bringing all this up because it's topical right now, because it's very clear how, after the election on Sunday, the entire left is backing out of his election promises, and instead [[Zsolt Gréczy: Tell me!]] outlines a policy [[Zsolt Gréczy: Name one from which we backed out.]] which is not new at all, but reminiscent of the worst traditions of the Gyurcsány-Bajna era. I'm not just thinking that they're not even taking their seats, and they're already pinning everything on the government, including the weather. The bigger problem is that they would bring back the old reflexes, the long-lost politics, and people who failed six times. [[Gergely Arato: You didn't understand much of the president's speech.]] The blind can see, Mr. Group Leader, that while you are putting young people on stage, you are in the background. You stood behind Gergely Christmas and moved again by people we thought would be [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Nana, not Borkai!]] We used to think they hung up on the political lute years ago, but even if they hung up, they'd be grabbing it again. It is enough to see what Gábor Demszky suggested; I will not say it again, because it is shocking in itself. He suggested borrowing and co-operation with Timmermans. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Let's add that your men, Your Honour, have launched a massive attack on the districts and the mayor's office, and the retro party has started, where we see different costumes, but during the costumes, the debut figures of the pre-2010 era are dancing. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's you!]] As regards moral issues, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Zsolt Borkai?]] On DK's birthday a few days ago, perhaps, if I recall correctly, you asked the delegates to be honest and to help restore the integrity of the political profession. Ferenc Gyurcsány launches a campaign for honor, for the honor that the ceiling doesn't break! Really! [[Gergely Harvesto: You don't understand the words! We'll explain later.]] That Ferenc Gyurcsány is campaigning for these! [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: So, what's with the outrage?]] If you guys were serious about this, [[Zsolt Gréczy: Borkai! Borkai! Borkai!]] then they wouldn't have tried to rug down the Kispest scandal. The scandal has been tearing up candidates and their allies, and you have supported them one by one, who are sitting here. What did they say? The left-wing people of Kispest were talking about the fact that anyone who doesn't make 100 million forints a year is stupid. They also talked about the exercises that can be used to pump the money out. It is also that the trustee attached to the left was only called Mr. Forty Percent. [[15.00]] The cautious voice also spoke, saying that it is not easy to retire from the left because it is possible to spend 200-250 million forints quickly. It's hard to quote the worst part of this conversation here in the House. It says that the next five years will be tough, and here comes an 18-ring section, because you have to drive the bike properly so you don't have to work too much. You have to drive the bike properly so you don't have to work too much. This is a man you supported. And how you handled this scandal tells me everything. The mayor on the left of Kispest said without a hint that he didn't even know this man, he didn't know him. Your spokesperson has arranged the whole thing with the Mayor questioning the credibility of this conversation, and you believe him and act accordingly. Cut! Cut! And the case hasn't had any consequences since then, no resignations, no demands on the players to resign. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're wrong! We'll get you a newspaper!]] This can only mean one thing, that this is the norm on the left, that they want to drive a bicycle in many places without having to work too much. Right now, they want to install bicycles like this in a dozen municipalities. Don't think we're gonna let this go. You've been making a very expressive statement these days, saying that the debate is continuing on who should be the leader of the opposition, and you have a personal proposal for this. Maybe she winked while she was doing it, thinking of herself. Now, here's the thing: the movements of the past weeks were nothing on the left but to strengthen the role of the leader of Ferenc Gyurcsány. This overrides everything, and there is a great risk that this push will also affect the lives of local governments. If the elected representatives will work for their city, then the government will become a partner in the building work, but if not, we will not let it go. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-44	László Lóránt Keresztes is next, on behalf of the LMP. Here you go.
u2019-10-21-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am deeply sorry that Prime Minister has already left the meeting, because an exciting, interesting debate is beginning to unfold. I would like to respond a little bit to the Prime Minister's words and also to the words of Secretary Dömötör. Both Prime Minister and Secretary of State mention specific corruption cases, past cases of corruption many years ago. I think we all remember that in 2010, you came to power with the promise of accountability. Well, where's the accountability you promised me? This has not been done, and I believe that you are responsible for a significant part of this. By the way, I would be happiest if those people, those political actors or those organizations that have already proved that they have deceived Hungarian people or stolen Hungarian people would have won or won their decent punishment and disappeared from public life. But back to the original topic: I think it cannot be said enough, and I repeat in my speech before the current agenda that we thank all Hungarian people for their participation in the municipal elections. This election was of great importance, we can say that it was more important than the parliamentary election. I believe that your attitude, the crisis councils that you have well heard, is underlining that you yourself have acknowledged that the parties of government and the government have suffered a serious defeat in this respect. And I am convinced that this defeat did not happen because of the scandal that affected the mayor of Győr, but because, as some of my opposition colleagues have said, more and more people realize that this is the reality of the system's operation, which this particular scandal has presented, is what characterizes your entire system. Your system is based on lies, corruption, and there are no traces of Christian values underneath or beside it. The reason they suffered such defeat in this municipal election is because your system is based on governors who are not interested in local people, the fate of those living in that settlement, they are not interested in poverty, they are not interested in poverty in many cases, they are not interested in the greatest national challenge that our nation is facing, this particular forced emigration. All that has happened is that more and more people see it, see it, and more and more people are willing to express it with their votes. This change has happened, which is certainly encouraging. We may also have a debate with the Prime Minister. He said that the opposition encouraged elected mayors and representatives not to work for their settlements, but to conduct some sort of campaign against the government. Well, that's not true. I have just said the opposite: it is extremely important that both opposition representatives, mayors and pro-government or even the largest number of independent Members have a duty to work for their own settlement. And in the next period, they will have no other task like this, since they have to prove that they can run settlements fairly, honestly and effectively. At the same time, this requires that the Prime Minister, the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament ensure the conditions that are necessary for the management of a settlement, a city, a district or a small settlement. The Deputy Prime Minister yelled at me in my previous comment. I don't think he can see that these terms are not given. Indeed, it has to be said, and it has also turned out at today's meeting of the Economic Committee that you do not understand, see through or are not interested in the fact that the most important public service directly affecting the lives of Hungarian people is on the brink of collapse. It's the water supply, but the Deputy Prime Minister didn't understand that. The financing of water supply must be provided by the municipalities responsible for the service, but the municipalities are unable to do so. It would be necessary for the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament to make significant amendments on your initiative, but you will always fail to do so. At today's Committee on Economic Affairs, it has also been demonstrated that despite the opposition's presentation of proposals on the part of the profession, you reject them without a substantive, concrete debate. I think this is a serious responsibility for you, because here you can cause damage to Hungarian society and the economy that will be very difficult to repair in the event of a change of government. At the end of my comment, I would like to thank once again with respect everyone who, in addition to taking part in the election, supported the candidates of the May Other Politics. And I would like to thank you very much for the fact that, in many places, in some cooperation, but in many places, the representatives of LMP have been given a very strong and strong mandate for the third time to represent the people in that settlement. The representatives of the LMP will do their job with honor, integrity, in the spirit of the fight against corruption, in the interests of transparency, the development of the local economy and local economic operators and businesses. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-46	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-10-21-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I thank all the voters who have come and voted in the municipal elections. We wish all elected mayors and representatives good health and good work for the next five years. However, in your speech, Your Honour, you said everything and the opposite. He also said that criminals before 2010 should be in prison, and then for three minutes, they should be in the government. It would be good to decide exactly what you intend to do about the criminals before 2010, who are involved in politics, or those who have become criminals as politicians. That is, however, certain of the results of the elections, honourable Member, before you list the names of all the local government representatives who won all three independent LMP colours, that Fidesz-KDNP has won 51 percent of the votes in the municipalities. We also thank 1.8 million people for their trust. On the other hand, the opposition alliance which assembled itself and gave up all its principles later won the vote of 1 million 360,000 people. It is also clear that it depends on the results that you consider Hungary to be a democracy or dictatorship, because five years ago, even earlier, when the municipal electoral system was adopted by Parliament, they turned to the Constitutional Court and said that the new electoral system was completely illegal. The MSZP stated that the current system is significantly disproportionate, extremely majority, based on the interests of a party. DK says it's neither fair nor fair. Your election program also included changing the electoral system, threshold, two rounds, winning compensation, list, individual mandate, everything needs to be changed. In fact, your Soros-funded institutions published a resolution on 11 June 2014, the Helsinki Committee, the Eötvös Károly Institute, the Company for Freedom Rights, which said that what was established in the law in the municipal electoral system was incompatible with the principles of constitutionality and international electoral standards. It is also written that the electoral system significantly undermines the legitimacy of the 2014 municipal elections and any other local elections organised under these rules. And then you're all over the media saying that every local government that comes together in elections under this law is illegal. Now, when you have succeeded in one or two places, the opposition's cooperation will suddenly become a mayor, it's already legitimate, it's legit, it's even the triumph of freedom and democracy, what's going on in the municipal elections. Honourable Member, you are celebrating a law that you have violated in the Constitutional Court because it is not democratic. Even Gergely Christmas, then even with Viktor Szigetvári, said that the system of electoral procedure still serves only the power interests of Fidesz, and that different declarations could still be classified from that time. [[15.10]] Honourable Congressman, Not only has LMP given up that politics can be different by becoming a part of this alliance, but all opposition parties have shown that for any kind of basic principle and any kind of principle overrider, it is somehow in power that it is able to occupy some kind of position. You are celebrating the Christmas Gergely, who was about to bring your faction here in Parliament a few years ago to the brink of operation, by ending the LMP faction, and then you are celebrating this Christmas Gregory as mayor, who attacked you in the back. You were created in 2010 to change the system, the arrangement that marked by Gyurcsány's name, the pre-2010 period, and now you are pushing Ferenc Gyurcsány's chariot and working together in his electoral alliance. Here in Parliament, Ferenc Gyurcsány did not quite understand Gergely Christmas, because with him a power center is created on the left-wing opposition side, which is not necessarily under the direction of Ferenc Gyurcsány and the President of DK, and everyone from László Botka to Gergely Christmas is in the way of his power, so he did not belong to them here in Parliament with a single praise, although in municipal elections important mayor or mayor positions were achieved. Honourable Congressman, For some time, it may mean a position for you and Jobbik and MSZP and DK and all other opposition parties to achieve some success, but I believe that in the medium term, voters will not reward politicians who have sent their principles, but will punish them in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-48	Mr László Szászfalvi, representing KDNP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2019-10-21-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, KDNP is a family party and, in our view, the future for society is the strengthening of families. From 2010 onwards, the Orbán governments have implemented a paradigm shift in family support and state social policy. We have developed a complex support system in which the individual elements strengthen each other. As a list only: family tax reduction, first-wives discount, ged extra, introduction of CSOK, free textbooks, free children's meals, and the opening of a chance home-program. With all these measures, we have doubled the amount of budget support in this area, and in the 2019 budget we are already spending more than HUF 2000 billion on supporting Hungarian families. Dear House, However, the government did not stop here, the government launched a successful national consultation on this subject, and as a result, Prime Minister, presented the seven-point family support action plan to the public at the beginning of the year. The aim of all this, our common goal, is to make Hungary a family-friendly country, and children are the first for us. Since then, after the necessary government and parliamentary decisions, most of the measures entered into force on 1 July: baby shower support, as well as interest-supported loans related to the purchase of unused assets and the CSOK can be requested from July. Families can also benefit from the possibility of letting go of mortgage loans from 1 July, as well as the start of car shopping support for large family members. The implementation of the largest cradle development programme is underway. In three years, the government will create another 20,000 cradle seats compared to the current one, thus increasing the number of seats from 50,000 to 70,000 in 2022. From 1 January 2020, two new measures will be launched: the introduction of women with at least four children and grandparents' children. Dear Parliament, The majority of opposition parties are still trying to attack this historic seven-point action plan, saying that these opportunities can only be used by a narrow layer. Let's get to the slick facts, then. By the end of August 2019 114 thousand families requested the CSOK, which means almost half a million Hungarians, counting the average number of children. The grant amounts to HUF 340 billion. Only 16,000 people in the last four months have applied for car shopping support for large family members, and the amount of subsidies has already been over HUF 1.5 billion. More than 42 000 people have applied for baby shower support, and more than 32 thousand have already signed contracts. So far, 311 billion HUF has been paid to the claimants. The measure to reduce the mortgage loan has been applied for by 5 000 people, one family has been able to reduce its debt by an average of 1.4 million forints since July. Ladies and gentlemen, From 2020, all measures of the family protection action plan will be available, which is why the government was guided by the goal of family-friendly Hungary when drawing up its 2020 budget. As a result, nearly HUF 2228 billion will be available next year to support Hungarian families. This will be nearly HUF 224 billion higher than this year's amount. Dear House, These decisions and programmes have been extremely important over the past period, we could say that this is a historic social policy programme, and this government response is the only sensible solution to halt population loss despite any attack. However, we are also aware that these measures should not only be continued, but should be expanded with further targeted programmes for the benefit of Hungarian young people and Hungarian families. The KDNP faction supports the government's efforts and decisions in this respect by all means. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-50	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-10-21-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that the municipal elections also show that if the opposition is placed anywhere in a small part of the position, it goes right back to the past, immediately calling back the people before 2010, the goals and the flowering of words before 2010 will be revealed. After all, besides Gergely Christmas, we can already see the various key figures of the world that disappeared before 2010, that Gábor Demszky is already giving out various advice on IMF credit, and that is what we saw here in Parliament at the beginning of this summer when there was a debate on the budget law and we saw the opposition amendment proposals coming up. In many cases, these amendments have been taken from family support, sometimes from one line, sometimes from the other line. As Congressman said, it was a small sum of HUF 960 billion in 2010, much higher in the budget for next year, HUF 2228 billion, but if it had been passed on to the opposition, they would have taken the items from these lines and transferred them to their own different purposes. Therefore, if the opposition had been a majority in the debate in spring or early summer this year, the value of family support would not have increased by more than HUF 100 billion in the next year's budget, but would have decreased and spent entirely on other expenses. It's a tradition. This has always been the case in the socialist period, since they took the interest-rate subsidies on HUF loans related to the purchase of new dwellings and the creation of homes, took away the tax relief of single and two children, radically reduced the tax relief of three children, took away the child's child benefit from the third year, so they also reduced the amount of the child that could be used for one child by nearly one third. So every time there was a way and an opportunity, the socialist governments had taken me out of it. In addition, some of them have now made it an ideology, as we have heard Tamás Bauer and others in recent years, who have said that we should spend it on migration rather than on Hungarian families. They said, and in Brussels they applauded and nodded that, yes and yes, instead of supporting Hungarian families, the funds generated by the budget should be devoted to migration. So they would continue to do the same thing they stopped doing in 2010, and they would take it away from families in the same way. And although the Hungarian is a family-loving people, the child was of value in every family, it is clear nevertheless that the desire to have children is not independent of the government's family policy and tax policy. [[15.20]] After all, in 2002, Hungary was still somewhere at the end of the middle field in terms of childbearing, so-called total fertility rates for the Member States of the European Union, and this was played in the last 28th place by 2010, under 8 years of balliberal government. With the anti-family, family austerity policy they took, the number of children per 200 parents was down to 115, which was the worst rate in the European Union. And since 2010, we have managed to improve 16 places on this list with family-friendly governance and family-friendly politics, and Hungary is back in the middle field, so we have been able to improve the desire to have children in Hungary to a noticeable extent, and now 145-149 children are available for 200 Hungarian people, 100 couples in Hungarian, who can have children. Therefore, it does not matter whether we turn to families or not, because families obviously feel financial security or feel no financial security, which is one of the half of having children. Obviously, this is primarily an emotional decision, a personal decision by two people, but in this day and age, it is an important consideration for the third child or for the second child that the state can provide assistance here. In recent years, we have tried very hard to do so. Out of next year's family spending, HUF 163 billion is linked to the family protection action plan you have listed. As a result of our decisions to date, 300 billion HUF has already been allocated to housing subsidies, this year's source is already several times higher than in 2010, one million families have been able to live with the family tax reduction, 130 thousand people have neither paid taxes nor contributions, and with the new home creation program, the village CSOK we have opened up new opportunities. 114 thousand people required the CSOK, worth 340 billion forints [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We have improved the housing of nearly half a million people, and perhaps most importantly, 55,000 children have been taken on by the CSOKs so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-52	As the last speaker before the agenda, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group, on behalf of Fidesz, is next. Here you go.
u2019-10-21-53	Mr. President. Dear House, Let me first congratulate all elected representatives and mayors on behalf of Fidesz, and wish them good luck with their work. We've heard a lot about the results of the municipal elections, but it's not a coincidence that almost no one has said any numbers, because the numbers are somewhat different from what we've heard here, especially from the opposition. The numbers I'm presenting are the result of the official outcome of the National Election Office, everyone can check. The fact is that Gergely Christmas won the mayor's title in the capital, but it is also a fact that, in addition to higher municipal electoral participation, there were 50 thousand fewer voters than opposition parties in the European Parliament elections in spring. Meanwhile, Fidesz was able to increase the number of voters in the capital by 24,000. This was not enough for Fidesz to work out the difference that was shown in the elections to the European Parliament on the opposition's side, but we have tightened the opposition to an unprecedented extent on the basis of the number of voters. Let's see what the same situation has to do with cities with county rights. Once again, the participation in the elections to the European Parliament was lower, so fewer voters appeared than in the municipal elections. In the case of cities with county rights, the opposition lost 47 thousand voters compared to the elections to the European Parliament, and Fidesz won 5,000 voters. This means that not only did the government parties perform better in the case of county-righted cities, but we were also able to increase the number of voters to pieces, and the opposition lost 47,000 voters. In addition to the urban worlds of capital and county rights, the 6 million 200 thousand people living in rural Hungary expressed their opinion as follows: compared to the elections to the European Parliament, Fidesz received more votes by 226 thousand, the opposition by 48 thousand, which means that the increase on the side of the governing parties was nearly five times the opposition. So, overall, if we look at the results of the election, Fidesz received more than the opposition in the spring of 2019 by 128 thousand votes, and now 432,000 votes. [[A statement from the opposition.]] So we have increased the number of voters who support us, and in its proportions we should say that 51.9 percent of those who came to the European Parliament elections supported the governing parties, now 53.3% of them in the municipal elections. We would like to thank the voters who supported us for trusting us and expressing overall that there are more people on our side than in the spring and proportions of 2019. Mr. President. Dear House, Undoubtedly, the phenomenon that surprised us is that Hungarian politics has evolved without hesitation, the Arrowmen have joined forces with extremist liberals and communists. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] He's had major partial victories. To add, it is also obvious that the strength of this cooperation is money and power. We very much hope that the cities that they lead will not be the ones who are going to suffer the consequences of this, but that we can work together for Hungary's development, for Hungary's construction, because Hungary remains our first. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-54	Csaba Dömötör responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-10-21-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, much has happened since the last meeting of the House, and perhaps the municipal election has indeed given rise to the greatest public opinion. First of all, I would also like to thank all the Hungarian people who have exercised their suffrage, and higher than average participation shows that this election was considered important and their votes were cast in large numbers. We would also like to thank those who have helped with their work to make the election go smoothly. Congratulations to all elected mayors and representatives, we wish you a lot of strength and good work to promote the cause of your cities and their settlements. We also congratulate the leaders elected in the Fidesz colours, they are most of them, which is also due to the fact that many of them have proven themselves in recent years and have achieved significant results. If we approach it from raw figures, we can say that 1.8 million people voted nationwide for Fidesz-KDNP candidates and 1.36 million for opposition candidates. In the majority of county-righted cities, in the majority of settlements with a population of more than 5,000 inhabitants and in all county general assemblies, the governing parties won. 600, or 600 settlements elected mayor of Fidesz, are a very serious result. We also know that in many cities no Fidesz mayor or non-fidesz candidate has triumphed. In this connection, I would also like to make it clear that the government is working with all the cities and all the elected city leaders who benefit from the country and its own city, everyone who uses the elected office for building work and not for perpetuated domestic political warfare can count on the government's support. As far as Budapest is concerned, István Tarlós gives the mayor's baton to Gergely Christmas after nine years; I think the lesson is given up. During the nine-year-old mayorship of István Tarlós, he has reached the level of Budapest, he has stood up among the most dynamically developing world cities, and there is every hope of going on this path. The long-term investments have been closed, like metro 4 on the left, and István Tarlós has completed the metro construction and the renovation of metro 3 has also begun. [[15.30]] There's already a bicycle rental system, and the fleet at the BKV is constantly renewed, and I could continue the line. Plenty of public spaces have been renewed. Széll Kálmán tér, Kossuth tér and Ferenciek tér also received a new image. In previous years, these were only on left-wing flyers, but it didn't turn out to be anything. During the time of István Tarlós, these were accomplished. The renewal of community spaces has also been given great emphasis. The buildings of the University of Public Service are standing, the Erkel Theatre, the Liszt Academy is renewed, and the Opera is renewed. The Liget Budapest investment is also going well. I would just like to express my hope that the campaign has passed, and Gergely Christmas and his party and the entire left will not go wrong with this investment, because it will be the jewel of Budapest when it is realized. It is just as important that a decision has been made on the construction of the new super-hospital in Budapest. Future cooperation between the government and the capital will also play an important role in this. As far as the period ahead and the results of the past months are concerned, the Hungarian economy continues to perform well. As far as the exact figures are concerned, the economy has expanded by 5.2 percent, which is one of the best results in the European Union, and this is an opportunity for many things, such as continuing the family protection action. From July 1st you can apply for baby shower support. Already 60,000 families have applied for some support for the family protection operation, the baby shower support has been applied for by 40,000 people, the car shopping allowance will be paid by 16,000 people, the village CSOK will also be applied from 1 July, since then it will be possible to apply and nearly 1500 applications have been submitted. The CSOK has been requested by 114,000 families, and this is also an important achievement. We'd like to go this way. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] And to mention one more important area, the government also decided to provide a pension premium of HUF 20,000 and a pension supplement of HUF 11,000 to pensioners, with which in parallel the oldest age group received a HUF 9,000 return. As far as the period ahead is concerned, the government's target function remains unchanged: we want more jobs, higher wages, greater support for families and security. The Government will present proposals for these purposes to the House. We call for the support of our fellow Members. We wish you good work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-21-56	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. My fellow Members, please take your seats. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2019-10-21-57	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: István Apáti, independent; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward to address the agenda: Tamás Harangozó, MSZP; Olivio Kocsis-Cake, Dialogue; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Gergely Arató, DK; János Latorcai, KDNP; László Böröcz, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik. On Thursday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik.
u2019-10-21-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the appointment of the new Vice-President of the National Bank of Hungary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Mr. Messenger!
u2019-10-21-59	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Articles 9 (four) (c) and 41 (three) of the Fundamental Law and CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. Article 11 On the proposal of the Prime Minister, Dr. Csaba Kandrács was appointed Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank for a period of six years with effect from 2 October 2019. Budapest, 1 October 2019 Sincerely: President János Áder
u2019-10-21-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate Mr Csaba Kandrács and wish him good luck with his work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that my fellow Members have received the work schedule for the autumn 2019 session, as defined by the House Committee, and have also received it on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the autumn session, which interested parties have been able to learn on the IT network. The State Audit Office has presented its recommendation to this effect, which can also be accessed through the IT network. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from the House Rule for the autumn session of the Parliament in 2019. At last week's meeting of the House Committee, all political groups agreed that, in line with previous practice, Parliament should adopt non-scheduled speeches and a derogation from house rules in the interpellation period. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/7722. You can get to know him on the website. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to explain this.
u2019-10-21-61	Dear Parliament, At the autumn session of 2019 the Parliament shall adopt its agenda for several weeks in accordance with the House Rule 18. In the course of the hearing of extraordinary cases within the meaning of paragraph 5 of this Article, it shall depart from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Resolution so that, on behalf of the political group, its leader or the member of the political group invited by it, the HSZ 18. In addition to the possibility provided for in paragraph 5 of Section 5 of this Article, the speaker shall be entitled to speak outside the agenda on the other day of the second week of the meeting set out in the agenda, with the intention to speak to the group leader to notify the Speaker in writing not later than one hour before the opening of the first day of the second week.2. During the discussion of the questions, it shall depart from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Decision in such a way that, at the meeting on the second week of the sitting, the issue containing the item on the agenda of the questions may be discussed only, which has been submitted at 9.30 a.m. on the working day preceding the sitting.
u2019-10-21-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the vote. After you have taken your seats, my fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a derogation from the house rules requires a vote in favour of four fifths of the Members present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the derogation from the rule of law by 168 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, We now decide to derogate from house rules. The deviation from the house rule presented in the presidential power initiates the T/7699 of the Parliament on the publication of an agreement by way of an Exchange of Letters on the regional conference on the prevention of radicalisation leading to terrorism: regional policy responses and risk reduction. In the course of the negotiation of the series of proposals, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place today. The proposal for a derogation from house rules was made by H/7699/2. You can get to know him on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/7699/2 contributes to the departure from the house rules. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the departure from the house rule by 143 votes to 14 with 15 abstentions. [[15.40]] Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be tabled today at 5:40 p.m.; the draft bill will be consolidated, the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote will take place on today's sitting. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that, at today's meeting, T/7699 on the publication of an agreement by means of an Exchange of Letters on the regional conference on the prevention of radicalisation leading to terrorism: regional policy responses and risk reduction. The final vote shall take place after the hour of immediate questioning and response, as the last item on the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated National Assembly Committee on the activities and operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund in 2018 B/6857. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 127 votes in favour, 45 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether it would ask the designated Economic Committee to ask B/6324 on the activities of the Economic Competition Authority in 2018 and on the experience gained during the application of the Competition Act in the field of the enforcement of the purity and freedom of competition. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 126 votes in favour, 46 against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on the members of the Committee. S/7741 put forward by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2019-10-21-63	Dear Parliament, In Section 1, 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, the election of officials and members of Parliament Parliamentary resolution hereinafter referred to as "OGY Resolution 1' shall be amended as follows: Parliament shall elect Mr László Böröcz, Mr Fidesz instead of Mr Ákos Kara, Mr Fidesz; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs Márton Gyöngyösi, Mr Jobbik, Dr. György László Lu-kács, Jobbik, member of the Committee. Point 2 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Ferenc Hirt, Fidesz, to become a member of the Committee. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Budapest, 21 October 2019
u2019-10-21-64	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/7741. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal with 175 unanimous votes in favour. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. Mr László Varju, Democratic Coalition, Parliamentary Representative, has received a motion to waive his immunity from KSB.3175/2019/3-I. I'm on a case against the Attorney General. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/7758. Mr László Varju presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to Mr János Hargitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to justify the committee's proposal orally, within a five-minute time frame. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2019-10-21-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Attorney General has subpoenaed the suspension of the immunity of Congressman László Varju for a crime against the electoral order. Based on the findings of the investigation, the facts established the following. On the 12th of February 2018 in Budapest a IV. met in a district café as candidates for two parliamentary representatives. One is László Varju, candidate of the Democratic Coalition, the other is Imre Horváth, former MSZP representative, then as an independent candidate. During the meeting, Congressman László Varju convinced Imre Horváth that their side of the elections would only be successful if a candidate against the Fidesz candidate was launched. Therefore, he continued the discussion in such a way that, as far as possible, Imre Horváth should withdraw from the elections, so he attempted to influence the Member's right to vote as a candidate. Imre Horváth refused. During the discussion, it was mentioned that Mr László Varju would also be willing to reimburse Imre Horváth. Based on all of this, the transcript describes this act, namely the Btk. 350. It describes it as an act contrary to paragraph 1 (e), so it refers to a crime against the order of electoral proceedings. What is it that supports probable cause? It can be seen from the transcript that it is the complaint itself, certain data collections, and the recording produced during the meeting, which was obtained by the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office by means of a request for information. Today, the immunity committee discussed this matter, on which MEP László Varju was present. He explained to the committee that he had committed no crime. The immunity committee has made its decision by a majority vote. Seeing that this is a public case, the committee proposes to the Parliament to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary MP László Varju on the matter in question. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr László Varju if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak.
u2019-10-21-67	No, thank you. [[György Balla: In the presence of his lawyer...]]
u2019-10-21-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, So Mr László Varju did not want to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position to suspend the immunity of the congressman from the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend László Varju's immunity. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament suspended the immunity of Parliamentary MEP László Varju with 146 votes in favour, 29 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I am pleased to inform you that at the World Championship of Intersteno, stenographers, typists and text editors held in Sardinia in July, the stenographers of the Office of the National Assembly again achieved outstanding results. [[A big round of applause.]] Vicai got Erika's fourth World Championship title. [[A big round of applause. Erika Vicai, standing up, thank you for your applause.]] Árvayné Dani Judit second [[A big round of applause.]] Madarász Mary's third [[A big round of applause. Mary Madaras, standing up, thank you for your applause.]] [[A big round of applause.]] , Madarasz Mary third (Great applause. Mary Madaras, standing up, thank you for your applause. ), Éva Horváth Szilvia reached fifth place. (Great applause.) On behalf of the Parliament and myself, I congratulate you all and wish you further success in your work. Dear Parliament, Now, at 3:50 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Tibor Nunkovics, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: It's an address. Congressman Tibor Nunkovics has the floor.
u2019-10-21-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, They say that on average, people remember a political event that was negative for them for three weeks. This rule in the case of the slave law, I think that we can safely view it as null and void, because not only a year ago, but also today, it is precisely because it has now reached the first 15 to 20 thousand employees whose employers are trying to convince them to sign the statement on this. [[15.50]] According to the Vasas Trade Union, many would rather resign, but the majority, fearing the loss of their jobs and the possible withdrawal of various bonuses and mobile wages, would rather sign this statement, even knowing that they will spend less time with their families, will suffer even more stress and will be subjected to greater physical strain. However, a lot of people are unfortunately signing this statement, although these three things together may pose serious health risks, and given the nature of the health system in Hungary, I think, as a former factory worker, that none of the workers want to work under such conditions in Hungary today, it is no accident that so many people leave this country. It is clear, therefore, that Lajos Kósa's pathetic communication at that time was in fact completely contrary to reality, because here it was all about the fact that they were actually trying to solve the labour shortage, by increasing the working time frame, and also by raising all kinds of Eastern labour, especially Ukrainians, and here I am thinking not of Transcarpathian Hungarians, but specifically of Ukrainian workers, they and their fellows, instead of finally understanding the need for a wage increase, a union. But of course, you see other solutions, because we can see that there are, for example, Zsolt Borkai, the paprika johns who are yachting in this country, while on the other side of the balance there are honest workers who are actually working themselves to death in order to support their families and raise their children with honor. Believe me, these people don't want much. They don't want to get rich like Lőrinc Mészáros, they just want to get a decent wage for their honest work that can support their families, maybe they can pay a car, or they can pay an apartment, but don't give it to me, even once a year they can take the family on vacation. I think it's the 21st. This should not be such a wow but big dream, but it is unattainable for the majority of society. I therefore ask the honourable Secretary of State when they are finally willing to see that their economic policy and labour policy have failed and that we do not need to increase working time, and we do not need foreign workers, but we need Hungarians to be paid fairly. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-21-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Sándor Bodó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-21-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! I feel that it is a little unworthy, indeed not a little, very much, that it talks about one of the most important laws of the Hungarian economy, the law governing the economy, with such a slendrian name. But in fact, we might as well get through this, because it makes a lot more mistakes in what you said. One of the obvious points is that you are imagining a work law that can be applied everywhere from the very beginning of the small employment of all workers with the smallest details. Well, honourable Member, I stress that, in addition to the existence of the most important foundations, you should believe that there are significant differences in these companies, and it is very important, and also an international tendency to give room for employers and workers to agree on some level. This is an important thing, but I will continue to maintain it, stressing that the pillars are okay. This agreement must therefore be given place, and when we drew attention to this possibility a few months ago in relation to the Code of Work, its fellow parties reacted in a similar style as you just did. So let's see what's happened since then. In particular, there has been a significant increase in the number of companies where collective agreements have been concluded or before collective agreements have been concluded. This is an important issue, since in previous years experience has been that there have been quite minimal changes, there have been only one or two or three times a year where such contracts have been concluded, and now we can say that 20 times the agreement has already been concluded, and in 67 cases this is ongoing. This means in my reading that employers and workers take this opportunity seriously and are discussing this issue. The next one, which is also a fundamental issue, and every agreement, I think, is one of the foundations for how wages are going to develop. Well, I was shocked to hear it, and I read the reaction of the Member, of course, that wages in Hungary have not increased. With all due respect, I would ask you to talk to some employers, some employees, and ask them what has happened in the past. Look at the statistics, the data that are otherwise public, and you can clearly see that the wages in Hungary have indeed increased significantly, up to more than 10 percent a year, and in this case, employers are now aiming to make their company even more efficient so that they can pay these wages. Of course, these agreements are not out of the blue, obviously they need government measures, there are also, these are tax systems, targeted support to companies, employers, family benefits. But we also need to see that, in this situation, companies are investing heavily, and this is clearly intended to be able to produce more efficiently and pay more wages. An agreement with the social partners was concluded in 2016 and has been in effect since then, which is clearly based on the presence of employers' representatives, employees' representatives and government representatives at the time of wage setting. With the guaranteed minimum wage, the increase in the minimum wage, there was also an 8 percent wage recommendation, so it cannot be said at all that the parties could not agree on something at the negotiating table. This is, in particular, the rise in wages. And obviously the question may arise as to whether this can be seen in all income bands. Yes, it is noticeable, and in all sectors agriculture and construction, and it is also visible that unfortunately even those with a lower education can work in jobs or earn income that was more than in the previous period. The question arises as to how and how this is done internationally. Only one sentence: out of 36 countries, Hungary has achieved the third largest tax reduction compared to the rate of labour costs. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-72	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. [[16.00]]
u2019-10-21-73	Thank you for the floor. I can't accept it. The thing is, I didn't name this law that way, and we didn't name it that way, but people named it because they felt... [[Uproar, interrogation from the ruling parties.]] Is there a party in Aprayaville or something? The collective agreement is likely to be a very good way to read and read in paper form, only if someone has to sign it, it is a completely different story. And, my dear Secretary of State, I would very much like to take you to any factory in Hungary sometime, to talk to those who work there, because people don't live on statistics, you know, but people would try to make a living with money, but they can't, and that's why they're leaving this country. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. It's a rare round of applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2019-10-21-74	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 99 votes in favour, 38 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What about the recruiters? It's an address. István Hiller, Vice President, has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-10-21-75	Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, According to the current rules, from 2020 only an applicant who holds a valid B2 language examination at least at secondary level can be admitted to the Hungarian higher education institution. Although this requirement has been known since 2014, you have not been able to prepare Hungarian public education in five years, especially secondary education, so that a large number of students can learn the right quality foreign language skills and thus pass a successful language exam. All the information so far shows that from next year onwards, it may decrease by thousands per year. The number of higher education students in Hungary. And the clear reason for that is that they were unable to comply with their own requirements and to provide appropriate training. There is neither a debate nor a need for foreign language knowledge. For us, for whom our mother tongue is, of course, the most beautiful language, but an isolated language for the world, foreign language knowledge is particularly important in the labour market, and later it will be even more essential. However, the method that you chose, i.e. that you did not focus on training, but on regulating the requirement, has apparently failed in half a decade. What's really happening is that public education doesn't give you adequate foreign language knowledge as a result of your actions. In fact, those who can afford it buy the necessary knowledge on the market, learn a foreign language in high-quality schools for tens of thousands of forints, and pass the secondary language exam without any particular problem. But most people can't afford that. And it is unfair and it violates all the principles of equality that, while there is a single and binding requirement for all, it is easier for those who have more money to fulfil it. So it's not really the talent and the diligence in your system that counts, it's the money. And we will never accept that. With all due respect, do you see the problem that the fact that public education is not able to provide appropriate foreign language training is a problem for admissionees? Two: according to your data and information, how much can the number of higher education students in Hungary be reduced due to this provision? Finally, what do you intend to do to ensure that equality of rights is not damaged? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-76	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Schanda responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-21-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, Our goal is clear: we are developing and we want to make Hungarian higher education world-class. You are now concerned about the Hungarian higher education, the admissions students, but when they were on the government, they bled it out. [[Gergely Harvesto: Which is not true!]] In the education of Hungarian students, they saw only unnecessary costs, which they tried to shake off. [[Gergely Harvesto: Oh, my God!]] Universities were forced into unfavorable PPP schemes, driven into debt. The MSZP government wanted to pay tuition to their families [[Gergely Arató: Now let's get to the language exam. Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: What have you done?]] This was only prevented by the referendum initiated by Fidesz-KDNP. Our important task is to improve higher education, which is also of paramount importance for Hungary's competitiveness. Our aim is for the higher education system to provide modern and innovative responses to the 21st century. For the challenges of the century, it is essential for young Hungarian graduates to enter the labour market as professionals with up-to-date knowledge, who are able to cope safely in a foreign language. In 2014, the government laid down the entry requirements for higher education in a regulation. We believe that in the five years since then, students have had enough time to get their language exams. Honourable Congressman, At the same time, we are ready to consult everyone. We will listen to the opinions of student organisations, teachers and rectors. And the government will make its decision with knowledge of them. For most higher education institutions and training areas, there has also been an increase in the number and proportion of admissions in recent years who have met the mandatory language input requirements from 2020. Honourable Congressman, The government is helping to complete the language examination of higher education candidates through a number of measures. Thus, among other things, every young person under the age of 35 will receive a language exam free of charge from 1 January 2018, even if he already has one. In 2018, a total of more than 31 thousand applications for language exam support were submitted to the Hungarian Treasury. In addition, the government also allows young people from 9th and 11th grade to attend high school and vocational school to participate on a study trip abroad. It will also be possible to meet the mandatory language examination and the increased level of maturity input requirement by taking an exam. A candidate who takes a higher level exam in a foreign language becomes the holder of a document equivalent to a secondary, complex type, state-approved examination certificate if at least 60 per cent have been completed. Honourable Congressman, Hungary's economic performance enables the development of higher education. The total sectoral expenditure increased by nearly one and a half times by 2019 compared to 2010, while this year 4 percent more people applied to Hungarian higher education. We would like to make our universities even stronger and more competitive so that Hungarian young people can learn in better and more modern educational and infrastructure conditions. The self-confident language skills of students are also essential for internationalization of higher education, the current government is the first to provide free language exams and foreign study trips, student loans for language learning for young Hungarians. With all due respect, I ask you to accept my answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-78	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Mr. Vice President if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-79	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the historical overview. I have to reassure you, I'm even better at this than you. I'll tell you what education was like in our time: better, better and fairer. It's the truth. Compared to this, you are the zeroth grade, which issued 10,000 students a year from 2009, 10,000 students who had a secondary or tertiary language exam for their graduation, in 2011 the system was shattered. He's been beaten up! Instead, they couldn't do anything in eight years. At the moment there are 93 415 stuck degrees in higher education, Mr. Secretary of State; 93 415 young Hungarians who have completed their studies, passed their exams and do not receive their degrees. That's double what they took over. I don't accept the answer.
u2019-10-21-80	Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the response to the interpellation. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 40 against and 1 abstention. [[16.10]] Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Zsolt Borkai is still under protection or are you going to start investigating? It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2019-10-21-81	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Zsolt Borkai's scandal not only drew attention to the depravity and hypocrisy of the mayor of Győr, but also highlighted how the criminal organization Fidesz, captured by state power, works. As a result of the release of a sex tape, the public noticed the well-known programmes that could not have been created without Borkai's input requirements. Even more regrettable, however, is that even this could not get the police's attention. Zoltán Rákosfalvy, a lawyer with contractual relations with the municipality of Győr, bought 21 hectares of plowing from individuals, which was then converted into an industrial area by the municipality of Borkai, and Rákosfalvy, hiding behind an offshore company, sold to Audi, who wanted to expand, so the profits of at least 5 billion HUF were not made in the town's cash register. Rákosfalvy acquired three of the 11 casinos in the country, the Győrite, the Pécsi, the Miskolc, and suspected Borkai's influence. In 2017 the Student Olympia 2017 Kft. announced the invitation for the European Youth Olympic Festival in Győr. it was awarded, even though its bid was almost four times the bid declared invalid by the other tenderer. One member of the consortium was Ervin Szabó, a well-known restaurant in Győr. It is hardly a coincidence that the company owned by Rákosfalvy for years, but which does not generate any HUF revenue, employs Borkai's son as managing director for a million forints a month, but Szabó gave Borkai's daughter a good-looking restaurant, which is still run by the restaurant according to all signs, but the profits belong to the Borkai family. Foam on the cake that two of the luxurious girls at the guests' disposal received 3 million EU funding from their business. Mr. Secretary. In the above cases, which were discussed in detail by the press at the time, has an investigation been initiated? If so, with what result? If not, can it be expected that now that they are at the centre of attention, and so will you, they will finally launch the investigation? If not, why not? Thank you very much for your reply.
u2019-10-21-82	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-21-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In Hungary, no one is above the law. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that the protection you have referred to has not belonged to anyone in Hungary who is committing a criminal offence. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Those are hard words! An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Flórian Farkas!]] I assure you that any police officer in criminal matters has a legal obligation to act objectively, impartially. The Hungarian police act decisively against everyone who violates the law. An investigation is under way in relation to the cases listed in the interpellation. In material cases, the investigation shall cover the examination and determination of the circumstances which may be relevant for the determination of the facts and the criminal classification of the act. I would also like to draw the attention of the honourable Member and of the House that since 1990 the Hungarian Parliament has remained unbroken in the practice that the respondents will not comment on the details of the case in the ongoing criminal case. We, too, maintain this practice in order to avoid prejudicing and possibly giving an unsubstantiated opinion on the ongoing procedures. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That video speaks for itself!]] In local self-government, the concept of autonomy is emphasized. The municipality may, within the framework of the laws, consider and decide on its own, honourable Member, in the case of municipal matters falling within its competence and competence. The Ministry of Interior does not have the right of judicial supervision and cannot review decisions taken by any body of the municipality. The voters of Győr expressed their views during the municipal elections in a democracy based on competition between parties, in the light of the events. Hungary is a democratic rule of law and, in the efficient functioning of democracy, it is essential that the right of local voters to self-government prevail. Please accept my reply, Congressman. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-84	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-85	Mr. Secretary. According to previous practice, you have provided protection to the person involved in any such investigation. I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, it's clear from this that Zsolt Borkai is under your protection. However, I am pleased that, if I understand correctly, there is a police investigation in progress, and given the above, it can already be suspected that everything we have seen is not just a video recording, but a reality. Nevertheless, I claim that as a result of all this, we can see that there are no two Fidesz; there is one Fidesz, and you represent this morality. It is therefore a risk that this investigation entails. Therefore, instead of being ashamed of yourself, Borkai is being held there and still not released. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Your party is still holding an unsuitable man...
u2019-10-21-86	I'm waiting for your answer, Congressman.
u2019-10-21-87	... therefore your answer is unacceptable to me.
u2019-10-21-88	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:. The government made a secret backup deal with the Russians? It's an address. Congressman László Keresztes has the floor.
u2019-10-21-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, A few days ago, the news was confirmed, which we read in the press earlier, that a conference was held on November 6, 7th at Rosatom Pécs. This surprised everyone interested in local public life, since no formal information had been received in advance to the city of Pécs. We were also informed that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was taking part in this conference, and that was definitely a fear or concern for the Pécs. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In view of the fact that we know precisely that besides Pécs, they intend to create a nuclear waste storage facility in the Bodai Claystone Formation, and we also know that the plans for uranium mining activities in the vicinity of Pécs, including those under the inhabited area, have been known for a very long time. So there is a suspicion that if such an important conference is held in Rosatom Pécs, and the Hungarian government considers it so important that even the Prime Minister is involved in this conference, the choice of venue in this respect cannot be a coincidence. I'd like to ask you some questions about that. Who exactly is the originator of this conference? Why wasn't the city's public informed about this conference in time? What is the exact purpose of this conference, and what is the reason for choosing the location in Pécs? What is the reason for the Prime Minister's participation, if it is true that the Prime Minister is taking part in this conference? And is it some kind of confession or recognition that if such an extremely important event takes place in Pécs, on which the Prime Minister participates, there is some sort of back-up deal or some kind of co-thinking against the three projects, so the issue of Paks expansion, the implementation of the high-activity nuclear waste storage unit designed for the Bodai Claystone Formation, or the question of restarting uranium mining? Thank you in advance for your reply, Minister. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Süli will answer the question. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-10-21-91	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Let's start with the answers from behind. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Well done! The president's ringing the bell.]] The Prime Minister has been invited from the point of view of politeness, he does not participate, there is no international conspiracy. You know very well what kind of authorisation procedures should be applied to a nuclear facility, including the waste storage facility, Boda and mining, so this is not the case. The name of this conference is AtomEco, and this is a conference of the kind where we want to demonstrate how renewables and electricity produced by nuclear power plants contribute to sustainable development, which is what we intend to discuss at a conference. [[16.20]] Why did we put him in Pécs? We put it in Pécs because, in connection with the construction of the power plant, we have always talked about regional development, about the area. Pécs is suitable for this, since it has the appropriate event rooms for conference tourism, the university is capable of being a suitable and worthy partner. By the way, we've included the city in the organization, because you can't have such a 400-person event in three weeks, so everyone here knew about it. By the way, that's how you got it from the press: that's where you're supposed to hear it or invite it. By the way, your colleagues are also registered, Mr.Tamás Mellár is sitting here, and you are also the candidate for mayor in Pécs, József Kóbor, who is also registered with green organisations and international organisations, who will participate in the conference. Again, why Pécs. So if you are a local patriot, more than 400 people will attend, we think that the loading of accommodations and the consumption of guest nights there will also contribute to giving Pécs a proper presentation. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] I didn't take the comment into account now. So what I can tell you is that we welcome you, too. From the fact that it is not registered, we welcome it and reflect together on the fact that the Hungarian government has chosen the right path for climate objectives in Hungary. The examples you mention about Germany, we know that they result in a triple price. The cost of electricity in Germany is nearly 100 forints, and German power plants emit 40 per cent of CO2 per kilowatt hour. The world and Europe's largest users of black coal are the Germans, they use 222 million tonnes of black coal, the next three European countries do not consume that much coal and four lignite mines have been opened in recent years. So the way you propose to the Hungarian government to close the power plant cannot be achieved, because we clearly say that the climate objectives can only be achieved if Hungary builds these two blocks, and we are talking about an open, open, registerable conference for the opposition, university students and anyone, which is the first Rosatom conference to be held not only at home, but also in Europe. So I think that there is nothing evil about this matter, but that you should come and take part in this debate. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-92	I would like to thank Minister for his reply to the interpellation. I'm asking the congressman if he'll accept the Minister's answer.
u2019-10-21-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I cannot accept the answer, mainly because you may have tried to answer a number of questions, Minister, but you have not answered the most important question of whether there is a kind of background agreement here between the Paks project, the nuclear cemetery and the uranium mine. In one respect, it is certainly appropriate to choose Pécs to talk about this in relation to nuclear technology, the use of nuclear energy, sustainability and environmental protection, since the brutal destruction of the former uranium mining activity is well known to the Pécs and the people of Pécs. We know exactly that so far 30 billion forints have been spent on recultivation, and we know that this is a task that will never end. So we know at what level the use of nuclear energy is brutally environmentally destructive. And perhaps the Minister knows best how complicated and endless it is to authorise a nuclear power plant, because in July at his ministerial hearing he said that he really has no idea when the Russians will be able to deliver the right plans and when the certain authorisation procedure that should have been completed could be launched. I can't accept your answer.
u2019-10-21-94	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 106 votes in favour, 33 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Why does the government support a war against a national minority, to which Christian civilian families are also victims? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2019-10-21-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As is known, the Turkish army entered Syria and basically waged a war against the Kurds living there. More and more dead, the Kurds protest because they think there's an ethnic cleansing going on. Since then, a Kurdish politician has been dragged out of her car, shot, brutally tortured by soldiers of Turkish-friendly militia. There have been reports of civilian deaths. There are many Christian families among the victims. The European Union has called on Turkey to halt unilateral military action. At the same time, Minister for Foreign Affairs acknowledged that the EU condemning declaration had been blocked. At an international event the other day, Erdoğan thanked Hungary for its stand in favour of Turkey, so to speak. The government therefore openly endorses Turkey's ethnic cleansing war against Syrian Kurds, the fact that hundreds of thousands or even millions of people are being driven away by the Turks from their homes in another country to replace them with other ethnic populations, all for the sake of a violent change in ethnic relations in Kurdish areas. The Kurds have so far been heard by the world because in 2014, as a savior of European civilization, they were able to stop and repel the death cult called the Islamic State as one ethnic group in the region. In addition, in patriarchal conditions and in medium, this people declared emancipation in a unique way. Instead of honoring their heroic stand, we'll watch them be slaughtered. It is terrible what happens to the Kurds, and it is amazing that the Hungarian government gives its name and supports it for this despicableness. I would therefore like to ask Mr Minister, more precisely the Secretary of State, the following question. Hungary, whose three million ethnic minorities live outside its borders, how do you think you can stand by an armed ethnic cleansing? Secondly, why does the Hungarian government support a government that bombs Christians? How do Christians feel about protecting them? I look forward to your reply.
u2019-10-21-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-21-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In answer to the question, which already reflects malice and bias in its title, I would like to make it clear that the Government of Hungary does not support any war against a national minority, nor does it support the war against Christian communities. This operation is not directed against the Kurdish people. I would like to remind Mr President that in the two thousand years Turkey has made a significant extension to the Kurdish minority, which the European Union has recognised, and Ankara also has excellent relations with the Kurdish regional government of Iraq, whose leaders are regularly consulted, so we cannot talk about curdishness. This operation is directed against an organisation, the Marxist Workers' Party of Kurdistan, which has been fighting armed forces since 1984, and acts of terrorism against Turks and Kurds, which has been officially listed by the European Union as terrorist organisations. There are now 40,000 dead in this conflict. So from a security point of view, I think it is understandable that Turkey wants to protect simple Turkish people from the threat of terrorism. So now it's a military opportunity. Honourable Congressman, Hungary's foreign policy is based on mutual respect, and as we expect another country to make a responsible decision on the security of our nation, we also give the same respect to other countries. According to our information, the Turkish army was most cautious in carrying out this operation. [[Zsolt Gréczy: All the other Member States say the opposite of what you say!]] And as for the fate of Christians in the region, we know the statements of American organizations that the Turkish army's intervention puts Christians in danger in the region. [[Gergely Harvesto:...are you also protecting child killers? Shame on you.]] [[16.30]] But let us also recall opinions formulated by those who live there and do not try to interpret the situation from afar. The Syrian World Council of Aramaic Christians called on the international press in a declaration not to give room to misleading news, while condemning the religious repression of Marxist Kurdish militias. Similarly, the Iraqi Christian Federation also supported security operations and, I quote, condemned Marxist terrorists' repressive practices. The Armenian Patriarch of Constantinople also supported the Turkish army's counter-terrorism operations in Syria. Honourable Congressman, You seem to want to be more pope than the pope, and you want to be smarter than the local Christians. Please give them the honor to form their own opinions on their own destiny. Turkey is an important NATO ally, the country also makes a significant contribution to our security through its counter-terrorist action. It plays a significant role in the reception and care of refugees, with which it is also in the interests of Europe. And, as the Prime Minister said today, if Turkey opened its doors to Syrian refugees and they left for Europe, then the migratory pressure we remember from 2015 would rise again, perhaps even stronger. It is therefore our proposal, as the Prime Minister said, to support Syrian refugees to settle in Syria and live in their homeland and to give them all the support they need. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Gergely Harvesto: Shameful! They were protecting murderers!]]
u2019-10-21-98	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-99	Mr. Secretary, the situation is once again that everyone on the highway will face you. I'm just quoting a statement the other day. A German conservative politician made it clear that the Government of Hungary, the Orbán government, should be able to play in a team. He understood this, for example, when Hungary alone vetoed the united EU action. The second: even a few years ago, Viktor Orbán thought that the creation of a Kurdish state in that area would provide real security for solving the refugee issue. Now Viktor Orbán approves a war against the Kurds by Turkish and Turkish-armed Turkish-friendly militias. I would like to say to Mr Secretary that there has never been another war in the world to bring less refugees into the world. Wars usually cause a flood of refugees, and this is what will happen in the present case. And the local Kurds don't have the same opinion, Mr. Secretary, as you do. His answer was simply shameful, and I refuse to accept it.
u2019-10-21-100	Congressman, your time is up. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's response to the interpellation. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: "Do you wish the Government to continue supporting the development of settlements, and if so, how? It's an address. Mr László Salacz has the floor. [[Some of the representatives leave the meeting room.]] I would also ask my fellow Members to do so quietly before they begin to say what the Member has to say, if they leave the Chamber. Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-21-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Nine years ago, the Government of Hungary decided not to let the local governments go bankrupt and, at the same time, become unviable. Thanks to the policy of the socialist-liberal governments before 2010, the situation of the Hungarian authorities has deteriorated dramatically, their operation is impossible, and, in fact, their resources have not provided sufficient collateral to carry out their most basic tasks. The situation became unsustainable by 2010, when the debts of the municipalities exceeded HUF 1247 billion. It was then that the government, which is still in office, decided that the situation should be stopped and that the local governments that were close to bankruptcy should be saved. Thanks to the government's consolidation programme, between 2011 and 2014, 2082 municipalities received almost HUF 1370 billion in debt. With this, the destruction of ruins left behind by Balliberal governments has been successfully completed. It was an important step that, following the debt settlement, the government decided to grant aid to municipalities which did not take credit and did not exceed the normative framework provided to them. Following pressure on responsible farming, billions have flown through the operational programme for territorial and urban development to the unprecedented development of settlements. Today, it is worth highlighting the significant support provided by the modern cities and the Hungarian village programme. The Hungarian government is committed not only to improving the quality of life and the number of people living in large cities, but also to increasing the number of people living in smaller settlements, which it intends to continue effectively in cooperation with local city leaders. In view of the above, I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State whether the Government intends to continue to support the development of settlements and, if so, how. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Orbán responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-21-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to congratulate every Sunday's elected municipal manager and local representative. I have a lucky job, because I can answer your question briefly. You asked us if the government wanted to continue supporting urban development. I can tell you I can. Our goal is to cooperate and cooperate with all local leaders who wish to work for their settlement. This has been the case in the last nine years, and the Hungarian settlements, from the smallest to the largest settlements, have developed most in these nine years, thanks to exactly what you mentioned. In fact, the government prior to 2010 has put the settlements, the smallest, the central settlements and Budapest into a debt trap, as it has imposed tasks on the settlements to which it has not provided adequate funding. Therefore, settlements which wanted to meet their obligations under the law were forced to borrow, and in this debt trap the possibilities of development and construction were completely closed not only for operation but also for progress. We wanted to put an end to this system after 2010, and to all settlements, regardless of their colorful political leadership, to ensure a tabula rasa, a fresh start with a clean slate. This was done by taking over municipal debt and rethinking municipal and administrative tasks and powers, and by ensuring adequate funding for all municipal tasks within these frameworks. After that, when the country's economic capacity made this possible, we launched an available development programme for each type of settlement. You referred to your question, in your interpellation, the "Modern Cities" program, which was created by the government in cooperation with the 23 county-righted cities. Here I would stress the word "cooperation" several times, because there has not been a settlement development programme in Hungary, when the Prime Minister of Hungary at any time would have asked the city leaders what the settlements needed, and the list they presented to the government was always supported by the government. This means 23 cities with county rights, 269 projects worth more than HUF 3900 billion; road development, industrial parks, sports development, cultural, educational programmes, tourism development. A total of HUF 1500 billion has been spent to date, but the program will continue. The Hungarian village program is also built with such logic, only with settlements below 5 thousand people. We have spent 150 billion on this, on the one hand it is a HUF 75 billion tenderable source, and on the other hand HUF 25 billion is the village CSOK and HUF 50 billion is the programme element for the development of the rural road network. [[16.40]] Our goal is that this will be really helpful if we can give at least the same amount of resources each year to the smallest settlements. In the case of Budapest, the figures are similar, the government freed Budapest from HUF 217 billion of government debt, and thousands of billions of HUF were developed. We are ready to continue, and we are looking for partners in the current elected city leaders. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-104	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-105	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. In my smaller region, Bács-Kiskun county, the county government had about HUF 70 billion at its disposal, thanks to the European Union and the Hungarian government, to be allocated to the various development resources of the local development operational programme, commonly known as the TOP, for various developments. The municipalities applied for these funds in conjunction with the county government, thus resulting in the improvement of the infrastructure of our towns and villages. The centre of the county, Kecskemét, has become one of Hungary's most dynamically developing industrialized cities, thanks to the programme of the modern cities. We are waiting for resources with the population and the leaders of the settlements, and we promise that they will continue to be used with such efficiency as they did in the period behind us. I respectfully accept the State Secretary's answer to the future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: "Damned to stupidity." Or integration with question marks. It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2019-10-21-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Internet was visited by a shocking video at the beginning of October. And now I'm not talking about the NER on the Adriatic yacht ride with prostitutes, I mean, the very civil and very Christian illusion of a young entrepreneur with EU support from young women in Black Pakó's catchy music. No, on this one-and-a-half-million-dollar viewing recording, which also shows group activity, a teacher is threatened, abused and pushed in the middle school of the Budapest Mechanical Training Centre in Pesterzsébet. The educator who teaches welding theory at another age, in another place, would certainly have turned down a makarenko neck soup for the wild, stone-aged foreman, babbling, cheekless kids, so that the wall would give the other, and neither the school nor the parents would have made a scandal of it. But obviously violence is not the solution, and I would like to stress that. Sadly, however, the times passed when István Nagyatádi Szabó, who had returned to his native village in South Somogy, called his former elementary school teacher "Master" through his diligence, talent and brain. It's fear that's the way it is now. Indeed, in schools of peripheral areas falling into the vortex of social collapse, many educators may be terrified of the revenge of parents who are not an animal and who do not respect anything, but who do not know their responsibilities, if they dare to talk about the pranks of young children who are condemned to segregation and stupidity by primitive patterns of behaviour from home. And in many cases you cannot count on any help, because sometimes the head of the school district or vocational training centre, who is a political commissar, is only that everything is very beautiful on paper, everything is very good, and, of course, the superiors, Mr. Secretary of State, you should be satisfied with everything, and not be exposed to such shameful footage, because then there will be a veil off the Patymkin village. It turns out that the transformation of national vocational training has been a major failure for years. It turns out that this bankruptcy has deeper causes, because there are terrible problems in public education and social inclusion. In connection with the recent incident, three of the perpetrators were expelled from school and were arrested for gang violence. However, this is only a symptomatic treatment. True, few people will be hurt if these delinquents receive a deterrent sentence. But the real social interest would be if the problem could be dealt with at its root, and it wouldn't go that far. Of course, this would require, first of all, a financially and morally respected pedagogical and social sphere. So they rightly ask, let us ask why in the past nine years they have not done enough to make a radical change in these conditions. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-21-108	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-21-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Before I turn to government measures, let me draw the Member's attention to his double responsibility in all such matters. On the one hand, as a Member of Parliament, he has a responsibility for which legislative proposals he supports and which legislative proposals he does not support. We have adopted the new Code of Penalty, which we have tightened up in relation to violence against people with public tasks, such as teachers, that what has become more and more serial and dense before 2010 is that even students or parents have attacked teachers violently, in fact, we are blocking it. Indeed, this negative and ever-increasing process before 2010 has turned in a positive direction thanks to the tightening of the criminal code and is no longer common today. Sometimes, unfortunately, they get on the Internet, but it's not about getting on the Internet, but sometimes it happens that there's violence against teachers in school, but we wanted to take the legal path. You have not supported this amendment of the law, the new Criminal Code. So what you're saying is that those right-wingers who were sitting here in Parliament in 2012 and didn't support the bill that tightened up the crime against people on public duty made a mistake? 'Cause then tell me this. The other is a personal example, honourable Member. You know, if even students at this school watch the news, say, on December 12th or earlier, and they see that MPs are concerned about not letting the Speaker of Parliament open the session by force to the pro-government representatives. [[Uproar, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Either they take the pulpit in the vote on the land law, what you did... one of their greatest pride is that when the land law was voted, they took the pulpit forcibly, or on December 12, they also tried by force and physical violence to prevent Parliament from doing the work of the legislator. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Not to mention what kind of inscriptions you continue to tolerate and even smile and nod in approval today. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including Hadházy, not us.]] You set such an example here in Parliament. And you're upset that what you do is done by students in classrooms. You did the same thing here in Parliament's building. [[Uproar, interrogations from Jobbik's ranks, including, "Let's not make jokes."]] what you're saying is scandalous when it happens in a classroom, honourable Member. [[Uproar, constant interrogations from Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] What example do you set for today's teenage students? As a former educator, when you really should pay attention to this, you do not do so, but here, when you think that beeping, drumming or physical violence should be used, you will do so calmly, honourable Member. Today, too, we can all be ashamed of the lack of courage in opposition representatives to say to Congressman Hadházy that this is a lot. This style can no longer be allowed in any parliament, including in the Hungarian Parliament, but you, whether verbally or physically, are aggressive and unstyled, you, honourable Member, can tolerate it here. Therefore, neither in your vote nor in your example did you oppose this unfortunate process, honourable Member, but precisely to encourage and support these, because, indeed, as a Member of Parliament, you have a responsibility to set an example in this country. Not to mention that if the liberals weren't tactically supportive of you, they'd be outraged by what kind of neck soup could solve problems, but they're taking tactical advantage of your voting base right now. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Well, therefore, honourable Member, we have also adopted our national crime prevention strategy, and we have started different trainings for teachers and schools, either in primary or in secondary schools, so that we can prevent such situations. In the last academic year, in 105 municipalities, 252 secondary education institutions [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] a total of 4738 students in 114 000 [[The President shall re-notify the expiry of the time. Crying out of Jobbik's ranks, including Time! That's what you should have said in the beginning.]] various further trainings prior to such cases have been carried out. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-110	Dear Parliament, I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-111	Secretary of State, your cynical and ungraded response to reality is such a gap [[Uproar and interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: He was straight and honest.]] It's like preaching about potatoes and snorting coke. [[Delight and applause in the ranks of Jobbik.]] Mr State Secretary, why didn't you deal with the terrible decline of the European Commission's Education and Training Monitor, for example, in reading, mathematics and scientific education for young Hungarians? [[16.50]] Why don't you consider, Mr. Secretary, how brutally high is the rate of early school leavers in Hungary? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not what you asked!]] Why didn't you deal and answer, my dear Secretary of State, that you ripped the home school system in half? One has been created for the elite, for you, who in many cases, say, with stolen money, can send their young children to luxury schools asking for million-dollar tuitions, and the other is for the plebs, who, by the way, you would very much like to make potato-built, stupid citizens, serfs, even if you don't like that expression. But we're not gonna let that happen. Thank you, and I won't accept it, obviously. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-21-112	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 29 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, László Földi and Lőrinc Nacsa, representatives of KDNP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What is the further development of roads and railways planned by the government? It's an address. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor.
u2019-10-21-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, the Fidesz-KDNP government has taken major economic policy decisions, prepared and implemented important strategic plans. This, linked to the sacrifices of the Hungarian people, has already resulted in the development of the economy and the expansion of the necessary road and railway. The renewal of the Hungarian transport network also means increasing passenger comfort and safety, shortening driving time and reducing environmental burdens. In the next period until 2024 the government will spend some HUF 5000 billion on the development of the road and rail network from domestic and EU sources. In the development of road transport, the aim is to easily reach the motorway network from county seats, county-righted cities or priority industrial parks. With regard to rail transport, it is important to know that Hungary's railway strategy has been completed in recent years. The implementation of this has already begun. In this development cycle, 1700 billion HUF will be used to develop the rail network in order to electrify sections, increase safety and higher service standards. The aim of the strategy is also to link the transport system of the capital and county-righted cities with railway, thus also making travel time noticeably less. Dear Secretary of State, As a KDNP representative, I can safely say that we can see the success of the policy of the past period in the fact that the Hungarian total product is constantly expanding in the economy, unemployment is falling, new jobs are being created, new investments are constantly coming to Hungary. This is, among other things, the background that makes it possible to continuously require the development of transport in our country. The good performance of the Hungarian economy is now an opportunity for everything. Hungary can implement significant strategic developments. This will also ensure long-term development in Hungary for our children and grandchildren. That is why I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: what improvements and enlargements will we have in the road and rail networks in the coming years? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-21-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Schanda responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-21-115	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, [[Gergely Harvester: Hard!]] We cannot hide the fact that Balliberal governments, like other infrastructures, have left behind an ageless and neglected network of roads and railways as a serious legacy. [[Intercoms in DK's benches.]] The development of transport networks contributes significantly to the development of the Hungarian economy, to the strengthening of the countryside and the capital, and helps to increase the standard of living of Hungarian families. Therefore, the government considers it a priority to improve the quality of transport infrastructure and transport services, which is a national interest. Honourable Congressman, Our aim is, among other things, to reach all county-righted cities with a high service-level road network, to reach national borders and to join the international motorway network. Our aim is also to ensure that a four-track section of the road is available from any part of the country within 30 minutes. To this end, the government launched the road programme in 2016, with road development of some HUF 3200 billion. Thanks to the performance of the Hungarian economy, the majority of the total budget can be guaranteed from domestic sources. The results are already visible. Among other things, at the beginning of October, we handed over the two lanes of the M2 motorway between M0 and Vác. In the last few weeks, the longest route between Tiszamürt and Kondoros was completed between the M44 motorway, creating the fast-track connection of Békéscsaba. Further construction and planning are underway. [[Gergely Harvestó: How many kilometers of highways have you built in the last eight years?]] Thus, in the future, road investments can be made for Eger, Kaposvár, Sopron, Szolnok and Zalaegerszeg, which will serve both safe and fast transport. The completed sections of the journey will be handed over continuously. [[Gergely Arató: The fifth was built!]] Honourable Congressman, We have also done a lot to improve the quality of rail transport. Here, too, we have decades to catch up on. First of all, we had to put the MÁV in order, because the Balliberal governments put the company on the brink of bankruptcy. [[Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments declared reforms, but they demolished the railway. Lines locked [[Noise in DK's ranks. Gergely Harvesto: Trains walk!]] They let the railroad run its course, putting thousands of railroad families in jeopardy. The first thing we had to do was settle the debt of MÁV, which reached HUF 300 billion before 2010. Significant investments have been made and are under way, with a total value of HUF 1700 billion. New trains are on more and more lines, refurbishing railway and railway stations is taking place. Our main goal is to ensure that the railway track between Budapest and the cities with county rights is at least 120-160 km/h for cities with more than 100 thousand inhabitants and at least 100-120 km/h for other cities with county rights. The development of the road and rail networks will make transport safer, more comfortable and faster and will open up new opportunities for businesses. The rapid expansion and modernisation of transport infrastructure will contribute to Hungary being among the five most vibrant and competitive countries in Europe by 2030. Honourable Congressman, Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-21-116	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. It's all yours.
u2019-10-21-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Cegléd representative, I am pleased to say that the construction of the M4 motorway is also progressing at a good pace, as we have now passed a 30-mile section overall over the last few weeks and months. We hope that the M4 motorway will be complete between the Cegléd node and the Anvil node by next spring, but the construction is also moving towards Szolnok in Abony and Szolnok. In connection with the expansion of the railway network several years ago, the railway station in Cegléd was fully rebuilt and trains are faster on the 100a railway line between Cegléd-Budapest, but there are quite a few mischiefs now, as the trains are not nearly 15-20 minutes late in the section between Ferihegy and the West, and many of my constituents have contacted me. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To do something about it.
u2019-10-21-118	I'm waiting for your answer, Congressman.
u2019-10-21-119	Of course, I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2019-10-21-120	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. [[Gergely Harvesto: What a pity!]] [[17.00]] Dear Parliament, Since each faction has said the interpellation in order so far, now an independent representative has the opportunity to interpellation. Sándor Székely, an independent representative, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: the most brutal local government campaign in Hungary has held people in fear with its title. Sándor Székely is the independent representative.
u2019-10-21-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am an independent Member of Parliament, but there is a civil society organisation, the Solidarity Movement, of which I am president, and this organisation has also participated in the municipal campaign. In most of the finals, we fought with the opposition parties, I mean, in an alliance with them, against you. We had the opportunity to experience the quality of the campaign throughout the country, from Szombathely to Debrecen. We got into a lot of places, not a few places, but that's not the point. The point is that, in addition to the general campaign elements that everyone used in the campaign, protests, forums, conferences, leaflets, we used them, Fidesz used something else, and you and your organisations, it was hatred and fear, not only in cities and mid-towns, but also in villages, and especially in small villages. I have experienced with my own eyes how it works in a small village or in several small villages, but now let's talk about a small village, Cserépfalu, this thousand-man settlement in Borsod, the Fidesz propaganda. The mayor and branch of the opposition, or the non-fidesz candidate forum, launched by the Fidesz nominating organisation, have left, and very systematically they have started attacking the representatives who held the forum, they have been abused in an unacceptable tone and style. Obviously, it was a premeditated act, and I lived there for an incredible half an hour. Fortunately, these MEPs, who started out, who were not so long ago yet fidesz, did not give birth to the continuation of the debate on the spot, so the attacker moved away, but only to continue the abuse in his own forum the next day. It's enough that there was someone who cried at this forum that the Fidesz mayor's candidate held. There was a man who wasn't there, but he wanted to find the mayor the next day. After the forum, they threatened the villagers with a noble simplicity that if they did not vote for the right person, they would not have jobs or make their businesses impossible. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It is no wonder that the representatives of Fidesz won in this village, Cerépfalu. But this isn't the end of the story, because the next day or the other night when the election was decided [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Time is up! What's the question?]] The mayor and his associates used cars to go to the houses of opposition representatives and yell and threaten them. And they didn't shout nice things at them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How do I put this? The amazing thing, my fellow Members, is that you are not the opposition voters. [[The president's ringing again.]] Threatened ..........................................................................................................................................
u2019-10-21-122	Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-123	[[Without sound:]] ...but their own voters...
u2019-10-21-124	Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-125	[[He will continue his speech without any tone. There's a lot of noise from the pro-government benches.]] ...I think they threatened to vote for them. So the question is... [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-10-21-126	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2019-10-21-127	[[The mike's working.]] ... what the government and Fidesz are doing to stop politicians from harassing and threatening citizens, but [[The president's gonna turn the mike off again.]] They serve them.
u2019-10-21-128	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2019-10-21-129	[[Without sound:]] And do you think there's a connection between your behavior and the behavior of the fidesz cadres at the lower level? Thank you so much for being so kind and listening. I'm waiting for an answer.
u2019-10-21-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go. [[It's a lot of noise.]] [[The notary seats are occupied by Sándor Szabó and Dr. Winner Vinnai.]]
u2019-10-21-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Indeed, on 13 October the municipal elections took place, and we really thank everyone who participated in the elections, who went to vote in the elections and decided who would manage their own settlements, who would take responsibility for the development of settlements and the operation of settlements. It is also a thank-you to those who have done the technical preparation of the election, the complexity of the election, the counting of votes, so the electoral offices, the staff of the electoral committees and the staff of the ballot counting committees, as well as the members of the ballot counting committees and the work of the people who have been delegated, party or nominating organisations. Exactly so that the election, so that every election is as clear as possible, so that every nominating organisation can feel that it can look at the election to see the cleanliness of the election, the cleanliness of the campaign, is possible to delegate candidates and observers to the electoral committees and later to the ballot counting committees. The election committee's task is to investigate anomalies and maladministration detected in the election campaign or on election day or election day, and, if this is the case, the election committee will take decisions, condemn and condemn those who act against the election rules on the basis of decisions. Such opportunities were available in all settlements, including Cerépfalu. The minutes did not show that this type of comment was made in Cserépfalun, or that, based on the knowledge of the competent police department, there was no notification of any disorder or crime in either the pre-election period or in the post-election period. Therefore, if the acts spoken by the Member had been carried out, there is a legal process of how this could have been or could have been combated, either by the election committee or by the police, the necessary announcements could have been made. But they didn't happen, and on that basis, we can't react. Once again, I thank all those who participated in this work in the ballot counting committee and in the electoral committee, in the election offices. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-132	Thank you, Secretary of State Pogács. I will ask Congressman Székely if he will accept the answer. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: one minute!]] You have a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-10-21-133	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I just talked a little bit longer. I'm trying to be very short right now. I can't accept the answer. You know, you know exactly how vulnerable people are in a small village like this, and unfortunately in the settlements that your people have led, how vulnerable people are. They're scared. Not only are they afraid to press charges, but they're already afraid to speak, and you've been doing this for the last nine years. I'm not saying thank you very much. So I don't accept the answer.
u2019-10-21-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 99 votes in favour, 32 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. Sewage sludge from abroad, but WHY? Are they turning Hungary into a cesspool in Europe? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2019-10-21-135	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In my speech before the agenda, I spoke very modestly on this matter, because I wanted the Secretary of State to say a word. And he said it! He said that anyone with a permit could bring sewage sludge to Hungary without delay from the surrounding countries. Because the fact that they're reviewing a procedure basically means that if you have a contract, as long as it's on your record, you can bring it. With all due respect, I'd like to let you know that I'm not talking in the air. Each authorisation that is currently in force is issued by this government. I have papers. It's the government! In addition, sewage sludge can be imported into Hungary today from virtually all neighbouring countries, in uncut quantities. [[17.10]] This is not just a matter of bringing sewage sludge from Croatia or Slovenia here, but of bringing it from Austria in unwound quantities, they have only stopped transport because their quota is full and they cannot bring more for this year. But I have a police document in my hand, in this police document, hold onto me, such dates are indicated, that the issue is granted on 21/04/2018, 15.11.2018, and I might add. So I stress that this is not just what the media talked about during the summer, that virtually all of Croatia's sewage sludge lands here in Hungary, and hold on to it if a family went to Croatia on holiday in the summer, the gooty came home sooner than they did about freedom, because after two or three days hundreds of trucks appeared here in Hungary. And it's not just Székesfehérvár, it's not just Tapolcafő, it's not just Colontar. Today I got a phone, I got a photo, I got a video where mud trucks with foreign registrations deliver shipments to Hungarian landfills. Please hold on tight, ladies and gentlemen: from Italy they are connected to four companies, the delivery deadlines are until 10/03/2015; from another company in Vidori Servizi Ambientali until 11/03/2015, but I can also list Verde Ambiente, which is basically processing the sewage sludge from the sewage sludge processing plant in Jesolo and Cavallino Treporti, almost all sewage sludge sludge is coming to Hungary. I'd like to ask you, why are you bringing him here? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Who's making all this fucking money, and you're letting them keep the sewage sludge coming from all over Europe? Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-136	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-10-21-137	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Before the agenda, he said and mentioned this topic in his speech entitled "Very Fantastic" about current affairs, almost literally read his interpellation. The only problem, honourable Member, is that when the government proposes a solution, they turn their backs, they do not vote for the measures, the laws, they escape responsibility, and they create tension, thereby masking their incompetence. We, the government, believe in action, not hysterical. Our task is to protect the future, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian families and the created world. Honourable Congressman, I have to say that the government's position and determination has not changed in almost an hour or two since then, so the government has decided that there is no need to import foreign sewage sludge [[Tordai Bence: Then why are you doing it?]] For more than two and a half months, the Pest County Government Office has not issued a license. [[Gergely Harvesto: Why was I published before?]] , and the review of existing authorisations is ongoing. We pay attention to the problems of Hungarian families and, if necessary, intervene and take measures. This also happened in the case of sewage sludge. It is unacceptable for anyone to think of Hungary as a waste dump or a waste disposal site in Europe. We work to ensure that the created and built environment can also be lived in Hungary for future generations. Thank you very much for your attention and kindly accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-10-21-139	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I'm not trying to scare anyone. I'm talking about the future of our children. I took this photo. [[He's showing me a cell phone.]] I filmed the trucks, I stood on the border, I walked behind them; that's 200 meters from the dump you call a dump. Please, it says here that Pope Tapolca's main water base is an external defense area. I stress, unlike you, I was there, and this distance is no more than 200 meters. Secretary of State, here's the international signal. What does it say? Each truck runs with a letter A: vehicles carrying infectious substances, such as fecals, sniffers, food waste and the rest; all trucks carry such markings in Hungary. I ask the same question: what is the upper interest that permits this in Hungary? Who's gonna make all that fucking money on it? The smallest one in the line, the smallest one in the line last year made almost 800 million traffic [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Of these, 426 were the profits and nearly 100 million were taken. It's the smallest! Then how much does the biggest one make on it? I don't accept your answer.
u2019-10-21-140	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. When will Fidesz give up the foresting in Újpest? It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2019-10-21-141	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, one of the prides of the Cabbage County of Farkasford is Újpesten, a beautiful forested area with little resemblance to such a close living environment. Along with the adjacent sand-thorn nature conservation area, about 105 hectares of forest are the popular hiking spot of local citizens, including many paths suitable for long walks and for sportsmen, and many edible mushroom species can be found in it for the delight of the nearby mushroomers. From this forest, Zsolt Újpest's former mayor, Zsolt Wintermantel, wanted to cut two months out of the forest a long time ago, and according to the board's decision, the area had already been loaned to the Arrow Association for 15 years, free of charge. What God will do for the 6 hectares to be forested in exchange, which the mayor has appointed, which is actually covered with 10-15 meters of trees, is practically a self-forested area, and so according to this scheme, reinforcement would consist of a pre-arranged area with an administrative decision to transfer it to a forested branch, meaning that the district would continue to be poorer with green land. Mr Wintermantel has not been a mayor for a week, but the danger has not passed. As in Zsolt Borkai's scandal, besides the depravity of the mayor of Győr, Fidesz and the Orbán government are also reflected in the whole operation and world vision of the world, although the archery may only be the heart of Zsolt Wintermantel, the destruction of forests and green surfaces is clearly one of the government's priorities. The Kossuth Square, Kossuth Square, József Rádor Square, Orczy Park, Etele Road, Zugló BVSC course is all in the category you do not spare. Although the mayor of Újpest Fideszes has already failed, there is no guarantee that the government will not prepare for another extermination under the authority of the municipality. So, I ask you, Secretary of State, do you agree with a possible deforestation in the Wolf Force? Is the Agricultural Ministry willing to stand up for the protection of the natural environment and climate in the case of such a plan? Would you like to open an investigation into this and finally make a decision about it? Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-10-21-142	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2019-10-21-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On 17 June, my colleague, State Secretary, answered the same oral question, but allow me to repeat the position of the Agricultural Ministry. The portfolio and the authorities under professional management do not agree with any deforestation in their responsibility for forestry, and they are struggling to ensure that not only Hungarian forestry, but all other green land management operate under the conditions of sustainability. I would just like to point out here, honourable Member, that you have just mentioned examples that you have not already mentioned in your question. [[17.20]] I would like to inform you that the Újpest Wolf forest is a forest registered in the national forest inventory and, as such, has a long-term forest plan that ensures management in the public interest. According to my information, the use of the forest area planned in the area was only authorised in principle by the forestry authority of the competent government office. The use of the forest area for other purposes, in particular in the agglomeration area in Budapest, should be subject to very strict conditions and compliance with rules. On the one hand, the use of forests for purposes other than forest management can only take place in the public interest and only exceptionally, where the public authority examines both compliance with the public interest and whether the desired investment can take place in other locations. On the other hand, the use of the forest area in the agglomeration for other purposes is subject to the implementation of the replacement forestation in areas of at least the same size, so that the forest cover of the area is not reduced. No timber may be cut out on the basis of the authorisation in principle, or the forestry authority has already indicated, at the time of issue of the authorisation in principle, that a sufficient and quality stock should be provided in exchange for the land withdrawn from forestry. In the area of replacement forestification, the level of protection of the timber stock will be higher. Among other things, this provision is a guarantee that the area of forests will not be substantially reduced. I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention, after all, to the fact that, in the neglected areas, which you have referred to in part, the majority of the timber stock, as a result of climate change, is, unfortunately, alien, spreading intensively. [[Gergely Arató: Like migrants.]] and is created from tree species that aggressively attack the domestic natural environment, such as the idol tree or the green maple. The continuously managed public park and the higher level of natural forest produced during the replacementforestation represent a step forward in addressing the problem of reducing conservation risks as much as possible. I trust my answers to your questions will address all your concerns. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-10-21-145	Mr. Secretary, at the beginning of your response, you gave me some confidence, but then you came to the end of it, and you were sure that you had given us permission to take the trees, and you wanted to cut down the trees, and that's why the fall of the Fidesz mayor in Újpesten was absolutely right, because the people prevented you from destroying the forest there. They did the same thing on Pannonia Street, on Bocskai Road, at the high tide bath, and I could tell you more. So, Mr. Secretary of State, as mayor Zsolt Borkai, who disgraced the city of Győr, may stay there [[Sándor Farkas: What does that have to do with anything?]] All he had to do was step out of Fidesz, which is why I'm saying that if there's too much scandal because of the wolf forest, then at least you'll get out of this party and you'll get away with it. I think that this answer is not acceptable, because you want to keep cutting wood. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-10-21-146	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether they will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance:. The critical points of the pension increase and pension premium. It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2019-10-21-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The government has consciously under-planned inflation again next year. According to the Hungarian National Bank's forecast, the increase in consumer prices will be 3.1 percent in 2020, while the government expects only 2.8 percent inflation. Since the pension supplement is paid in November, this means that pensioners lend the state for almost a year and without interest. Meanwhile, the government is pretending to give a reward when referring to the November pension supplement, even though it is the law for pensioners. The correct planning of a purely price-tracking index could work properly, but it is not a fair design, and other problems also hinder the decent livelihood of pensioners. Economic growth is no longer included in pensions, so they are increasingly cut off from wages and their real value is decreasing. The effects of climate change are also making the situation worse, as extreme weather conditions are causing food prices to increase dramatically, which is particularly sensitive to pensioners, and we have not yet talked about the unfairness of the pension system. 46,000 people receive less than 50,000 forints, almost 600,000 forints of pension, while millions of pensions also appeared. Moreover, the situation could continue to deteriorate in the coming years. With an increase of 3.3 percent for the future, pensioners will no longer receive a pension premium. In order to stop the poverty of the elderly, action must be taken immediately. First of all, the ten years of unchanged minimum pensions require a significant increase of at least two and a half times, i.e. the minimum pension should be raised from HUF 28 500 to at least HUF 71 200. In order to reduce inequalities in pensioners' society, a new system of raising pensions should be developed jointly with pensioners' organisations. The government must guarantee that pensioners receive the premium even if economic growth falls below 3.5 per cent and, on the other hand, ensure that the pension premium is incorporated into pensions. Dear Secretary of State, When are you planning to raise your minimum pension? Does the Ministry plan to meet pension organisations on the subject of pension increases? Will pensioners benefit from economic growth even if it falls below 3.5 percent? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-10-21-148	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-10-21-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, I think that everyone who respects the elderly retirees is trying to make sure that when the country is really doing better, the pensioners get the same. She forgot to mention in her speech what her political allies did with regard to pensioners and the national product, when they reduced the total national product by 7 percent in one year, and when they took a monthly pension from every Hungarian pensioner in this Parliament by a roll-call vote. This has somehow been forgotten in your speech, because they are now in league with them in the elections. In recent years, we have committed to pensioners in 2010 to preserve the value of pensions, and we have not only been able to keep this commitment, despite the fact that there was a HUF 300-400 billion hole in the pension fund, which was recognised by the government that was leaving in 2010, but we have also been able to increase the value of pensions. If you add up the value of pension increases over the past period, since Fidesz-KDNP has been in government, you can see that pensions have increased by 33.3%, and if you deduct inflation from this, you will see that there has been a 10-percent increase in customer value. So you said, on the one hand, that when inflation is higher than planned, the government does not know whether it has mentioned this backwards to the pensioners. However, when it is lower than planned, because there were a number of such years when the budget counted on higher inflation than what finally happened, so the facts completely deny what you said that the government would directly plan for inflation to be lower, well, when we planned it higher, that amount remained with the pensioners, it was incorporated into their pension, they still get it as a surplus today, because we have created a system that doesn't allow pensioners to go wrong, and there is a legal guarantee now since 2010. If the inflation differential is higher, it goes retroactively, if inflation is lower, and the difference remains with pensioners. This is why it is important that the payment of the current pension premium, the monthly amount of which will be incorporated into next year's pensions, is not only a lump sum for pensioners, but the one-month pension premium will be included in everyone's pensions next year's pension calculation, so this will increase the amount of pension expected for next year as well. [[17 .30]] Those who received an average pension could receive 12,000 forints from the pension premium in 2017, 18,000 forints last year and 22,000 forints this year, and, as I said, this will be incorporated into later. Since there is a civil government in Hungary, honourable Member, there is no need for older people to fear that, because of their own bad economic policy, a government has arbitraryly withdrawn some of the benefits for pensioners, but can build on stability, predictability and security, precisely because there is now an economic policy in Hungary that is not based on austerity and withdrawal, but is finally expanding the economy, honourable Member. Your allies couldn't produce this before 2010. The Fidesz-KDNP government has been able to produce an expansion of the economy, so there is something to add to the pensioners. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And if you look at additional numbers, what additional benefits were in addition to the pension premium and pension supplement, as I mentioned earlier, the pension supplement is included in pensions, the pension premium is the one-off benefit for pensioners, well, in addition to that, we have been able to pay the pensioners a voucher of HUF 10 thousand three times, and we have also been able to pay a voucher of HUF 9 thousand that pensioners could use. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Today, pensioners' pensions are much safer, and legal guarantees guarantee that [[The president's ringing again.]] we can preserve the value of pensions in the following ways. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-10-21-151	I do not accept the answer, but I am asking the Secretary of State that I hope that we agree that pensioners should also benefit from economic growth and that, on the other hand, we should not leave the poorest pensioners on the side of the road. I would like to add to the first one the fact that what the Secretary of State said is not true. According to the European Commission's Working Group on the Ageing of Society, in 2010, pension expenditure in Hungary was 11.9 percent of GDP. This will be 9.7 per cent in 2016 and only 8.3 per cent under the Finance Act next year. If you could get the benefits of economic growth to the pensioners, [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: This is the pension premium!]] And not just if it's over 3.5 percent, then pensioners wouldn't be forced to be so dishonest. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Live under conditions. I'm sure that needs to be changed.
u2019-10-21-152	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 37 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence of Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What does the government do for poor children? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2019-10-21-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, In 1992, the UN General Assembly declared 17 October a World Day for Combating Poverty and asked Member States to report on the specific activities related to the fight against poverty on this day. I looked for what specific activities Fidesz and KDNP had been able to report, so I am sad to report nothing. For Fidesz, it doesn't understand a cheap statement; the KDNP published something, but I couldn't find it on their own website. On October 17th, they posted what Fidesz said; I would leave the analysis to someone else. However, Hungarian social researchers have prepared a report on child risk, 2014-2017, which is practically the conclusion that you have abandoned the lower half of society. They simply pursue a social policy that does not help the rise of the poor, but push them deeper into poverty. There was no change in living conditions for the lower third, the lower quarter or the lower half of Hungary due to the minimum increase in public employment wages, as prices were loose, the old-age pension minimum was not increased, the family allowance was not increased, the child was not raised, the unemployment allowance was not increased, and the latter was practically abolished. The number of people living in extreme poverty increased by 3 percent, and in particular the number of children living in these families increased. Two years ago, 125 thousand Hungarian children lived in extreme poverty. The proportion of households with children capable of living with great difficulties was 18.5 percent, this is double the EU average, the proportion of children living in very poor housing conditions has jumped from 19.7 to 27.3 percent, while the EU average is 6 percent, while the poorest 30 percent of society raises more than half of the children you give up, and 125 thousand children live in households where there was no chance to work, and you simply let these households starve to death. The net income per capita is below HUF 32,000. After that, I ask the Minister to answer the following questions: do you plan to transform the public works system and raise public work wages to the minimum wage; when will you finally increase the unemployment allowance and extend the period of entitlement; when will you increase the child, family allowance and other universal support to all; and what suggestions do you have for the government to put an end to child hunger that will continue to be a problem? Specifically, as Szabó Timea, the leader of the Dialogue Group, suggested: will they extend the free meal for weekends and holidays? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2019-10-21-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-10-21-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I had hoped that if you mentioned the World Day against Poverty here, you might go on this world day and present Eurostat's issues published on this day, which said that in a year in the European Union, I could quote the latest report of 2018 the reduction of poverty in Hungary to the greatest extent, over a year. Why did you not quote this, honourable Member, from the Eurostat analysis published on this world day? Eurostat says on the day you mentioned that we will prevent countries such as Belgium, Great Britain, Luxembourg or the Mediterranean. That's positive news, that's good news. If you start reading from the beginning, why doesn't it get to the end when there are sentences of recognition for Hungary in this? It may not be a coincidence that we can prevent those countries that are most affected by migration because the increasing risk of poverty and public security for Western European countries is precisely caused by illegal immigration, and if we want to combat poverty, then perhaps we should follow a policy of helping in the homeland rather than pushing for uncontrolled access to Europe. If you want to fight poverty, honourable Member, you should also deal with this. If you look at how the proportion of children affected by poverty, whether at risk of poverty or social exclusion, in these statements decreased, this was very high in Hungary in 2010, when your allies governed, 38.7 percent, and this decreased to 23.8 percent. This means that 312 thousand children have their chance of growing up, not in the immediate danger of poverty, but in some kind of safety of life. This is a 39 percent improvement, with more than a third of the number of children who are no longer at risk of poverty or social exclusion, honourable Member. At the same time, you can see that the consumption of Hungarian households has also increased, because there are already more in families with children, because you said that the Hungarian families will not be able to reach the various family support measures of this government; 95 percent of families can benefit from family tax relief. What do you say, honourable Member, that the government's policy favours a narrow layer? 95 percent of families can use it! On the other hand, you had proposals to amend this year's Budget Act. Tünde Szabó [[Interjection: Timea!]] Bence Tordai, then Member Kocsis-Cake Olivio joined this motion later. And what would you have cut off, Your Honour? The number of family allowances would have been cut short, the line of maternity allowance of 6.3 billion, the budget line for childcare care, the budget line for child rearing support, the budget line for starting-up support, the line of financial and in-kind child protection subsidies, and would have been redistributed for other purposes which they considered important, or would have been covered, paid, honourable Member. [[17.40]] You are speaking here against a government that raises the cost and budget of social child meals from HUF 29 billion to HUF 82 billion; which will give the textbooks free of charge to all Hungarian families in the future; which will help families with extra, CSOK, baby shower support; which will now give jobs to 700-800 thousand people more than in 2010. You are criticising this government, while your budget amendments would have taken billions and tens of billions from family support targets. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why do the children of Lőrinc Mészáros have to study for free? The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So from the poorest Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-21-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-10-21-157	Well, first of all, let's fix Mr. Secretary's mistakes and his pathetic lies. I was talking about children living in extreme poverty, where the monthly income per person is less than 60 percent of the median income. In the other question, indeed, the basic income budget simply makes smaller subsidies unnecessary, as it would cost 45 thousand forints for every child. I'll tell you, this may be one of your political failures. While the Kaczyńskis, your friends are as corrupt as they are against Europe, but they have raised the family allowance to 500 złoty, which is about the level we are proposing. So the question is, when will all benefits finally be raised to the human level. This is what the budget adjustment package of the Dialogue was about, the introduction of the basic income, which would give every family with children HUF 45,000 per child. I don't accept the answer, of course.
u2019-10-21-158	Thank you, Congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 34 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Richárd Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:.How long will Hungary be threatened by Brussels? It's an address. Congressman Richard Hörcsik has the floor.
u2019-10-21-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, After the last meeting of the Council of Ministers in Luxembourg, Minister Judit Varga said that Hungary cannot accept the draft budget of the Finnish Presidency-in-Office of the Union. When the Finns took over the leadership of the Council in July, not only we Hungarians, but a significant proportion of the EU countries asked the Presidency to increase the amount of cohesion in the seven-year EU budget proposal to be submitted. Unfortunately, since then, it has been found that they have not only ignored our requests in this respect, but have already reduced the cohesion fund. With this proposal, I believe it has been demonstrated that, as President of the Council, they are unable to be objective. They have suggested directly to us that they do not want to deal with the East-West economic faults within the EU. Indeed, Mr Secretary of State, we see that the Finns would shift a significant part of the Cohesion Fund to the integration of migrants arriving in Europe. With all due respect, what is the priority of the Finnish Presidency: instead of developing European regions and countries, as the Lisbon Treaty would aim for cohesion policy, do they now want to support immigrants from a foreign continent? I believe that, as in the case of refugee quotas, we can now see how they are trying to force an ideological-based resolution on the EU countries in addition to migration. The rule of law? Democracy? Freedom of the press and constitutionalism? Here, in Hungary, here, in Central Europe, this is a matter of honor. Today, unfortunately, this is not a legal category, but in the hands of many people in the West is a political toy. That is why we reject the use of these concepts as a kind of political weapon by Balliberal pro-immigration forces without having to abide by any objective standards. Dear Secretary of State, The new budget proposal presented by the Finns, including the reduction of the Cohesion Fund, would significantly hamper genuine European integration, while spending significant amounts on support for immigration. I ask the Secretary of State how long he can threaten Hungary and the V4 with such tools in Brussels. I believe that the proposal, in its current form, is therefore unacceptable to us. I trust that it will be renegotiated as soon as possible. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-21-160	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, to respond.
u2019-10-21-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The activities of the Juncker political committee, which is now leaving, leave a difficult legacy for the European Union. The new seven-year budget should be set up at a time when the United Kingdom is leaving the Union, there is continuous migratory pressure in Europe, and the growing challenge is to preserve and strengthen the international competitiveness of climate change and the EU economy. Hungary believes that political priorities must first be defined and then allocated the necessary resources to them. Unfortunately, even in the European Commission's initial proposal, the attempt to cut back on the budgetary needs of areas traditionally serving the Union's political and economic cohesion, cohesion and agricultural policy, on the basis of new tasks was already clear. However, the current proposals of the Finnish Presidency far outweigh this. The overall amount of the EU budget would be reduced to a level where the allocation of resources between the main areas of intervention would be envisaged in a biased and unfair manner that would rightly trigger strong indignation. It is not surprising that the majority of Member States, the European Parliament and even the European Commission, have made it clear that the current Presidency's proposal is even inadequate for discussion. It is a general requirement for the current EU Council presidencies to direct disputes between Member States as a fair mediator. Moreover, Finland has a strong connection to the concept of neutrality in the eyes of many, so we must see with some surprise and serious regret that this principle has now been dropped. In this situation, there is little hope that more progress could be made towards the establishment of a seven-year budget during the current Presidency. What is a positive element in budgetary debates is strongly supported by the view that common resources and teamwork should be proportionate to the tasks to be carried out. Even Bubba Puskás saw that the idea of "small money, big soccer" did not lead to success. Of course, we must carefully determine what to spend on. For example, it is essential to strengthen protection, improve the capacity of the midfield and the creative attacking game. This requires strengthening the team's cohesion, developing players' skills taking into account their skills and applying the same standards to expectations. In this spirit, Hungary calls for the Common Agricultural Policy and Cohesion Policy to be kept at the level of its resources and, at the most, for the necessary but fair reduction of the Brexit. We also consider it important to strengthen the protection of European citizens against migratory pressures and to develop European competitiveness and innovation. I would like to assure the Member that the Hungarian Government will continue to stand firm in the negotiations to protect national and common European interests. We do not want to give in to efforts that would weaken the chances of Member States catching up to the best performers or the viability of the European agricultural sector in a budget robe. We urge that EU funds be focused on programmes of dubious value and results aimed at halting illegal migration rather than at integrating migrants. [[17.50]] We reject the allocation of budgetary resources [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to drive a wedge between the Eastern, Southern and Western Member States of the Union and to degrade the founding treaties into a political pressure tool by circumventing the founding treaties [[The president's ringing again.]] the Union's toolbox. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-10-21-163	Dear Secretary of State, When I was at the COSAC presidential meeting in Helsinki in July, the Finnish Presidency showed great ambition in relation to the MFF. But as we are approaching the end of the year, we have to admit that what is needed here is not primarily speed, but a balanced agreement, especially in the light of the Brexit. We therefore need an agreement that takes account of Hungarian interests. We need an agreement that takes into account the share of traditional policies so far and the security of EU citizens, including Hungarian citizens. I believe that it is clear that it is in the interests of the Hungarian voters that the Hungarian government should insist on protecting our interests to the very end. In the fight, we are not alone, because we have the Visegrád Four and the Friends of the. Cohesion. We must protect Hungary! I accept your reply. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-164	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Can it be expected that the entry into force of the regulation imposing a language examination as a requirement for admission from 2020 will be postponed? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2019-10-21-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We have spoken several times here, within the walls of the House, about making the language exam mandatory for their recordings from 2020. And we have talked about this many times for a reason, because if it does come into force, if we fail to convince the government of the faulty nature of this decision, then there are thousands, if not tens of thousands, of them unjustly. I could say that the final bleeding of Hungarian higher education will begin in less than six months, since secondary language exams will be mandatory for university applications in six months. Jobbik has repeatedly expressed its position to stand up for students who want to learn and oppose this law. We were there when students and professional organizations protested at Kossuth Square. I have spoken with my fellow Members on several occasions to protect students, and Jobbik's youth department has also collected signatures on this matter. For some reason, however, the government does not want to listen to either the students, the professional organisations or our position. On several occasions, we have stressed that Jobbik agrees that inclusion in higher education requires a certain level of knowledge, which should also be reflected in language skills, but understand that it would have been essential to ensure adequate training before setting such requirements. Just one example: exactly 4,500 teachers are missing from public education, so it happens that teachers with a completely different vocational but secondary language exam teach language [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How do you know that?]] Which we consider totally unacceptable. The government has failed to fulfil this task, but students are expected to have a language exam. We know that the answer to all of this is always that this recruitment change has been announced for several years, but there is less mention that the government has not helped the public education and the state of language education in these years. Government communication always advocates high school exchange programmes and language student loans. At the same time, let us look at when these will enter into force and when they will start to announce: language exchange programmes will start from 2020, while the language examination under the admission procedure will start at this time. Language student loans have only just been put in place. So the question arises where the government has been. Why do we have to move at the last moment when we know that language learning does not happen from one minute to the next, nor is it something that can be mastered on a two-week journey abroad. The figures show how much the government has failed the young Hungarians, because if we look at the statistics of the past years, for example, most of the applicants for pedagogical and health studies do not have a language exam. So the government would exclude young people from areas where there is still a huge shortage of professionals. Dear Secretary of State, The government must, above all, provide the conditions; then we can talk about the requirements for students. That is why I am asking whether it is expected that the government will withdraw or postpone the regulation on language examination. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the Jobbik, sporadic applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2019-10-21-166	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-10-21-167	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government aims to develop a modern higher education system that responds to the challenges of the age. We are committed to this, we have concrete plans. A number of measures have already been taken for the transformation. We would like to offer competitive knowledge to those who wish to obtain a degree at Hungarian universities. We don't destroy, as you say, but build. The devastation in higher education was caused by your allies, Balliberal governments. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Request a professional response!]] Honourable Congressman, Changes in recruitment requirements that will enter into force from 2020 were published by the government already in 2014. Since then, the time has allowed those who wish to enter higher education to meet the conditions of entry. As I have already said to Vice-President Hiller today, at the same time we are ready for consultation, we will listen to the opinions of student organisations, teachers and rectors. And the government will make its decision in light of these. Honourable Congressman, The results of the extensive foreign language research conducted in 2017-18 confirmed that the material conditions for successful language learning are given in the system of Hungarian public education. Children can start learning foreign languages from an early age and work in an outstanding time frame at European level, with an average of around 924 hours of language learning in the Hungarian public education system. At the end of secondary school studies, the National Basic Training Plan provides for B1 or B2 output levels, but only higher education candidates need to achieve B2. If there is at least secondary language skills for all students certified by an advanced degree or language examination of at least 60% result, there is a new opportunity for professional language development and internationalization of Hungarian higher education. At the same time, in the absence of a language exam, diplomas are also lost, which make many young people unable to find a suitable place in their field of education. This is also the purpose of the already eligible language learning student loan, which provides support for obtaining the language examination required for a degree. Honourable Congressman, The programs you criticize are effective, and there's a lot of interest in them. Our measure to enable the first language exam to be obtained free of charge has contributed to the increase in the number of language examiners between 2017 and 2018 compared to the increase of 2-3 thousand in previous years, from 46,000 to 54 thousand in the 14-19-year-old population. Our aim is to get ready, young people who love and know the field and speak a foreign language out of the Hungarian higher education institutions. Accordingly, the current government is the first to assist students with free language exams, student loans for language learning and free foreign language learning. Thank you for your attention and for accepting my reply. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-10-21-169	Dear Secretary of State, You said the mandatory one, and I understand that this is what you have to say, but if you really thought seriously about what the government was aiming at, what the government is committed to, as we have heard from your words, you would have started thinking about the solution proposal years ago, reformed the whole language teaching and put in place a number of measures that would have helped young people to reach the secondary language examination in the public education system, and then this would not be the problem now, would not all professional organisations have asked to postpone the introduction of this. Taking advantage of this 20 seconds, if Prime Minister is already present in this Chamber, I would like to address Prime Minister and ask the Government to postpone the introduction of this measure. Postpone, don't play the future of thousands of young people, young people who deserve to go to higher education, but you won't be able to do that. Take it back as soon as possible. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Don't gamble with the lives and future of young people. I can't accept the answer. [[Applause from the Jobbik, sporadic applause from the benches of MSZP.]] [[18.00]]
u2019-10-21-170	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We're moving to immediate questioning. Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address. It is for Congressman Peter James.
u2019-10-21-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm worried about you. I'm worried about you because your irresponsible minister has repeatedly revealed that following the Ten Commandments, most serious diseases can be prevented. Now, if that's the case, you, Prime Minister, are in serious trouble, especially after you announced at the Fidesz Congress that you would introduce the 11th commandment, which is to protect the thieves. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. So, after all this time, I think you shouldn't steal. And let's move on quickly, because even the majority of the Fidesz people don't believe that you would do that, at the very least they're telling you that you're not stealing from the Gyurcsány, but you're stealing from Lászóke. Let's just say from the perspective of the country, it doesn't matter if nobody steals. Don't be a fornicator. And there's no need to over-drug an order right now, more like over-exaggerate, so the Győr people can tell you about it. Here is the commandment: "Don't lie! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's Prime Minister, so far, we bettermen have won 250 press trials against the fidesz media that you have declared to be of national strategic importance. In other words, you believe that lying is of national strategic importance. And of course, in the settlements where the public media is being watched, you have won the election, because there people are not afraid of dying from hospital infection, but are afraid that I don't know about the general public being blown up by a Taliban because it happened somewhere on the other side of the world, and that's what the TV says every hour. In the meantime, we can't take pictures of the hospitals we're in, let alone news. And, Prime Minister, if you're going to run down hospitals, the most important commandment is that you don't kill. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's Today, 24 thousand of our countrymen die each year in Hungary because they do not receive the proper hospitalization in time, let us say, instead of the ten Commandments. To put health care in order, it would take as much money as you steal every year. Prime Minister, tell me honestly who in Hungary today has more money than human life. Why is money more important to you than human life? I'm waiting for your answer. Honestly, just the truth, no paper, please. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-21-172	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2019-10-21-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for following up on what happened at the Fidesz convention. Read it again, it was a quote from Reagan. If it doesn't suit you, you'll have to turn there. As for the money spent in health care: I did a head count quickly, and I see that now we spend 724 billion forints more on health than we did in 2010. The thing is, we're spending more money than the government you're in league with. I would like to point out that while we are being criticized, we have seven hundred and a few billion forints less with poets. That doesn't bother you. Although I have heard from you a long time ago that I always have bad thoughts when Ferenc Gyurcsány shows up, there are no more; there seems to be no obstacle to their cooperation. For a long time, I have thought about where your political source is in Hungarian politics, and I have always been careful to see you as small-scale, but I must say that from now on I will call you small-scale, without any reservation, because the small-scale will know you from where your interests require you to join the Communists. Congratulations. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-174	I give the floor to the congressman for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-10-21-175	Dear Comrade Orbán, [[Rumble on the pro-government side.]] Then let's just say that with the ten orders, the most serious diseases cannot be prevented, but it would be much better for the government program not to steal, to lie, to kill, than to continue, because, you know, a nation will die. And the Hungarian man wants to live, this is exactly what the voters sent you on October 13 when 4 million people said no to your theft, the arrogance of power, threats. I'll add, I sent you a message, too, Prime Minister. I put a bag of dry noodles on your desk in Parliament a little while ago. Do you remember him? I did it to make you feel, for once in your life, what it feels like to be humiliated with such alms, but you haven't learned your lesson, so today, Prime Minister, I have brought you another gift to finally make clear to you what comes to those who humiliate their own nation. Prime Minister I wish you a good appetite for your failure. It's orange, I like it, and the country seems to like it. Please welcome him. [[Defiance, applause from the opposition side.]] My fellow Member, Szilágyi, will bring you a government programme called the Ten Commandments. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Mr.Péter Jakab will take the failure to Viktor Orbán, who will stop it, so he will put it on Matthew Kocsis's table. György Szilágyi puts the Ten Commandments on Dr. Zsolt Semjén's table. It's constant, it's loud. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-10-21-176	Dear Parliament, The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2019-10-21-177	Thank you very much. So I would like to read what the Pongrátz family has published to the Hungarian group of small figures. In the name of the Pongráz family, I call on Jobbik no longer to take the name of Gergely Pongráz, who spins in his grave for the betrayal of Jobbik. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Calm down, little fellas, calm down. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With Ferenc Gyurcsány on the steps of Parliament and at our national feast with Klára Dobrev, there is no longer a place for Peter James and his party on stage during Corvin. Go, Hungarians! [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: The Prime Minister quoted the predecessor of Novak.]]
u2019-10-21-178	Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Microsoft Scandal." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-21-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! As you know, the details of the Microsoft scandal are now factually well known. No, not because the authorities or the government would have done anything here in Hungary, but because there was an investigation in the United States that clearly concluded that, between 2013 and 15, under your government, Microsoft sold licenses and service contracts to intermediary companies that then sold them at market prices to government institutions, including the tax authorities and the police. A committee of inquiry is justified by the fact that it was later discovered not only by these bodies but also by the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office itself, which would be appropriate to investigate this situation, has been affected by the scandal. On 1 September, this committee initiative was also tabled and the entire opposition joined it. Since then, we have been waiting for the House to step on it, although it has not yet happened. Why would that be important, Prime Minister? On the one hand, because the prosecutor's office of Péter Polt in this room, as it turns out, already covered up a complaint in 2018, rejected it. Until the world press and press came through the results of the United States SEC, the Hungarian prosecutor's office took its form, and did not see any problems in this case. It should also be because the examination of the United States has established quite serious facts, including the fact that Prime Minister presented a letter stating that this e-mail came from a Hungarian Microsoft employee's machine, that he was personally in agreement with you, so the entire Hungarian government knew about this scoundrelry, this transaction. And one last thing quickly: the President of Kehi wrote to me in his reply, Prime Minister, that there is no Kehi investigation because you did not order it. So I have two questions. Will you order this Kehi investigation to recover the money, and will the Fidesz faction support us to set up a committee of inquiry? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-10-21-180	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. [[18.10]]
u2019-10-21-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The reason I'm not ordering a Kehi investigation is because there's a criminal prosecution in progress, and that's out of the law. The second point I can make is that we are acting on a committee of inquiry, as your representatives have proposed: there is no way to set up a committee of inquiry in pending criminal proceedings. It was your motion, so don't take it out on me. However, as far as the case is concerned, here is the situation: the Hungarian Government has previously and now taken the position that we would like to buy directly from all software companies. We don't need any middlemen, we don't need any third actors. The problem is, the Americans insist. So Microsoft refuses to sell its products directly to anyone, not even to the Hungarian State, only through intermediaries. It's an American problem. Therefore, the relevant abuses and regulations are also a matter for the Americans. So we don't need any third contributors, we're ready to get the software without any intermediaries if the seller is willing to do so. I'm sorry Microsoft won't do that. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-182	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2019-10-21-183	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, don't hide behind Americans' skirts, if that's the way to say it, because that deal went down, Prime Minister, under your government. The third intermediary company was not required by the United States to steal Hungarian public money, Prime Minister. The United States and its government or any of its companies did not entrust the people involved in the transaction with various, very important government mandates a few years later, rather than otherwise enjoying the hospitality of some other institution. I'm thinking about the detention process here in the first place. You know, everyone knows that the key players in this case have not only received a leaf, but also greasy state orders and greasy state positions from your government. No one asked them to steal. I asked you, Prime Minister, if it bothers you that it has been proved completely factually that that money has been stolen. If it bothers you, what will you do to get the money back? And please don't hide behind the investigation of criminal proceedings, because there are a number of circumstances in this case, political thread, which does not apply to criminal proceedings, but here, before the Hungarian Parliament. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-10-21-184	Thank you. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2019-10-21-185	I would like to reiterate: the situation is that the Hungarian government operates digital systems. Some of these can only be operated with the help of Microsoft's products. These need to be bought and updated at times. We would like to buy directly from Microsoft. Microsoft refuses to do so, so Hungary is issuing public procurements, and public procurements conducted regularly in public procurement acquires them. If there's an abuse, there's a criminal prosecution. Now the Attorney General has decided to prosecute the Americans at their request. We're looking forward to your results, too. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-186	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr. Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:, Why doesn't the prosecution do anything? It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy.
u2019-10-21-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Before I ask Mr. Attorney General, all I'd like to say is that it's strange that the Prime Minister of the party that is holding back the publicity of the agent files is communist. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Because you don't? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Everyone can take it.]] And now a request is the main... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And now the question to the Attorney General [[Ferenc Koncz: Where did you work, my friend?]] In connection with a video of a Fidesz mayor showing up, you might say, untied; it was not just about this particular video, but about a number of corruption cases. The corruption case is so old that seven years ago the Hungarian press wrote it, and nothing has happened since then. Now the Hungarian press has brought back this particular case, that Zsolt Borkai played over the land in Győr for the benefit of the Audi investments, causing serious losses to the city of Győr, billions of dollars in losses, while pocketing huge money along with his friends. Otherwise, it would be unthinkable to travel a yacht of ten million, otherwise it would be unthinkable that Zsolt Borkai's wife has several hectar estates with tennis courts, and this is obviously not the teacher's salary for the Borkai family. So my question, Mr. Attorney General, is whether Zsolt Borkai, after he stole Győr practically, is that something of this also comes to the Supreme Prosecutor's Office. Whether the procedure, which, by the way, was recognized by one of the Audi's authorities on the basis of newspaper articles and evidence, was finally launched, and he said that his country should not have recognition, but prison. After all, will the Hungarian judiciary finally take any steps to establish the criminal liability of Borkai? Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-10-21-188	Thank you. I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt.
u2019-10-21-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As a result of the events you mentioned, a number of complaints have been received from the public prosecutors' bodies in Hungary. These have been reported on a variety of topics and topics, including drug crime, property crime, sexual crime, and, among other things, the bribery of your office. These complaints were forwarded to the competent authorities by the Public Prosecutor's Office. One of these, which you mentioned in particular, remained in the prosecution's office with regard to official criminal offences, given the fact that the law provides for a prosecutor's investigation in this case. Currently, the case, the framework of the complaint, its annexes are being examined at the Győr Detective Public Prosecutor's Office and, more specifically, at the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Regional Department of Győr. As soon as the evaluation is carried out, Mr President, we will notify you of this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-190	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2019-10-21-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the one hand, I would like to ask Mr Attorney General not to look at the Elios case, where the Orbán family is directly involved, and where the EU Agency for Fraud has established a 13 billion fraud committed in a criminal organisation, and the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office has not acted on this matter. And I really don't want this investigation to sound so obtuse that according to some newspaper articles, the lawyer who's having a party with Zsolt Borkai has an apartment or a house in exactly the property you own. And it would not be good for the Hungarian public to judge your investigation in hindsight on the basis that this neighbourhood might have something to do with the fact that this investigation would eventually end without any indictment. So I look forward to the answer, and I look forward to the necessary legal action on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-10-21-192	Thank you. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Attorney General.
u2019-10-21-193	Thank you, Mr. President. I can assure you, Congressman, that the investigation will end as the facts and the laws warrant and require. As regards his other comments, OLAF could not even establish fraud in any case in a criminal organisation because it did not deal with criminal matters. He doesn't have the authority, and he doesn't have the means. At the most, you can make recommendations, which the Hungarian prosecutor's office has complied with, and OLAF itself has been pleased with. And the other thing is that I'm only a couple of minutes away from Presidents Trump and Putin, and I'm not playing quater with them, especially not with people who aren't my neighbors, because they're not even living in the same house or vacationing where I am. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-194	Thank you, Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Does the government declare the climate emergency? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2019-10-21-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I hope that you and your government will no longer dispute the fact of climate change and will no longer claim that this is a communist trick. Hungary was particularly exposed, it could be read in the newspaper quite often, Fidesz politicians said. Climate change particularly affects Hungary, a sufficient example is that today, who was able to get out on the street, felt that there was a temperature of 28 degrees. Yesterday, a century-old record broke. [[18.20]] It is no coincidence, by the way, that the Secretary-General of the United Nations called a climate summit to New York on 23 September, where he said that action was needed and not nice words. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, Pope Francis, is also talking about a climate crisis; several parliaments have recently declared the climate crisis, most recently the Austrian Parliament has undertaken to declare the climate crisis. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Extra action.]] Prime Minister, there is no need to be afraid of declaring the climate crisis, it is merely expressing the political will that the government is aware of the gravity of the problem and expresses its desire to do something about these tasks. And he doesn't just want to do it if we get money from the European Union. There are very urgent tasks: it is very important for us to join and support the more stringent objectives of the European Union; for Hungary to start preparing the Climate Law. And, Prime Minister, it is also very important that you establish the Ministry of Climate and Sustainability within the government. I would like to ask Prime Minister whether he supports the will of Hungarian young people and many Hungarian people, so that the government also expresses its political will to do something to curb climate change.
u2019-10-21-196	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2019-10-21-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you want my opinion, I can tell you that if you think climate change is a communist trick, it's not normal. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] So take a look around, please. All I can tell you is that it is important for the Government of Hungary to protect the environment, to fight climate change, because we all want clean water, cleaner air and a more bearable climate. As regards the climate crisis: I was informed here this afternoon by Congresswoman Szabó Timea that this would be introduced in the capital. That's okay, at least now we finally understand exactly what to do, so what measures to take. And for my part, I strongly support this, and I look forward to the decision of the Metropolitan Assembly to introduce the climate crisis in Budapest, to understand what measures can be taken in the capital, according to the general assembly, to reduce the climate crisis. As far as the substance is concerned, I have said it once today, but here I repeat that Hungary is doing better in terms of climate-neutral energy production than most countries in the European Union. We're in the first trimester. And we don't just have a declaration, we have a plan. The whole point of the plan is that by 2030, Hungarian energy production should be 90% carbon- and carbon-neutral. So we have a goal, and we have a plan for that. Here, of course, we have a big debate with you that we cannot put to rest, and that is that in order to achieve 90 percent climate-neutral energy, we need nuclear energy that you are opposed to. We can hold this debate, but we can't convince each other because it's been going on for years, and I don't see the positions coming. However, from a climate perspective, the Hungarian government is holding its commitment: by 2030, 90% of Hungarian energy production will be climate neutral. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-198	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give you the floor for rejoinder.
u2019-10-21-199	Prime Minister, in Germany, settlements are declaring the climate crisis a great many times. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Dr. János Fónagy: They use coal!]] So there are such tasks at municipal level, but they are also published at national level. It would be very fortunate if the government or Parliament announced the climate crisis in Hungary as well. I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that this 90 percent carbon-free electricity in 2030 is very fragile. It is based on three elements: to triple the production of solar energy; the second is the release of coal, the closure of coal mines; and the third is only the Paks. To the first, solar energy is now 0.5 per cent within the total electricity generation. It's easy to multiply the 0.5 percent ten percent, it'll only be five percent, it'll be less than 90 percent. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The other, for the closure of coal mines: that those concession tenders appear on the ITM website increasingly. [[The president's ringing again.]] which are intended for the exploration and extraction of hydrocarbon fields. So you'll be very shaky to fulfill this task.
u2019-10-21-200	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister.
u2019-10-21-201	I didn't understand everything exactly, but coal extraction and hydrocarbon extraction are at least two different things according to government documents. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I don't think they're so wrong. So I suggest we not confuse these two things. You are right and I therefore ask for your support that this objective is ambitious and that it will not be easy to achieve. You have to build Paks, it's not easy at all. Indeed, the share of solar energy needs to be significantly increased. That won't be easy either. You say your tenfold is nothing, but double it, believe me, Congresswoman, is very difficult. Therefore, I can only ask you to support the government's efforts. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-202	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2019-10-21-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If Prime Minister is only interested in the specific climate crisis, the Dialogue has a bill before the Parliament, please support this and you will see what obligations it will impose on the Hungarian Government. But that is not why I came here, but because you threatened the people of Budapest with Gergely Gulyás's mouth before the election, saying that if Gergely Christmas wins, then you and István Tarlós have agreed to grant a famous HUF 1000 billion grant, it will expire. Let us add that next year's budget includes three billion of these thousands. But let's move on, because after you won by an absolute majority, Gergely Christmas said that this thousand billion-dollar treaty would remain in force. He also said today: "We cooperate with all the mayors and the body of representatives. The agreement you made with Tarlós will be followed by letters and numbers. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. My question is, which version is the key: do you want to punish or support Budapesters? Will the contract or not be valid? Are you lying or were you lying to the people of Budapest a few weeks ago? But let's keep going. You have bled out Budapest financially. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] Your mayor has accumulated a debt of HUF 150 billion after debt consolidation, and if we do not take into account financial operations, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] today, less than 1.5 percent of the locally produced GDP is the source available to Budapest. In 2010, this was 5 percent. The same value is 7 percent in Prague, 15 percent in Vienna, 22.5 percent in Berlin. The question is, therefore, whether Budapest's funding will be restored to at least the 2010 level, and in parallel, as the voters of Budapest supported it, will be restored to the Municipality of Budapest the powers that you have taken away, the right to dispose of educational and health institutions. I look forward to your reply. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches, Iron Claps!]]
u2019-10-21-204	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2019-10-21-205	Today, I thought I had answered these questions once, but if the Member insists, I repeat. So first of all, there is a written agreement between the former Mayor and the Hungarian Government. We will follow every letter and every figure of it. It's an agreement. In the afternoon, I told you about the bloodshed: in Hungary, many towns and villages would like to be bled out as well as Budapest. While in Budapest we completed an investment of HUF 1600-1700 billion, in which rural town is it even close to its value? And there are people there, my dear fellow Member. And more than HUF 4000 billion of investment is under way in Budapest. In which city is there about that amount? So I suggest that you be careful and study the facts before throwing such serious words at me. And you don't want to do that unless you want to hurt the capital to restore what was before 2010. Before 2010, this city was indebted. [[18.30]] If you want us to return the HUF 270 billion debt that we have taken over from Budapest, if there is such an initiative in the general assembly, we will return this debt, but we have taken over HUF 270 billion of debt from Budapest, more than from other cities. Do you want this back? Please think about what you're talking about. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-206	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Congressman.
u2019-10-21-207	So let's see what we've learned. You think the Hungarian settlements would like a debt of HUF 150 billion. You believe that the Hungarian people and the people of Budapest are pleased to be able to finance their move to the Castle, so that they can finance the construction of the City Park with concrete condoms, to spend the money of the Budapest people on amazing luxury investments without asking them about it. So, on the one hand, you admitted that, a few weeks ago, when you threatened the voters of Budapest, you lied, you and your government, Gergely Gulyás, are lying, taking the lie, but obviously Mr.Orbán is speaking with the mouth of Gergely Gulyás. [[Defiance.]] So the Fidesz-KDNP government lied about the government's information and threatened the Hungarians on behalf of the government. So I'm glad you've backed out of this cowardly way, and we expect you to really follow up on everything you've promised to the people of Budapest, and we'll keep track of it, and we'll hold you accountable. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're sick! Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Sink down!]]
u2019-10-21-208	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2019-10-21-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just to avoid confusion on this side, I say to my fellow Members that if I have something to say, I will say it, so what Gergő Gulyás says is not what I said, do not consider it on this side as saying it by the President of Fidesz. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat: the Government of Hungary does not wish to make improvements in Budapest that the responsible leaders of Budapest do not want. We look forward to, and even ask, the General Assembly to make decisions individually and say that this is what we need, this is not necessary, and if they say that we do not need the Liget investment, then there will be no Liget investment, and if the Capital Assembly says that it does not want a World Athletics Championship, then there will be no World Athletics Championship and there will be no athletic stadium. And if the Metropolitan Assembly asks that there should be no European championship handball finals in Budapest and that we do not build a hall of 20,000, then we will not build, and there will be no European championship finals in Budapest. This depends on the decision of the General Assembly. We're asking you, and even if we can, to push the Metropolitan Assembly a little bit to clear it as soon as possible. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] describe what you are asking for, what you are not asking for, and what international treaties must be terminated, the government is ready for this [[The president's ringing again.]] 'Cause the new administration doesn't do some things. We take note of that, but we expect a clear, straightforward speech from you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-210	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Congressman Böröcz has the floor.
u2019-10-21-211	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, Image and audio recordings, which rhyme, have been published in the press about how some, especially a certain representative, in the municipality of the District of Kispest, feel about the gain resulting from public participation. Csaba Lackner, a local government representative, does not know any inhibitions, but openly talks about the other ways in which hundreds of millions can be made by, among other things, using his own stromes, with 60-70 percent of their salary taken down, it is very good for money. What if it is not a serious violation of the voter's trust and the purity of public life? Due to the activities of such persons, there are serious concerns about district management, in relation to their ability to ensure the legal functioning of the local public authority. It is clear from the recordings that the corruption strategy described is not unknown in the House of Socialists. Unfortunately, it seems that in the years following the change of regime, these methods have been constructed and proven to this day on the side of the Balliberals. Today, elected representatives in Hungary are not allowed to endanger the purity of local public life, the legality of the operation of local authorities and the management of the city by violating the legal framework. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask the Minister with respect how acts which violate the legal functioning of domestic municipalities can be stopped. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-212	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2019-10-21-213	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Shortly after his previous speech, I thought that my words had much more weight, and it hurts a little bit that they are moderate, but I do not want to remove the weight of the words of the socialist Members. Indeed, this is Csaba Lackner, the MSZP municipal representative, whom we soon met on the recording, but it took his own mayor two weeks to say in Hungarian that he is taking home a million and a half forints a month, while on paper, his official salary is slightly less than a quarter. He also said that he is an idiot who can't save a few hundred million forints with municipal work. We have seen here many self-conscious opposition representatives think they are smart, and in light of this, they have a whole new meaning. We can also add that the Hungarian Socialist Party and the mayor of that district have done nothing about this corruption case throughout the election campaign, and then Csaba Lackner decided to suspend his own party membership for the time being. Therefore, we must assume that what he is talking about is a practice that he did not carry out individually, but that is everyday practice in the Hungarian Socialist Party. And today, with this Socialist Party, everyone from Jobbik started together through the Democratic Coalition and was supported by everyone. We fear, and this is our greatest fear, that the Demszky era can continue in Budapest as a result of the elections, and Csaba Lackner's words support this. What is new is that the Demszky era can now continue with many more Members and more colorful Members; we hope that this will be avoided. Obviously, what happened is a crime, and we expect the prosecution to clear up what happened in Kispesten. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-214	Thank you very much. Mr Böröcz is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2019-10-21-215	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in fact, on this recording, you can hear, among other things, what the district mayor is accused of: he received millions of forints in one case and, by the way, he invests his assets in real estate purchases, obviously not in his own name. So that also raises some questions. But how did the left handle this? The MSZP and Gergely Christmas said that this case should be investigated by Mayor Péter Gajda himself, which means practically as if we were entrusting his boss with an investigation of his own gang member who had been compromised. [[Interview from Jobbik: Péter Polt!]] It's a little funny, though. The other is that they have not yet risen to the heights of Gyurcsány, because what I can imagine, unfortunately, is that on 17 November 2006, Péter Gergényi was decorated with Ferenc Gyurcsány Demszky. Maybe we'll live to see it. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that Peter Gajda will be decorated. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-216	Thank you very much. Rejoice with Minister Gulyás.
u2019-10-21-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the one hand, we will be able to obtain information on the position of the new Metropolitan Assembly on corruption, because if we have heard the news, they will vote on Gábor Demszky's title as a citizen. There you can take a stand on who supports that corrupt 20-year-old [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why hasn't he been prosecuted?]] which characterized the operation of the capital city between 1990 and 2010 and, moreover, has been prosecuted for numerous economic crimes. In the specific case, we also know from the news that the Budapest Police Headquarters has launched an investigation into the crime of economic bribery. We hope that the procedure will reveal the operation to which the words of the Socialist Member refer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.40]]
u2019-10-21-218	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government abuse the patience of the people? You have the floor, Congressman Steinmetz.
u2019-10-21-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Let me show you something today, it won't be vulgar. [[He's showing it to me.]] This is my Olympic gold medal. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties, MSZP, Dialogue and DK.]] Thank you very much. As a sports-loving Hungarian person, you appreciate the performance that leads to such a success. Hungarian people are proud of our performance, they look up to us, and they also appreciate us financially with annuities. [[Interview from Fidesz: Not the Hungarian people, the government.]] Thank them for that. Prime Minister, however, this respect is being destroyed by your former party partner Zsolt Borkai's luxury yacht orgy, which interprets Christian freedom in a special way. [[A statement from the Fidesz: You shouldn't have said that.]] What you've done is unworthy of a mayor, unworthy of a family father, and now pay attention: it is unworthy of an Olympic champion as well. It's a shame. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Orbán knocks on the bench with his hand.]] And by doing so, it destroys the social image of the Olympians. He practically finances his immoral life from his annuity. And, fellow Members, not least this man, as former president of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, is also causing invaluable damage to the Olympic movement. I respectfully ask the Prime Minister and ask him not only to answer to me, but also to the rightfully outraged athletes and sports-loving Hungarians, what he will do to protect the authority of our Olympians, which Zsolt Borkai has now torn. Do you think that the Olympians who provoke the disdain of society are worthy of an annuity? We look forward to your honest answer.
u2019-10-21-220	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2019-10-21-221	Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for raising this question in your sharpness. I'd like to make it clear to everyone that I think it's a sick thing to do on their own, or to have the people present film your own sex life. It's a sick thing. On the other hand, I think that everyone has to make the decision that belongs to him. First, Fidesz had to decide what it was doing in this situation, and we made it clear that our paths had been separated. Then the citizens of the city of Győr, who must make their own decisions, will follow. The decision on Győr must be made by the Győr. The decision on the Olympics must be made by the Hungarian Olympic Committee, so turn there, and I look forward to your presentation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You have the right...!]]
u2019-10-21-222	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2019-10-21-223	Prime Minister! Thank you so much for thinking the same way. We agree that what Zsolt Borkai did is unacceptable. And then, alive, technically, with your request, today, I presented a bill-modifying proposal [[He's presenting a document.]] which concerns that Olympics such as Zsolt Borkai, with virtually unacceptable behaviour, will be brought before the Ethics Committee of the Hungarian Olympic Committee in the future, and this committee may decide to withdraw the Olympic allowance. Prime Minister, and, by the way, my fellow Members, if it is important for you to have the authority of the Olympics, to protect it, including Fairy Szabó and mine, then please join this proposal and support it, because I think it must be made clear that things like this cannot happen here, that there is a limit to everything. [[László Szászfalvi: As well as parliamentary behaviour!]] An Olympic champion can't go down to a dog. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-21-224	The Prime Minister shall have a rejoinder.
u2019-10-21-225	So I repeat what I asked for. It may be difficult to initiate legislative procedures, but I would like to ask you to take your proposal to the Hungarian Olympic Committee, ask for a resolution, and the Olympic Committee will make its proposal, and we will consider that proposal, and we will most likely support it. The Olympians can do the most for the honor of the Olympians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Adam Steinmetz applauds.]]
u2019-10-21-226	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What could the Balliberal Mayor candidates agree on in Brussels? It's an address. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor.
u2019-10-21-227	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, What we can see is that the Juncker Commission, which has already been tired of falling back and multiple mistakes and breach of contract, is working with its last effort on immigration proposals, once again trying to force fully the compulsory allocation of migrants to the Member States. As Hungary and the Central European countries have managed to prevent the introduction of a mandatory quota, Brussels is trying to create alternative solutions to bring as many immigrants to Europe as possible. This is also demonstrated by the policy of the new Italian government on the left of the migrant party, as well as by the Maltese quota agreement for the allocation of migrants under quota. Meanwhile, in Hungary, the election campaign saw several opposition mayor candidates, such as Ferenc Gyurcsány, the candidate in Salgótarján, Szombathely or the city centre, meet with Frans Timmermans, who is extremely pro-immigration. Since the meeting between Martin Schulz and László Botka, we know that Brussels has been trying to find opposition settlements who would be willing to accept immigrants, thus trying to circumvent the decisive decision of the Hungarian people. At the recent meetings in Brussels, candidates for mayors of opposition said that they had discussed sources in Brussels with Timmermans. We know that Klára Dobrev has been working for a long time to give up our national sovereignty, and her plan is not for the Hungarian people to decide about EU funds, but for Brussels alone. He said earlier: he personally guarantees that opposition authorities will be able to apply directly for development money in the EU. That is why I am asking you if you have information about the negotiations that have taken place in Brussels, why opposition candidates have been contacted by pro-immigration politicians, if not in exchange for certain resources, in exchange for the admission of migrants to the opposition settlements, against the will of the Hungarian people, and how it helps Hungarian interest enforcement and negotiations, so that opponents keep lobbying to get less EU money from Hungary. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-10-21-229	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, this is a very important issue in which we need to be clear. Especially mayors and city leaders who are about to start their work. As to the statements made by the DK and Dobrev Klára, we are not surprised. This only confirms that the Gyurcsány clan is more interested in serving foreign interests, in Moscow and in Brussels than in protecting national interests. We will not allow Brussels bureaucrats to decide over resources. How would a Commission decision maker know from a distance of 1,500 kilometers what developments, what subsidies are needed by a Hungarian settlement? It is simply self-destructive to leave the allocation of aid money to Brussels instead of national governments. Honourable Congressman, We also know how Brussels deals with direct resources. It is shocking that less than 5 percent of the funds they manage have come to the Member States that joined them in 2004 or after, while these countries account for one fifth of the European Union's population, 20%. The government is planning to manage the European Union and Hungary's development resources in a responsible manner, respecting the deadlines. This can also be seen by local authorities, which can only develop some HUF 1600 billion in the 2014-2020 cycle through the operational programme for urban development. What the opposition claims about the local government's direct resources is simply irresponsible. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's for the congressman.
u2019-10-21-231	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. It is clear that Hungary does not accept the Maltese quota agreement, and we are only willing to support delivery quotas. [[18.50]] In our view, the previous Commission, which has been badly deposed, should no longer make such proposals and should not pursue pro-immigration policy. While they want to reduce the support of key sectors in the next budget, while they want to reduce the amount of development money we owe, they are promising direct funds to left-wing mayors in a hypocritical way. Ferenc Gyurcsány cheats the opposition mayors and all Hungarian voters with false and incredibly irresponsible promises. Thank you very much. [[Gergely Harvesto: Learn it slowly. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-21-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State will be rejoined.
u2019-10-21-233	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, The intention behind the promises must be sought, and then it is clear that the pro-immigration people want to talk about how and what to spend the funds for Hungary. Unfortunately, we also see that Brussels is building on conditions for the support system to influence areas in the Member States, such as education and health, in these areas. Furthermore, the European Commission finds a serious partner in NGOs. NGOs are unable to put direct pressure on the government at home, but they have found an ally in Brussels, trying to force their will on us. However, Hungary is an independent sovereign rule of law. That's how it's gonna stay. We don't allow strangers to tell us what to do. During the administration of Ferenc Gyurcsány, we have already experienced what it is like to provide Hungarian families and our country to foreign interests. The effect was moaned for years by the Hungarian nation. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-21-234	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question: why are the contracts of military procurement hidden from the Bermuda Triangle of the Ministry of Defence? It's an address. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has the floor.
u2019-10-21-235	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, I have addressed a number of questions to the Ministry concerning various military procurements, such as the purchase of Gripen contracts, Airbus, the two Falcon machines, Turkish armoured vehicles or the data relating to MiG-29 machines. The first answer I received from Minister was that, because it is classified information, I can get to know these answers when I look at personal files. I have made several requests for access to the Ministry or the Hungarian Defence Command. I got the answer from all over that they don't keep track of them, and I have to go to the data controller on the basis of the information law. I assume, Minister, you mean the Commissioner who is responsible for the development of defence forces. What I do not understand is why it is not possible to give a clear and clear answer to a Member's question. If you do not have these contracts on the basis of legal considerations, then why do you not get a clear answer about who has them and where should a Member turn in such a case? Especially if, by the way, you correctly indicated that you were giving me access to the file. This would be one of the questions I would like to ask the Minister why they do not dare to write down the name of Gáspár Maróth on the question that I have asked him, that he is the one who deals with these issues and that I should turn to him. The other thing I also did not get a concrete answer to was whether the Hungarian government had received a specific purchase offer from any country in relation to the sale of MiG-29 since 2010. I was also given a general answer. That is why I would ask the Minister once again whether the Hungarian Government has received a purchase offer from anyone, in particular from any other government, from 2010. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2019-10-21-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Tibor Benkő.
u2019-10-21-237	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, you came to us in writing with these questions, namely to me, for which I gave a clear answer on 14 October, i.e. dated exactly a week ago, in which I believe we have described precisely the need to contact the data controller. There is no concealment of the name of Gáspár Maróth, it is necessary to see who the controller is in these cases and, of course, to refer to him in compliance with the law. The second part of the question is that since 2010, Gripen has received any offer or purchase recommendation for combat aircraft: I have not come across such a recommendation, at least in my time such an offer has certainly not been received by the Ministry. So I can only say, as you have said, that we will continue to be at your disposal to all Members of Parliament, and we will welcome you at any time, with respect, so that you can comply with the review of the file. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-21-238	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Mesterházy in return.
u2019-10-21-239	Thank you very much. Mr President, Then I will take this opportunity, and I will find Mr Maroth in this matter, now that we have the courage to say his name. I would like to help Minister: In 2014, such a purchase intention came to Hungary from the Iraqi Government in relation to the MiG-29s. If you would do that, I would be honored if you would look into why the Hungarian Government did not make use of this offer and why this deal could not be completed at the time, since the Iraqi Prime Minister made a purchase offer on behalf of the Iraqi Government for all MiG-29 machines, and even marked the delegation for the Hungarian Government that would visit Hungary to prepare and settle the details. I understand that even Minister Mihály Varga was involved in this work at the time because of the economic negotiations. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-10-21-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a chance to answer back, Minister Tibor Benkő.
u2019-10-21-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I raised Mr. Maróth Gáspár's name, but I don't think he's a controller. According to the law, it's clear what I wrote in the letter that you have to go to the data controller. So, once again, I can tell the congressman to contact us, but Maróth Gáspár is certainly not a data controller. With regard to the Gripenek and the MiG-29: I will look at it, but I can still say that I would find it a little strange if the Iraqi Government had received such an offer regarding the purchase of the MiG-29s, but of course we will look at it, and then I would be very happy to give you answers to the questions asked. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-21-242	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Can Zsolt Borkai remain a member of the MOB's general meeting and keep his Olympic allowance? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2019-10-21-243	I don't see the Minister. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Mr President, I think the question was not whether I would accept Mr. Secretary of State as an answer. I don't accept it because you haven't given me a straight answer in a year, so I'd like to wait for the Minister. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-244	Thank you very much. The Minister shall reply at the next hour of the third immediate question. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] [[19.00]]
u2019-10-21-245	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome you all with love. Before we continue our work, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, immediately after the debate on the next bill, we will also have a decision to make. So I'm asking the faction leaders to secure the quorum. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the presentation of an agreement by way of an Exchange of Letters on the regional conference on the prevention of radicalisation leading to terrorism: regional policy responses and risk reduction. The government referral is T/7699. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I would like to inform you that no amendment has been tabled within the deadline for the submission, and therefore, on the basis of the derogation from the adopted legislative provisions, the Legislative Committee has not held a meeting today, and therefore a general debate on the bill is now taking place. I would like to inform you that according to the derogation from the adopted house rule, the opening speech and the closing clause will have a total of 10 minutes, 4-4 minutes for the political groups to speak and 2 minutes for the independent Members to speak. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, taking into account the time frame that has just been stated. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that the ten minutes are available to present the opening speech in the debate and the possible closing phrase. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us was presented on 7 and 8 November 2019 in the context of the joint organisation of the Regional Anti-Terrorism Conference on radicalisation leading to terrorism: regional policy responses and risk reduction. This event is the final event of the 2019 international regional counter-terrorism conference series preparing the second high-level counter-terrorism week in New York in June 2020. Given the special nature of the conference, the opening speeches will be held by Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and Vladimir Voronkov, Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations, Deputy Prime Minister Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior. The invited nearly 130 experts represent the five permanent members of the UN Security Council and the countries of the European Economic Area, as well as prominent international organisations such as the UN, the European Union, Europol, the OSCE and NATO. During the event, three sessions will take place, each of which will be particularly relevant to the Western Balkans, which is a priority for Hungary's foreign policy, from which a number of relevant organisations have also been invited to the conference. The first session deals with the issue of terrorist narrative prevention strategies, the second on the risks posed by returning terrorist fighters, and the third on the possibility of involving young people in combating violent extremism leading to terrorism. The aim of the international agreement to be announced is to grant all participants of the conference all the privileges and immunities normally applied in diplomatic relations that are necessary for the purpose of carrying out this event. Ladies and gentlemen, The conclusion of the agreement and the organisation of the regional conference in Budapest will make a significant contribution to increasing Hungary's visibility in this area and will provide an important opportunity to strengthen our commitment to counter terrorism in principle and in practice. That is why I ask this House, my fellow Members, to adopt the bill and thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-247	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I thank you for your speech. I would like to inform you that if you say a closing point, you will have a total of 7 minutes and 10 seconds in accordance with the ten-minute total time frame. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 4-4 minutes and the independent representatives have 2 minutes in total. I would like to ask who would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. Sigismund Brown Paul reporting.]] First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-21-248	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The United Nations General Assembly adopted the Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy of the Organisation in 2006. In 2011, the UN Secretariat set up its own organization, the counter-terrorism centre, which began operations in the spring of the following year. In June 2017, the General Assembly unanimously decided to set up a separate office to coordinate the counter-terrorism activities of the Member States, led by a new Deputy Secretary-General. As part of its wide-ranging activities, the Counter-Terrorism Office organises high-level conferences for UN Member States. The first such leadership conference took place in New York in 2018 and will be held in June 2020. In its first sequel and in its second preparation, the Office organises a number of regional meetings, including the prevention of radicalisation leading to terrorism: regional policy responses and risk reduction. On 25 January 2019 the Hungarian Government announced to the Office that it was ready to provide a location for the event, to which it received a positive reply on 9 September. Three section meetings will take place, as has been said, each of which will place particular emphasis on the Western Balkans region, from which representatives of many major organisations will also be invited to the event. These meetings will address strategies for the prevention of terrorist narratives, security risks related to the return of foreign fighters, and how to involve young people in combating violent extremism leading to terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, The organisation of the regional conference in Budapest is an opportunity for our country to strengthen its role in the international fight against terrorism and to bring the region's most important anti-terrorism leaders to Budapest. I therefore ask you to support the adoption of this bill today in order to ensure that this conference is conducted smoothly in just over two weeks' time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-21-249	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Zoltán Balczó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-250	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The introduction of the Secretary of State revealed the large and important counter-terrorism conference that Hungary hosts. We now have the task of declaring the exchange of letters detailing the details of this conference, which took place between the United Nations Anti-Terrorism Office and the United Nations Ambassador on behalf of the Hungarian Government, by law. So, technically, we have a technical task. Then I could ask why I applied for a speech. The reason for this is the coincidence of two dates. This conference will take place on 7-8 November, while Hungary will receive a very prestigious guest on 7 November, the first day of the conference. At the friendly invitation of Viktor Orbán, the Turkish head of state Erdoğan arrives here on this very day. The war that Turkey launched in Syria is not for the eradication of terrorism, and it is absolutely clear to the international community. Cynical is the name they call the source of peace. [[19.10]] This campaign will not end in peace; it is clear that it has one purpose: to deal with the Kurds. But what will the consequences be? The result will be what is already apparent, if necessary, that prisoners of the Islamic State will be released. There are 11,000 prisoners in the area under the control of the Kurds, and according to recent acts of war, 500 have been released. So how will one of the participants, who is a member of the international coalition against the Islamic State, accept that the head of state Erdoğan is here against the Kurds who have made the greatest blood sacrifice against the Islamic State? Meanwhile, we hear from Viktor Orbán that this is a Hungarian national interest, because this is the only way to prevent Syrians living in Turkey from coming to Europe, but to Syria. It doesn't bring peace in Syria. We agree that Turkey must continue to have a good economic relationship with the EU, by means of which it finances Turkey's proper maintenance of the Syrians, but this does not provide the basis for the Hungarian Government to support this in the European Union alone. Viktor Orbán referred to the United States of America. I quote the White House statement: the United States does not support this attack and has made it clear to Turkey that this operation is a bad idea. And why do we not consider the European Union to be a measure? Hungary has prevented more than just one High Representative statement from condemning this war in a clear declaration by the Union. Hungary has not for the first time vetoed an otherwise very important EU action. After that, I only hope that when our foreign minister opens this very important conference, the participants will not be aware of what Viktor Orbán said: do not listen to what I am saying, but what I am doing. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-21-251	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Mr Lőrinc Nacsa of the KDNP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-252	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, My good-looking fellow Member was unable to stay on the subject, and he brought me quite different topics when discussing the bill. I'm trying to be brief and stay on the subject. Unfortunately, we have come to believe that terrorism is now a meat-cutting reality in the western part of Europe, for example, according to London's left-wing mayor, which belongs to being a big city. We cannot accept this, and we do not accept it, Hungary has done everything in its power and beyond in recent years to combat terrorism, and it is still a priority, which is why it is important to hold a regional conference between Hungary and the UN Anti-Terrorism Office. Since the terrorist attack in Brussels in March 2016, 37 terrorist attacks have been carried out by migrants or migrants in Western Europe. In the 37 terrorist attacks, 231 people were killed and 1828 were injured. That is why, among other things, we are in favour of security and against quotas and anti-immigration efforts. Terrorist and migration are mutually reinforcing phenomena, and terrorist organisations use uncontrolled migration to bring in assassins to Europe, and efforts to combat terrorist organisations need to be increased everywhere from the location of radicalisation to recruitment and migration routes. This is particularly true of new challenges, such as online space. Hungary is committed to continuing the fight against terrorism. The UN's global organisations must also act in every way against terrorism and terrorists. This commitment is now presented in the organisation of the Budapest conference. In view of this, the KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-253	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Attila Mesterházy of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-254	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP faction supports this proposal, because it is indeed a technical task, but I would not appreciate the words of my good fellow Member, as my fellow Member Nacsa did. It wouldn't be a problem if it wasn't just a conference-organizing commitment that you were talking about. It is true that Hungary, as a NATO Member State and as an EU Member State, has again been isolated on this issue. It would therefore be useful if, beyond the topic and area of conference organisation and event organisation, the Hungarian Government could and would enforce this commitment to the fight against terrorism on other fronts of foreign policy. And it is true that there is some discreet charm that the Turkish President is coming to Hungary at the time of the conference. I trust he will not be the main speaker at this conference. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-255	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking you if anyone still wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Tamás Vargha, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, as I said, you have 7 minutes and 10 seconds. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. I would like to add to the speech by Zoltán Balczó and Attila Mesterházy that we have said several times in this House today, and I would like to reiterate that the Hungarian Government, when it formulates its opinion, and when making decisions, considers Hungary's interests to be the only thing that is of measure. I would like to add one thing: there is a ceasefire at the moment in the region that Members have spoken about. I would also like to thank you for the proposal that we have just discussed and which will agree and support the objectives of the bill before us in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-21-257	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue our work with a decision. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, Following is a series of questions, T/7699 on the publication of an agreement on the regional conference on radicalisation leading to terrorism: regional policy responses and risk reduction. Final vote of bill No 1. I would remind you that, according to our decision today, the bill is being discussed by Parliament by way of house rules. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/7699 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 128 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We've reached the end of the decisions. I am now ordering a two-minute technical break in order to allow my fellow Members who leave the Chamber to do so without delay. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the Chamber.]] [[19.20]] Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr István Apáti applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of the Prime Minister's promises to the Satmar region. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-258	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Before I turn to the actual Prime Minister's promises, to the list of promises that have not yet been fulfilled, to remind me of this, and also to the region of Szatmár, let me highlight the fact that the lowest Hungarian people living in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, especially in that part of Szatmár, are the lowest earners. A net of 138 thousand forints is taken home by an average Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county man, often less so by a worker living in a Szatmár region, although I have often said that they do the same valuable work as the people living in the capital, they fulfil the same obligations, the same laws apply to us, we pay the same taxes and other public burdens, but they are one of the most beautiful and difficult regions of this country. In the same way, I have tried several times to improve the healing potential of people living in the area of Mátészalka and Csenger, the general state of health there, but unfortunately, the pro-government representatives, including the six Fidesz representatives from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, voted against the proposals aimed at the development of the local emergency services and the Mátészalka Hospital in a series. In the past, the prominents of the governing parties promised to provide resources for the expansion of the Mátészalka industrial park and for the establishment of the bell industrial park. In the municipal campaign, there was a groundbreaking ceremony in Csenger, or perhaps it is more appropriate to say that it is another groundbreaking, but for now it has not improved the situation of the industrial park, and we are looking forward to the development of the Mátészalka industrial park. Now we've been through three responses in the last year and a half, a parliamentary, an EP, and now a municipal election, it's time to start working on the merits and fulfilling the promises. Those two specific promises, which I fear will not be the last time I will be accountable to the governing parties, with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, the two promises he made to the locals on 4 May 2017 in the presence of hundreds of witnesses. One of them is the construction of the M49 bypass road, which, as I mentioned earlier, corresponds to the 4th metro investment in the Satmar area; what was the 4th metro in Pest was the M49 bypass in the Mátészalka-based constituency. It is referred to by the respective pro-government representatives from one cycle to the next, but a single meter of this road has not yet been built, and this is tragic even if some of the road plans already exist on paper and the procurement procedure for the plans is ongoing. By the way, the Prime Minister promised this not only in the morning hours of 4 May 2017, but also a few months earlier, at the end of 2016, even in Szatmárnémeti, the Romanian election campaign. In addition, at the inauguration of the school, the Prime Minister had a firm and clear promise, and this was the construction of the prison in Jing's prison, in Hungarian. However, I am afraid that we are facing even more serious problems here than in road construction, because at least 80 people have already left their jobs because of the commitment of re-training, and instead of having to start working at the prison in Bell by about now according to the timetable, they will receive promises or instructions to go to Sopronkőhida or the other side of the country, which they obviously do not want to do. And that it would be necessary to build the M49 road, this is supported by previous data from the Mátészalka traffic census. In 2006, 10 320 vehicles passed through Kocsord and more than 16 thousand vehicles in 2010. It would be equally necessary to build the prison in Bell, and we cannot accept it, personally I cannot accept, either, that the project of building the other eight prisons has been stopped; there may be public procurement or budgetary problems here. So once again, I would like to ask you, most specifically, and now I demand that it be time to deal with both hospital development and industrial park development, and, above all, it would be time to start building the M49 road at least, and to build the Penalty Institute, which has been promised many times in the Csenger region, since it would give jobs to at least 250 people in the area. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-21-259	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that the government does not wish to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. István Apáti: Why am I not surprised?!]] Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-meeting speech: What does the central bank have to do with health? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-260	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The title describes what the central bank has to do with health and people's health problems. A great deal, after President Matolcsy always takes the trouble to give his opinion on various health issues. It is not enough for him to send a message back and forth to Mihály Varga on the news portal novekes.hu, but also to the Hungarian voters. For the last time, he has outlined plans for health, which are quite ambitious, but we can be sure that if some of them were to be achieved, we would most likely be facing an empty budget. The first such thing should be taken out of what President Matolcsy has outlined and put in parentheses here, it is important to take his opinion seriously, because in many things things things have happened as he said, so it is not certain that what he says will not happen, in the first point, President Matolcsy criticized those doctors, those decision-makers and members of the government, and started his message with a criticism, who do not do everything they can to detect infertility on the one hand, as a problem, and to address it seriously. We agree with President Matolcsy on this, and it is very important that Jobbik does not, by accident, ask for extra and extra money each year for complex measures in this regard when the budget is adopted at all times. It is obvious that he would bang open doors in the opposition, the only question is why he does not bang doors on the part of the government, and why he does not discuss them with his own partymates or former partymates. The budgetary burden on which it relies is not known, but a significant amount is also missing from this sector. The other is very interesting, common, and may also give rise to debate about the prevention of nursery influenza. Because you don't deal with a central bank president like prevention of daycare flu. But he doesn't say bad things here either. He says that it should be a custom not to get a small person to the doctor at noon, a small child to the doctor, and to be taken out of the community, but to check early in the morning whether the children are healthy. This sounds good, but seeing the resource deficiencies in the Hungarian health care system, and the children are dealt with by home-school pediatricians, their missing practice would essentially show or suggest that if they were to care for them, they would probably not be able to attend most of their own clinics, because they would only be looking at children until about noon, and then what would happen to the other children? So here, too, we are looking at a very far-fetched proposal that is very challenging in the face of a budgetary burden. Then say such things as the medicinal water is the treasure of Hungary. Good morning, György Matolcsy. That's pretty much what everyone's known so far. It reiterates its ambitious proposal to exploit this. But then there's one in which you'd raise the tax on sugar. Medically, we can say that it is absolutely right that sugar drinks, products containing too much sugar, should be subject to some kind of tax. [[19.30]] That's what happened, it's called Neta, it's the public health product tax. The problem here is that although the government takes in or obtains tax revenues as a separate tax, it has never put a label on this, it has never gone either to prevention or to reduce the harmful health effects they are aiming at. This went into the big budget, and then, God knows where, it evaporated, and in health care, the tax on products was virtually undetectable. So if you want to tax sugar, at least be consistent in telling the government that you should manage a special tax in such a way that it can be traced. The public health product tax has become an untraceable burden for the sector, even though it has served a good purpose. No doubt it would serve a good purpose now, but we will certainly not be able to do anything about it. The other is that he put the measurement of medical performance in the window, President Matolcsy, with which he essentially issued a qualification of doctors as if they were not working properly, and that their performance would be immeasurable and invisible, and that they should be examined better. I think we should look more closely at how to reduce the workload in which health care workers, nurses, doctors, not alone, but working in a team, working in a team, interacting with each other, so what we need to look at is why they have to put up with such a heavy burden. Overall, to see that György Matolcsy's ideas on health were out of control and forgot only one thing: to take account of the discipline, planning and foresight that could get health out of the current crisis, because that is exactly what is missing in the 21st century. 1st century health care and Hungarian XXI. 100th century health care. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-21-261	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will be no government response. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has also applied for a post-meeting speech from Jobbik's group:. For how long? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-21-262	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, we cannot rely on the government's response, because, as the social safety net, so did the government, its representatives simply cannot be found in the room, except for the person of the honourable leader and those who perform their duties at this late hour. But it's a symbolic question. After all, when evictions are mentioned, empty benches and uninteresting representatives come to face, and when we invite them to help bring the processes back to a legal place, they also do not take advantage of this opportunity, even though I personally have sent the invitation to the site and time of such an event to most of them. The Government of Hungary talked about the year of families, a year, a decade, which they think could lead to a demographic turnaround. I wish that were true. But if that's the goal, then the fidesz type of social safety net is to be treated as an assassination, and, of course, not just as an economic assassination. In order to get to Parliament, because there is no other way to reach it, we have brought here some specific cases from recent months, and not to be unfair, not just in recent weeks, but in a way that covers the whole year. In May, an eviction took place where a nine - childed mother was wanted out of her house for good. The thing is, these nine kids would've had a good chance in Social Services if they didn't make enough money to get a small house through a Facebook fundraiser in the form of community donations. It happened that there were two houses on the property, in both cases the owner was the husband who became a drinker and did not continue the life that would have been suitable for raising children, nor did he pay alimony for this reason. And, Mr President, it is a miracle that I cannot turn to other pro-government Members, because of the failure to pay child support, the result of which is the eviction of nine children. And the collaboration of Hungarian people was the effective act that brought a roof over these people's heads. However, if, in this process, there had been, where appropriate, a pro-government representative, a legal defender, it is possible that this whole process could have come back to the ground of legality. We also see that another lady appeared in the press in June, her case lost her arm in an accident at work four years ago. After that, the debt, as it was unable to pay, increased from 6.2 million to 8.8 million, after which, in the auction initiated by the bank, its property was dropped for HUF 8.4 million and its debt remained. He was evicted, and afterwards, besides the assistance of the Government of Hungary, the disability allowance was also taken from the woman who lost her arm in an accident at work. That would be the social safety net. This would be the family-friendly era in Hungary. It's pretty amazing. In September, the case of a 79-year-old gentleman came into perspective. His eviction was ordered for a debt of HUF 35,000. He was also dealt with by an activist group, an activist group on social media. They requested the official documentation and what they found: this gentleman had an overpayment of 47 thousand forints to the affected party, which finally initiated his eviction. This man was overpaid, but this disaster could have happened to him in the legal environment and climate created by the Government of Hungary. Without any means of review, since the excesses of the enforcement system work in such a way that if we complain about them, the eviction will take place for the first time, and then years later, perhaps compensation, when the original situation cannot be restored when the home cannot be recovered when the children have already been taken away by custody. This is not a family-friendly attitude. This is simply an anti-national disaster. I also have to say that we have also met an eviction where the aim was to have a parking lot in an EU-funded market hall. Let there be a parking lot in the place of a woman's home. And the fact is that although this woman claims and can back up with papers that she has repaid her debt, because she went out to Austria to do nursing work in her retirement years and can prove that she has repaid this debt, they have taken away the apartment because of the need to build a parking lot. It should be added that he received a compensation of HUF 9.3 million, but since there were two owners of the property, his housing should have been solved from half that amount. In today's Hungary, it is impossible to pay rent or buy real estate. One Mission: They are trying to put these people in an impossible position, and they are not on the edge of the trench, but are kicked to the bottom by the abusive legal system and enforcement system, which could not have any place in a fair nation state giving itself. That's why we're on the ground, we're gonna be in trouble with these people, and no member of the government can act like he doesn't know about this anti-national disaster. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-21-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I'm closing this meeting. Good night, everyone.
