u2019-11-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I very much welcome a single representative, those sitting in the gallery, and Mr Domokos, from the State Audit Office, every day. The 7th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Bence Tordai will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to every guest and anyone who's been monitoring our work today. Dear Parliament, Following a series of reports on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2018 and on the operation of the institution for Parliament, together with the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision to adopt it, until its closure. Report submitted by the State Court of Auditors B/0003. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Committee, H/6715. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the representative of the Government has indicated in advance that he does not wish to present a position during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, author of the report.
u2019-11-06-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, and all those who have the ability to monitor the agenda of Parliament's day-to-day meeting via television. The Act on the State Audit Office states that the President of the State Audit Office shall provide the National Assembly with information on the activities of the organisation in the previous year and shall present it in an annual report audited by an independent auditor on the measures taken on the basis of the audit findings and on the operation and management of the institution each year. In October 2010, in my first parliamentary exposé as President of the State Audit Office, I said: "The Court's work is an audit in the present, which is clearly related to the past, but always looks to the future and aims to change, improve and improve it. Control is thus an active player in shaping the future. Today, I firmly believe that the final objective of the State Audit Office with its work is the social use of the Court's work, the creation of added value at social level, and the presentation of past experiences in the present. This has not changed in the past almost a decade, and I still consider what was said in October 2010 to be valid and timely. Our aim is to improve the public financial situation, which is based on evidence-based audit findings. This also means that the objective of the Court's audits is essentially not to find faults or condemn them, but to steer them in the right direction, to start and maintain positive changes. Our aim is to make the use of public funds more transparent and effective with the analysis, studies and opinion of the State Audit Office and to contribute to the more efficient functioning of institutions and systems affecting and providing public services. To this end, in recent years, we have gradually expanded and completed our advisory and knowledge-sharing activities as defined by law. We did our work with this in mind in 2018, and we sought to present it in the preparation of our annual prospectus. You could receive this both in print and in electronic form on the public website of the State Audit Office and on the electronic distribution system of Parliament. Dear Parliament, The State Audit Office also has to carry out checks effectively and effectively, as required by law. In this context, the SAO has increased the number of audited organisations by nearly three times since 2011, thanks to the optimisation of human resources and work processes, thus significantly increasing the coverage of controls. With the development of risk analysis, audits will be carried out with a targeted, so-called control programme that meets the specific risks of the audited, so that the Court of Auditors will check where and where the highest possible utilisation can be expected on the basis of the preliminary risk analysis. In 2018, the State Audit Office presented a total of 2161 proposals for 806 audited organisations and sent 212 letters of awareness. On the basis of the audits carried out last year, a total of 323 public Court reports were produced, nearly 20 percent of which were carried out by the follow-up, i.e. the evaluation of the use of our audits. For the purposes of accountable public funds, in 2018, the State Audit Office notified an authority, a competent supervisory body and initiated proceedings for suspicion of a criminal offence or serious irregularity detected during its audits, in total 177 times. I think it is important to stress again that the State Audit Office is a financial guarantee organisation, not a public authority, so it does not have investigative powers. If, during the inspections or by means of signals received to us, there is a suspicion of a criminal offence in the eyes of the auditors, the matter shall be forwarded to the competent authority in order to carry out the necessary procedures. From then on, the owner of the case is no longer the State Audit Office, but the authority concerned, and the SAO has no influence on the further possible criminal or sanctioning outcome of the case. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2018, the State Audit Office supported the work of the Parliament, the decision-making process with 20 parliamentary briefings, and we recommended 6 legislative proposals. On the basis of its audit findings and experience, the Court of Auditors initiated a legislative amendment without the need for completeness, including, inter alia, the debt settlement of municipalities and their investment activities, the amendment of the info law and electoral and party law, the number assessment of state assets. In addition, 14 pieces of legislation and other drafts were delivered by the State Audit Office last year. Looking at the control approaches: last year, too, we placed a great deal of emphasis on monitoring inspectors. This means the control of institutions and organisations which carry out control and supervision themselves. This audit approach will make the audit staff's activities more regular, efficient and transparent so that the Court of Auditors can have a greater impact in order to promote sound, responsible and disciplined management of public funds. Thus, the Hungarian National Bank, the Hungarian Treasury and the so-called EUTAF were given special attention in order to facilitate the efficient and regular use of EU funds. We have also paid continuous and systematic attention to internal control of individual organisations. Last year, too, we put a great emphasis on the control of state wealth management. This is closely linked to the control of national-owned companies and the assessment of investments and their preparation, as the size of the budgetary resources used, the national assets created by investments are of particular importance and are growing year by year. As a practical implementation of the methodological development in this area in 2017, the Court assessed in 2018 the identification of the risks arising from the preparation of decisions and the implementation of integrity considerations for the budgetary bodies selected on the basis of the risk assessment system, as well as for the ongoing investments of national owned companies. [[9.10]] I stress that the State Audit Office of Hungary annually monitors the organisations involved in the exercise of public ownership rights, and our audit of last year was completed a few weeks ago, on 14 October. Our focus is on assessing the governance of individual organisations, which also provides a basis for uniform and transparent public asset management. Dear House, In 2018, we also paid great attention to the control of areas and organisations related to the central budget, as well as to the control of the municipal subsystem. The central subsystem institutions play a decisive role in the use of public funds. As a result, the financial and asset management of certain institutions of the central subsystem has played a role under the control of the accounts. The audit experience of hospitals has been assessed by collecting the comprehensive experience of 17 institutions and the management and functioning of state higher education institutions for 27 student municipalities. These topics are not only topical, but also of great interest to society. I am convinced that the development of the health care system and the improvement of the quality of care need, above all, regular, accountable and appropriate farming hospitals and specialised care facilities. The establishment and operation of internal regulations, which underpin effective and non-corruption management, in compliance with the relevant legal requirements, are essentially not a matter of money. At the same time, the State Audit Office also detects financing and structural problems. In our analysis published a few months ago, we pointed out that the funding of the healthcare system in its current form is unsustainable and the structure of the care system needs to be modernised. The points and conclusions of our analysis should be taken into account when rethinking the health system and financing, and when preparing for an amendment. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In my expo, I think it is appropriate to refer also to the Court of Auditors' audits on parties. According to the legal regulations, since the 1990 regime change, the SAO has been monitoring the clearance of state and other funds used in electoral campaigns as a result of the 1989 opposition round table negotiations, and it also controls every two years the legality of the management of parties which receive support from the central budget, as defined by law. Since 1990, a number of criticisms have also been given to campaign funding in Hungary and related audits by the Court of Auditors. In its report on Hungary in 2010, the Council of Europe's anti-corruption group, GRECO, proposed that the State Audit Office carry out more frequent, proactive and rapid audits in the field of political funding, including preventive measures and greater detection of financial irregularities. In its 2010 report, GRECO also proposed that Hungary review the sanctions against political financing rules at the time, that sanctions should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Based on these suggestions and the previous audit experience of the Court of Auditors, the Hungarian Parliament adopted a new law on the electoral procedure in 2013 and on the transparency of campaign costs, which gave the State Audit Office a well-defined audit function in relation to the previous options. GRECO also gave an opinion on the amendments to the law and the renewed audit practice in Hungary when it stated, I quote, that the State Audit Office has made remarkable progress in the area of control of campaign funds and parties. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Overall, the new rules on electoral procedures and campaign funding, the control levels and instruments introduced, supported to a greater extent than previously, that citizens, but also the members of the parties themselves, and their party bodies entitled to report, would be informed objectively, through the audits of the Court of Auditors, of the use of the tax forints used for the election campaign. In accordance with the law on the new electoral procedure in force from 2014, political advertising may be published only by those official registered organs which have previously sent their advertising price list to the State Court of Auditors within a given day. After the voting day of the parliamentary elections, the press agencies were also required to provide the SAO with information on the political advertisements published during the campaign period, according to your decision. This regulation has made the media market more transparent. However, it is important to know that this requirement only covers media products listed in the Media Act and that many instruments affecting electoral will, such as social media, are not subject to this obligation. Since the adoption of the party law, it also regulates the consequences of the illegal management of parties. In recent years, in line with GRECO's recommendations, the conditions have been tightened, but the law continues to determine the sanctions that relate to the mismanagement of parties and the adoption of prohibited aid. Why is that relevant? Because if a party accepts prohibited support, it is not ensured that its funding is transparent, it can gain a financial advantage contrary to the law, and the acceptance of the prohibited aid constitutes a corruption threat. Thus, the SAO does not impose penalties or fines, as the SAO is not an authority, it has no sanctioning powers. Its licenses cover that, under the provisions of the Party Act, if the Party has accepted prohibited support, it shall establish its value. The legal consequences of the prohibited aid laid down are not determined by the SAO, but by the relevant legal provisions, giving the SAO no discretion, and the enforcement of it is the exclusive authority of the law. During the control of the parties, the State Audit Office of the State acts as an enforcer for the protection of the rule of law, in order to comply with and comply with the laws. Under the applicable laws, the SAO provides the same legal procedure for all parties. That is precisely what guarantees the rule of law framework and compliance with democratic standards. It is in the fundamental public interest and the interest of protecting against corruption affecting public funds that parties should be properly, accountablely and transparently, I would say that they should be exemplary in managing the money received from taxpayers and their supporters. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Similarly to the one year earlier, the State Audit Office made proposals in its 2018 prospectus on the basis of our audit experience and analysis conclusions. A total of eight public finance policy areas have been clarified and reviewed on seven topics, which have also been sent to the responsible ministers. The proposals were formulated by the State Audit Office on the basis of its audit experience and analysis conclusions. The proposals are responsible for ensuring the proper management of national assets, strengthening state management, increasing transparency in public and public wealth management, cutting red tape and preventing, effectively managing local government debt, and, as I have already said, improving public asset management. In its 2018 prospectus, the State Audit Office proposed the elimination of cash flows in the public sector in order to increase integrity and reduce the risk of corruption. This could lead to a reduction in bureaucracy and administration and further reduction of corruption risks. The primary ground for the use of our proposals is the National Assembly. Our previous proposals and conclusions have been used in a number of legislation. I would also like to thank Members of Parliament for using the SAO's experience in their work. The establishment of the Inter-Market Committee for Governmental Relations with the State Audit Office, which is primarily aimed at integrating the Court's proposals into the public financial control system as much as possible and supporting internal control of each organisation and effective ownership and sectoral control, can be seen as the use of our work and of our two claims made in our 2018 accounts. [[9.20]] Dear House, The task of the State Audit Office is to support a well-managed state as defined by law. To this end, in addition to the Court of Auditors' reports, the State Audit Office will carry out analyses and studies. In its analyses, the Court does not make any findings, but highlights contexts and impacts, draws attention to the dilemmas, risks in the area and presents the results. Last year, the State Audit Office published a total of 17 analyses. A summary analysis was carried out, for example, on the monitoring experience of parties, public enterprises, public education human service providers and the State Treasury. Several analyses concerned municipalities. An analysis has also been carried out on public asset management, budgetary impact of monetary policy, experience of the dual training system, evolution of activity rates and internal audit experience. Last year, the Court assessed macroeconomic developments in several analyses, thereby supporting the work of the Fiscal Council in compliance with its statutory obligations and contributing to the transparency of budgetary processes. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In accordance with the decisions of the Parliament, the State Audit Office explained its activities in a number of areas last year. This includes combating corruption based on prevention, spreading the culture of integrity in the Hungarian public sector and at international level. Every year since 2011, the SAO has carried out its so-called integrity assessment, and in the 2018 survey more than ever before, 3451 organisations have participated in the survey. This means that the integrity assessment of the State Audit Office gives more accurate feedback than ever before, more thorough than anyone else on the corruption threats of the public sector, and shows that the integrity view of preventing corruption risks is widespread in the Hungarian public sector. Obviously, there are a number of tasks ahead of us, so the State Audit Office cooperates with the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Court Office, the Public Procurement Authority and the Hungarian National Bank under the anti-corruption agreement launched in 2011. The Anti-Corruption Round Table, which brings together the leaders and experts of the organisations concerned, shall take coordinated and targeted steps to prevent corruption situations and to disseminate and strengthen integrity views. The result of the coordinated work against corruption is the outstanding whitening of the Hungarian economy. The so-called VAT, which is the difference between VAT levied and the VAT actually received in the budget, fell from around 23 per cent in 2013 to 9 per cent in 2018, according to the evaluation of the European Statistical Office. This figure is better than the EU average and has reached, in fact, Austria. This does not just mean that the central budget is increasing its revenue. VAT whitening is basically an outstanding result of the fight against corruption, which creates fair relations, cleanses market processes, improves the willingness to pay taxes, and which is perhaps the most important of all also shows a change in social attitudes. Our various advisory tools, which are based on parliamentary decisions, serve to prevent corruption situations and to spread the integrity approach that follows the rules. Today, we support controlled organisations and public finance management organisations with a number of self-tests and ethical public financial management programmes. On the basis of the Parliament's decision, the social responsibility of the State Audit Office was also a priority area for strengthening the ethical financial awareness of the Hungarian population last year. Our cooperation partners aim to increase the financial awareness and public financial knowledge of the Hungarian population, thereby reducing family but macroeconomic risks resulting from faulty financial decisions and strengthening the financial security of Hungarians. The State Audit Office also placed great emphasis on continuous social information and institutional transparency last year. Nearly 9,000 news and links were published in the Hungarian media about our work, and we published more than 2,200 articles on our news portal, and we provided the full transparency of our activities. This was confirmed by a representative survey carried out by one of the major market research companies in 2018, which showed that the proportion of those familiar with the State Audit Office and its activities has increased significantly in Hungarian society over the last three years, and that more and more people are confident about the Court's findings. Dear Parliament, All public bodies are expected to make good and efficient use of public funds. In addition to its growing advisory and analytical activities, the State Audit Office will continue to increase the efficiency of its audit activities, the next level of which is the transition to the so-called digital audit environment. The audit should be carried out on the condition that the audited organisations make available to the State Audit Office credible documents capable of verifying the processes of the designated past period within the time limit set by law, and not documents that have been drawn up subsequently. In order to facilitate the provision of data and to achieve cost-effective, paper-free and thus public-sparing reporting, the SAO has established a so-called electronic reporting system. We find the facts from the documents so requested, and this is the basis for the evidence-based verification findings. The request for data is carried out in accordance with uniform principles, with transparent documents, and with quality assurance in mind. The current system ensures the separation between the request for data and the finding of verification, which is based on objective facts. It supports the reduction of the burden on the audited and also significantly moderates the duration of the audit time at each location. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The results of the year 2018 and the direction of our developments together with the digital changeover of the State Audit Office confirm that the State Audit Office of Hungary continued to perform its tasks of controlling public funds and public assets with great efficiency and effectiveness in 2018 in the legislative environment confirmed by the Parliament in 2011. This is what we strive for this year and in the future. To conclude, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament for using our audit findings, experiences, analyses and information in their work, discussing our recommendations to the legislative proposals, and thus contributing to the utilisation and effectiveness of the Parliament's financial and economic audit body, the State Audit Office. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-06-2	Thank you, Mr President, for this report. I now give the floor to Mr Jenő Manninger, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision.
u2019-11-06-3	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The new Court of Auditors Act, which was established and adopted in 2011, which is the first fundamental law of Hungary's Fundamental Law, has put public financial control on a new footing in Hungary. The new law ended the era of checks without consequences, and the confirmed powers of the Court of Auditors put into law gave real weight to the audits of the State Audit Office. We can now say that the Parliament has made a forward-looking decision when it recreated the legislation defining the functioning and professional activities of the State Audit Office for the Protection of Public Finance, adapted to the changed economic and social needs. [[9.30]] The new leadership of the State Audit Office, elected in 2010, took advantage of this opportunity and began to renew and modernise the main financial and economic control body of the Parliament. The report shows that the State Audit Office, as it did in previous years, was effective in supporting the Parliament's work in 2018. Followed up, supported this year's budget, the audit and adoption of closure accounts, with its opinion and analysis, and contributed to strengthening transparency in the budgetary planning process. It did so with a wide coverage monitoring methodology that enabled it to draw sound conclusions on the whole of public finances. The main task of the State Audit Office is to monitor the effective and legal management of public funds. During the discussion of the report, the Committee noted that the SAO was also able to perform this task effectively last year. Dear House, Let me highlight one of the SAO's multi-directional tasks. I would like to point out that in recent years, the State Audit Office has also placed great emphasis on creating a digital control environment, in addition to broadening the audit coverage and increasing the effectiveness of controls. The SAO emphasized in the information submitted to Parliament that the audit is subject to the provision by the audited organisations of authentic documents capable of being audited within the time limits laid down by law. The SAO has established an electronic reporting system to facilitate the provision of data and to achieve cost-effective, paper-free and thus public-sparing data. The audit findings were made on the basis of the documents so requested. The request for data is carried out in accordance with uniform principles, with templateised documents and with quality assurance in mind. The SAO's digital transition can be read in the report, and Mr President explained it in his exposé. I believe that not only the Court of Auditors but also the entire Hungarian public administration are facing major challenges in this respect. The use of modern information technologies is a key issue for the effectiveness of the public institution system. Our aim is to make public service administration more efficient, smoother for the public and to increase the efficiency of public sector institutions. The Economic Committee's proposal for a decision is also aimed at recognising and encouraging the work undertaken by the State Audit Office. According to this, the Parliament recognises the activities of the State Audit Office in order to switch to the digital control environment in 2018. In addition, the National Assembly supports any further activities of the State Audit Office which facilitate the provision of data from a credible source as a result of digital data processing, as well as the credibility and adequacy of the reporting and reporting of control bodies in compliance with legal requirements. Recently, new methodologies introduced by the SAO and new audit approaches can significantly extend the audit coverage of the Court by increasing performance, thus assessing a large number of audited financial and asset management. Diagnosis, methodological developments, methodology, application of the materiality approach, focus on risks, shortening the path of documents have also reduced the burden of audited organisations in fulfilling the obligation to provide documents, which is supported by this Decision. Ladies and gentlemen, Taking into account the report on the operation of the year 2018, it is clear that the State Audit Office will continue to perform its task properly, support and assist the Parliament and prepare publications and organise conferences that support the strengthening of the functioning of the good state. I therefore ask you, like the Economic Committee, to support the proposed decision. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-06-4	Thank you, Congressman. The speech will now take place in a 15-15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to F Kovács Sándor, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-06-5	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The State Audit Office is the most important economic and financial control body of the Parliament, the guarantee institution of the Hungarian democratic state settlement. Its primary task is to support regular, practical, efficient and efficient management of public funds, with its findings and proposals, and to facilitate the functioning of a well-managed state. It is essential to stress that the starting point of the SAO's activities is the provisions of the Fundamental Law, and the SAO's fundamental task is to monitor compliance with the laws and laws established by Parliament. The previous speakers have already presented the main areas and results of the audit activity carried out last year, and I would therefore like to draw attention to a few points that deserve particular attention in the debate on last year's activity report. Dear House, The information on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2018 and the exposé of President László Domokos made it clear that this work, the pursuit of renewal and the improvement of the effectiveness of public financial controls continued last year. In figures, the SAO prepared 323 reports on the audit report issued last year. The work was carried out in total for more than 800 audited organisations. On the basis of this work, the State Audit Office has put forward a total of 2200 proposals and has sent over 200 letters of notice to the auditors. On the basis of the proposals, the State Audit Office has delivered an opinion on a number of action plans drawn up by the auditees, helping to make the proposals more accessible. This means that in 2018, the State Audit Office only contributed to the development of the Hungarian public financial system at nearly 2,500 points by means of its reports and subsequent calls for attention. On this basis, it can be concluded that the State Court of Auditors continued to play the role of the financial guaranteeor as defined in the Fundamental Law in 2018, with its audits, analyses and extensive knowledge-sharing activities, contributing to the development of public finances. The State Audit Office has fulfilled its statutory obligation. Dear Parliament, It is also apparent from the information provided by the State Audit Office that last year the SAO paid great attention to the control of state asset management and public investment, the areas and institutions related to the central budget and the controls concerning the municipal subsystem. As President Domokos pointed out, the SAO's 2018 prospectus also formulated those points on the basis of its audit and analysis experience. They are used to ensure responsible, systematic management of national assets, to strengthen state management, to increase the transparency of public money and wealth management, to reduce bureaucracy and to prevent and effectively manage government indebtedness. The proposals, concrete proposals and conclusions of the State Audit Office highlight the areas to be developed. The efficiency and effectiveness of the use of public funds have improved noticeably in recent years. At the same time, we can't sit back. The key issue is the managed use of available resources. The conclusions of the audit and analysis of the State Audit Office, which appear in the SAO's prospectus in a highly transparent and structured form, contribute to these objectives. [[9.40]] Our task, ladies and gentlemen, is to make the greatest possible use of the experience of the State Audit Office in Parliament's legislation. The key task of the State Audit Office is to monitor and monitor budgetary processes and to support the Fiscal Council. It is worth recalling that in 2010, when the civilian Fidesz-KDNP government took over the country, Hungary was in a terrible state of bankruptcy, and the Hungarian economy was strangled by international creditors and speculators. Compared to this, economic growth is now above 5 percent, which is one of the most outstanding across the European Union, several times above the EU's growth rate. Real wages have been rising for six and a half years, unemployment is falling, almost 850 thousand new jobs have been created in recent years. At the same time, budgetary management is tight and disciplined, which means that every year the debt-to-GDP ratio of the Hungarian economy is still being reduced, which we are slowly growing by working hard. These results are complex and essentially due to the work of the Hungarian people. At the same time, with its systematic monitoring and analysis activities, the State Audit Office has also made a significant contribution to the macroeconomic results of recent years. We can say that Hungary has a Court of Auditors that takes its tasks as defined in the laws seriously and in practice, and makes an outstanding contribution to good governance, to a well-managed state. Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, the State Audit Office also performed its audit tasks effectively in 2018, supported the functioning of the parliamentary committees effectively, and also fulfilled its information and approach-forming tasks. The report before you shows precisely and in sufficient detail the SAO's activity last year, which is clearly considered to be effective, and the Fidesz fraction therefore supports its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-06-6	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2019-11-06-7	Mr President, Dear House, Since, in previous years, we have had very tough debates on the current SAO reports, with strong arguments, which did not, by the way, lack political overtones, either way, I was prepared to have a more professional debate today. Mr President's exposé has gone in this direction, and I welcome this part. At the same time, my fidesz lead speaker dissipated this illusion. You can see that it's simple here, low-cost, I don't want to use any more signs, but you're in the process of political agitation propaganda. Obviously, I'll respond to that in your area, because there's something to respond to. However, I do not wish to reopen the debates of recent years. Likely, with the President of the SAO, we will not hit each other in the palm of our hands in relation to the various political parties. I think we can both predict that. At the same time, there are many professional criteria and professional points here in this report and in this document, where a meaningful debate may arise, and I will be open to this. Obviously, I also hope that we can get substantive answers not only with regard to the closing, but also with the cooperation of fellow Members we can exchange ideas on substantive issues in the meantime. I would like to say that I am fundamentally encouraging the broadening of the portfolio of the Court of Auditors' activity. So I am not far from having the attitude of neither the Court of Auditors nor the National Bank to limit itself to its strict core activity, which, in fact, is historically common for decades, but also bravely to open up to new challenges in new areas. So I would like to say that I have absolutely no problem with principle. At the same time, I see that the fact, and unfortunately this is already a matter of fact, that the State Audit Office has become a political actor and a political player by using its decisions, as other political actors have actually posted its activities, makes it very difficult to succeed in this portfolio expansion, more precisely: the professional handling of this. Behind everything, everyone in Hungary now suspects political levers and motives, and depending on their location in the various cart camps, their belief in these matters is formed. That is why I have some scepticism about the fact that this portfolio expansion should be about raising financial awareness, which is, by the way, a common goal, or how effective it can be on any other matter of principle. I think we should first clarify what Mr President has answered in previous years, but now not what type of audit the Court of Auditors is carrying out. Here we could talk about a classic financial audit according to international conditions; a performance audit, which is close to me, is aimed at assessing the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of the use of public funds and wealth under the name of performance audit; and, thirdly, the so-called compliance check, which Mr President said in response to the question I asked in previous years, that this is the closest to you; and a combination of these. However, whoever opens this document, on which we are discussing and arguing, cannot find a clear answer to the type of audit that the Court of Auditors is examining on the relevant issues. Once again, the use of which type by the Court of Auditors has been highlighted earlier. What we do not see now is that, for this amount of ten billion per year, what the activity costs, what the quote or imaginary consumer receives. We could also see, and I wanted to mention this with regard to the broadening of the portfolio, that advisory activity, which is increasingly dominant, simply cannot replace control itself, since advice could be given on the basis of the experience of wider controls that are well founded. This is something that László Nyikos, who has been an excellent fellow Member, has been the source of the debate between us, and I do not make a secret about the fact that when I prepare for such a debate, I obviously first ask for the opinion of László Nyikos, because he is much better at this area than I am or, in my view, most of our fellow Members. At the same time, we have not succeeded in closing these discussions in principle in recent years, so I am forced to reopen and re-open them until we get to a standstill. Another great pain I'm in is the idea of strengthening the stocktaking of state wealth. Specifics can be found in the document in this regard, but I do not understand how the SAO is responsible for making statements regarding state assets, national assets, either in such a way or in such a way, since there is still no national inventory of assets promised in 2010. In subpoena: Mr President, and I do not know what the family silver that we are discussing now is, in fact, a possible increase in what it is. So, in the absence of a national inventory, making such statements is, in my view, at least hasty. Furthermore, it was not good for the President to examine the material on behalf of the President on the same titles as I am reading now, under the title of inspection and analysis experience: in order to facilitate the functioning of the well-managed state, the President of the SAO makes statements. These preconceptions that this state is already well-managed, but let's help it out one way or another, they hurt my eyes. So the bias that it seems to be very important to give in such a situation, I do not think it is discovered in this sentence, and I see that if it were a well-managed state, then system errors such as a currency-credited cataclysm could not occur, then a housing cataclysm and crisis, which currently drives tens of thousands of people out of the country, would not occur. The numerous criteria of a well-managed state are not presented by the present Hungary, so I ask Mr President to be careful with similar findings, since it is not in order to protect my personal comfort zone, but it is indeed a serious impairment of impartiality. We can also see that I have mentioned all this in the previous debate in the previous period, if you recall that in the SAO's report you cannot really distinguish the material error from the irrelevant one. Imre Ritter, the case of my fellow Member, is now uncovering this when, in connection with the previous audit, they have come to the conclusion that insignificant matters are being placed on the SAO's table and then reports, such as a curtain-carnis, Mr President, and findings on the preservation of the assets of some beer benches or beer tables are being made. I understand the need for thoroughness and its intention, and I support that, but let's not make this a joke. It is a very serious institution that you run, and I do not think that beer benches or carnis registered at zero forints should belong to the circle that could come before us in a serious report. We can also see that there is an additional Hungaricum, this is an examination of the reliable, real picture of the annual budget report. My personal opinion is that, by the way, a good part of the profession shares all of this, that without a closing account, the next budget should not even be planned. Let's just think that if we started the debate on the next year's budget this autumn, let's say, up to date inflation data, and we could plan social transfers or changes in the whole social security system, small changes. [[9.50]] We cannot do this, since, without having a final account, I believe that the next budget has been planned too early, but the SAO's findings on whether the budgetary accounts are reliable, their overall picture is real and raise questions. One is the type of audit the SAO is subject to, and this is not apparent from the document. On the other hand, nowhere in the European Union has we found such a set of clauses, which the SAO is not forcing itself to do, but where the legislator has installed this important control task. I suspect that the Treasury can't handle this, and I also see that there are shortcomings on the front of the check that we can't allay our doubts about. After all, in 2019 he does not say anything, and in 18 I will not say, among other things, 3200 again: the unsolved audit of the closure of 3200 local governments. It's an amazing number, and it's just missing from the system. So when my fellow Fidesz-KDNP Member, Mr lead speaker, mentions how much more extensive the controls can be carried out, I would add to you that it is enough for the SAO to say that you do not have to commend each other because it continues to erod the appearance of independence. It's enough for the SAO to say that, and then the congressmen will argue with him. I don't think this organization needs the protection of Fidesz-KDNP. When you talk about broadening controls, see that thousands of unsolved municipal audits are available, so these accounts are not properly audited as they would allow for the vision of the whole picture. [[F by Sándor Kovács:]] No matter how much he shakes his head, this did not happen in Hungary. It's a simple professional question, you know, 1.0, yes or no. The fact is that your Secretary of State can tell us that: "Don't work, you're in the right mode, but that doesn't mean it's not worthy of a parliament. So if this audit did not happen, then there is nothing to talk about, then it is not possible to talk about a complete audit picture, or at least it is the person who claims it in the Hungarian Parliament. And the fact is, I have tried to appreciate the SAO's paper before us with sufficient restraint and professional appreciation, so I have now tried to ignore the signs of the political club in this speech. I am now going specifically to the Fidesz lead speaker, because on the one hand he has taken the debate in a direction that does not belong at all, but the possibilities of the general debate are very wide, so there is no reason to stop us from talking about other subjects today. But to link the debate of the SAO report with the fact that, according to my fellow Member, Mr F Kovács, it is located here in Canaan with milk and honey, and the victory report makes a familiar propaganda report from a period of a very bad memory, well, at least interesting. But let's talk about what you said: economic growth, over 5 percent. All right, let's all be happy together. I would add that you are always looking at GDP, and I would be very, very interested in the performance of the Hungarian national economy. What now, my fellow Member? Reports of 6-7 percent minuses have been received from Germany, Northern Europe, and the redundancies will typically not start in Germany by the German car factory, will start in Hungary, and will start in the areas of the Colonial Zones to which it has relocated some of its activities. And I get it. [[On the sign of Gábor Bányai:]] And I see that the vice-president is also shaking his head, and I know that we are reassured that demand in these premium categories does not fall so much in a time of crisis, so that we do not see the spread of the 6-7 percent minuses as a huge technical error, it would show a huge lack of preparation. So I have to say, I think the government knows that trouble is coming, and it's no coincidence that Minister of Finance is preparing pictures of the contagion crisis with excellent communication. In terms of economic growth, I have two problems. One is that they are typically not produced by the Hungarian national economy. Hungarian companies, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, can only be found at a lower degree of the supplier value chain in this system, among other things because you did not otherwise conclude the slow increase in Hungarian wages in your strategic contracts with multinational companies, but you also did not make a fair share of suppliers by Hungarian companies, and the exposure of the Hungarian economy is brutal. In the coming years, we may still be able to produce an economic growth of around 2.5 percent, but then, unfortunately, this number will start to decline. With regard to the increase in real wages, I welcome the fact that we can talk about positive data. And then I'll start with where my problems are. On the one hand, how can it be statistically, my fellow Member, that when the KSH examines the fact that a typical retired couple, if they go into a typical shopping shop in the grocery store or supermarket, why is KSH looking at a consumer basket two years ago, why not this one? Why should the data be distorted even at such a minimal level? I'm not saying that you're distorting in person, I'm saying that what you're referring to is not the real picture. The same is true of the number of employees. Congressman! You have not created 850 thousand jobs in Hungary since 2010. The market has created a great deal, I welcome that. You have consented... [[On Gábor Törő's mark:]] Don't smile, because it's not that funny. Press the button and argue about it. You have contributed to the creation of countless valuable jobs, but this ridiculous number war you are conducting is again statistically unsustainable. Congressman! You're on an employment course with me, the president of the SAO, a health worker, a host, and a student worker who takes an hour's work a week. Do you understand that? Well, you're not talking about reality. Well, how dare you, on a statistical scale, include these people who may, without exception, perform excellent and important work? ! There's no real and real picture coming out of this. Talk to us in Parliament about how many real jobs have been created in the productive sector with measurable taxes! Why don't you talk about that? Eighty-five thousand clubs throwing in a number you heard in the press? [[F Sándor Kovács intervenes.]] Please, this is frivolous. Student workers are counted as full-time employees. You can argue in favour of it, and student work is very important, but in a statistical line it is not so professional, it does not reflect the real picture. They're counting the people who work for the public, and they're still counting them. Act separately and talk about the numbers that are free of those categories. Thirdly, some of our fellow countrymen working abroad are listed here, those who have not completely eliminated their social security, residence, all of their belongings, but who may sometimes come to you for a reception hour by those who have been flirting with the idea of emigration, or who have been living abroad for a few years. Fortunately, our fellow countrymen typically don't. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] cutting their roots like this, and I'm really, really happy for you. I could continue with your criticism for a very long time. I may continue, although I do not know if it is worth it in this House for the sake of the record and history, but I do not only ask the questions I have listed. [[The president's ringing again.]] But I expect an answer. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-06-8	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-06-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I would argue with Dániel Z. Kárpát that in many cases only professional discussions should be held, especially if we are talking about the annual costs of such a serious institution. Then we could do that if we could say that the operation of the institution is completely independent of politics. In recent years, however, they themselves have demonstrated that they are not independent, especially from government parties, the operation of the SAO. They have shown me many times, but I will explain why I say this, that they do indeed, in many cases, make political requests or commands, but I will also try to deal with the profession at the beginning of my speech. Mr. President. I usually read the reports they send to the Members when they check which institution, when they check which party, and I read these reports in order. It hit me that, in most cases, I think 99 percent, I'm going to be reading sentences that you're writing down in these reports. I would like to read from the latest report published by a company of a local government in Budapest what the SAO stated:. The management of the municipal company was not regular in 2017; the items of the balance sheet of the accounting report were not supported by an inventory; its report was not substantiated, therefore the transparency and accountability of its management was not ensured. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.00]] Another: the following findings have been made in the control of multi-faceted health business organisations. The President of the SAO pointed out that the irregularities detected in the institutions and companies concerned have endangered the reliability of the responsible financial management, there have been risks in the financial processes and in the solvency of the institutions, and that the irregularities in the management have significantly increased the risk of corruption. At the same time, it is important to stress that the irregularities detected did not appear uniformly in all farming organisations; in the case of some institutions or companies, the SAO has also experienced regular management practices. Mr. President. We keep reading this in every report: there was no proper farming, there were signs of corruption, and we read this almost a hundred percent of every case we looked at. Then, Mr President, I will ask you, because you said things here that protect public money, create transparency, reduce corruption in the interests of state wealth. Mr President, I keep reading these reports, and when there is a debate on the budget, a debate on closing accounts, you stand up to the pulpit, and you commend the government's activities very much, and then reports come that nothing is okay, no one is following anything, and no discipline can be observed by these companies, economic organizations, municipalities, state organisations. Somehow these two are not in line, Mr. President. I hope you'll give me an answer to that. But let's get into what I started with, because I can't do politics with the annual reports, because we've seen over the years that you've made a difference between tests and investigations. I write to you mainly about the fact that the parties are being examined on an annual basis, and I have asked you a number of written questions about how, let's say, opposition parties are being continuously investigated while Fidesz-KDNP is not being investigated. This is what you wrote, that you will examine the activities of the Fidesz-KDNP next, although I might be able to dictate what they will write in the report. In fact, I would like to mention a case that I wrote you a question during the elections in 2018 as to how it can happen, since there is a passage in support and control of the parties that grants above HUF 500 000 should be reflected in the annual report at the parties, and although in 2018... although now, in 2019 we could observe it even more closely, I will give you one example, Mr.Bence Rétvári distributed quite a lot of potatoes during the 2018 campaign. I would add that in 2019 at the municipal elections, Fidesz mayor candidates distributed so many potatoes to buy votes that there was a shortage of potatoes in Hungary. Then I drew your attention to the President's fact that a potato division exceeds 500 thousand forints, and we do not see in the Fidesz-KDNP account year after year that these charities above 500 thousand forints appear in the party's account. Well, I very much hope that when the Fidesz-KDNP investigation is carried out now by the State Audit Office, we will now have an answer as to how this can happen, even because I am very afraid that potatoes will have to be imported from abroad and that Hungarian potatoes will be put at a disadvantage in the Hungarian market, because someone has bought and paid for this product. The fact that you are engaged in such a political activity, to put it mildly, has led us to experience this in the examination of opposition parties in recent years, precisely when we called the SAO to account for not having to investigate the electoral abuses that we have experienced in recent years, I would now be specifically politicalising. The fact that these investigations do not take place only in opposition parties is why the State Audit Office was paid by the Government in 2018. The salary of the staff of the State Audit Office, by increasing the weighting of the basic salary to a significant extent, has also meant a increase of hundreds of thousands of HUF in salaries for employees there. The salaries of the managers working in the SAO can reach or even exceed HUF 3 million. This follows that, in addition to the multipliers, in the year preceding the reference year, the managers are entitled to a 35 per cent salary allowance, and the President of the SAO may raise the basic salary by 60 per cent or reduce the basic salary by 10 per cent. It can be seen that the Court of Auditors has finally received from the government the kind of reward that could be expected for its work. We have seen in recent years and let me highlight some examples of, say, the punishment of Jobbik, or I would like to bring up the punishment of the Democratic Coalition, or the punishments of my party, the Hungarian Socialist Party, and we have seen that this is always more intense during some campaign, how the controls of these opposition parties are carried out, and what irregularities are detected in the operation of the parties. In relation to these penalties, the Constitutional Court recently stated that the circumstances of its imposition are contrary to the provisions of the Fundamental Law, because according to the Constitutional Court, the requirement deriving from the Fundamental Law is that judicial review should also be provided in the proceedings of the State Court of Auditors. This has not been achieved in many cases, Mr President. However, this option was not provided by the government. At the State Court of Auditors, it seems that no one has even thought that the imposition of sanctions without remedies is illegal, since no correction has been initiated by the State Court of Auditors in any way. The blocking of budgetary resources is a sanction in accordance with the applicable judicial practice. At least it could have been expected from the State Court of Auditors to show restraint, because they should at least have felt that such a sanctioning of opposition parties would be morally condemned if they had not recognised unlawfulness, since it undermines plural democracy, renders opposition parties impossible and constitutes a solution that resembles Asian dictatorships. Hungarian society could expect a greater degree of independence from the organization where starting salaries reach 600 thousand forints and executive salaries reach millions of forints. Unfortunately, this is not spectacularly so. I would like to give an example, Mr President, to illustrate this in section IX. example of a district. János Bácskai, who led the district for nine years, was replaced this autumn by the residents of the district, and then suddenly the State Audit Office of Hungary remembered that one of the local government's businesses was operating in an irregular way, and the municipality was a bad farmer. This report was published a few days after the elections. The SAO identified a fundamental deficiency, for example that the municipal company concerned did not have an annual report accepted for three years, even though they would have been obliged to accept it on the basis of the law. There are two options: either the auditors working for 600,000 and millions of payments will take three years to determine whether the Fidesz local government does not comply with fundamental laws or simply once again carried out a political order, as they knew that these shortcomings would soon be revealed as the opposition mayor took office. Given the number of times the SAO controls Fidesz, KDNP and the government-party authorities, there is no doubt that the State Audit Office will continue to carry out political orders and will not even keep its independence in traces. I have only brought up these examples, Mr President, because I would really like to have an answer to the fact that, if we read these reports... and in my next speech, I would specifically mention it and I would like to thank Mr President for having examined the meal separately and for making exactly the same findings in this report. And I'm going to read it separately, because my pro-government fellow politicians don't believe the speeches when I tell you what the problem with children's meals is in the holidays and social meals, then I'm going to read to you the SAO report word for word, which confirms word for word what we have said over the years, what the problem is with the municipalities, how they don't fulfil their obligations under the law, and you have written this down, in case they will believe their own SAO president. [[10.10]] The other two reports, which I am very pleased about, and thank you for having done so, and these findings have been described, are health inspection and emergency care. And thank you very much for writing the same thing, Mr President, which the opposition representatives are trying to confront the pro-government politicians and the government about the problem in health every day, constantly, every week. I'll just go back to what I said at the beginning. If you make these findings, send to the Ministry of Health the points on what needs to be changed, what rules should be changed, what should be observed by these institutions, how can none of this happen? And how can it happen, Mr President, that you will then stand on the pulpit in support of the budget and say that everything is all right with the budget, that everything is all right with the accounts, and that in Hungary the government will do everything right? Those reports are not in line with the recommendations you're making on the pulpit. I very much ask you to answer that, because we should actually understand it once, or even deny what I said, that then you will only do political will. Because these reports actually show what opposition politicians say week after week at the plenary session of Parliament. I very much hope that the following speeches will also show that the kind of professionalism that Dániel Z. Karpát talked about is something that is noticeable in these materials, because then they would not describe these problems that we will talk about. I would not dare to write it down; I would only ask Mr President to finally get there in 2019 because the time will come for you to carry out with the government the findings that you are making, because that is your job. Because if we're talking about the collapse of health care and the recommendations have been made, I have to say that if the health system collapses, you'll be accomplices to this. Don't pull this on yourself, Mr. President, because I don't think anyone wants this on their own. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-06-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-11-06-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let us continue where my fellow Member suggested, initiated, and, in this sense, the thoughts or questions that we are looking for really count on Mr President's contribution, and on the other hand, I will limit myself or rely on the report that you have given us. And if we look at the operation of the State Audit Office and try to put it into today's system, how and what it is doing here as an element of the national cooperation system, so this political judgment is not only that opposition parties are unable to abstracte, but neither do you. Maybe it doesn't qualify as a prohibited use of an illustration device if I show them their own prospectus. [[He's presenting the SAO's briefing.]] , in which the State Audit Office's wheel fits into the functioning of the State Party and signs that the SAO's operation is summarised. It's written here, so that's how the State Audit Office works. Yes, you will find everything in order on one side, and we will be happy to point out what is real compared to what you can produce in such a very beautiful publication. In order to bring the picture and the statement, reality and sentence into line here in some way, I have a respectful suggestion for that. I would kindly ask the President of the State Audit Office to initiate the change, which began with the administration of Fidesz, that the State Audit Office's audit, financial audit function, report of its activities should not go to the Economic Committee, but to the Committee on Budgets. There's an unwritten rule that should be followed, by the way. The fact that the President of this Parliament does not respect this fact that, by the way, the pro-government majority makes a decision to flee to the Economic Commission, where President Erik Bánki can quietly keep accounts under his protective wing, with a fidesz majority, I understand that this is the intention, but if you want to keep a tiny distance during or within the framework of the pro-state operation, then do so. Do it. Have the courage, Mr President, to ask you to come to the Committee on Budgets, to grant this legislative opportunity, because, as we have heard in the introduction, in some cases, you are very happy to refer to the fact that you are only legislaters, enforcers, and otherwise you have no other option, but I would like to mention this. I would also like to make this suggestion to the President of the Hungarian National Bank, that I understand that he is willing to report there, but if he has some courage in it, he should come to the area where, let us say, he can expect a debate, even if the opposition is in a minority, but I think that this area could or should be done in order to comply with the unwritten rules. I would like to say a few words about what Mr President said, and what is, of course, related to the information given, I would like to add a few points to that, and then I would like to address two specific issues in the following part of my speech. One of the things that Mr President began to say is that the information itself and the conclusions drawn from it give us an opportunity to look forward to an active future, and that I would be happy to say, by this sentence, what happens when the findings are made and then, as usual, a plan of action is drawn up, and then, after the follow-up of the action plans, the findings come to light that nothing had to be done, and then what the consequences are. Mr. President, this is not going to be a future-making process. They're making paper, but it doesn't change anything. You said in the introduction that funding for the health system is not sustainable. If you say so, then, let's just say, perhaps you could do it to the government at a time when... and then, starting from the movements, MEPs, primarily pro-government representatives, could hear it, and in this sense I can echo only what you said otherwise, that funding for the health system in this form is not sustainable. As a result, institutions that do not come to the guests for services are in fact in a dramatic situation. Well, they're ringing back in this form, that's for sure. Well, let's look at two things in particular. One of these, which is about the parties, is that the President of the State Audit Office, especially on the basis of what has been said, cannot get away with it, even if I do not wish to speak specifically about the violations, harms and punishments of the Democratic Coalition, because we have already expressed our objection, even if we do not ask you for any kind of support in consultation. [[10.20]] In all cases, your colleagues refer to them as enforcers, they cannot provide any support, they are waiting for the events to happen and will check it out. These checks include the fact that, as I say, and consider this personal representatives' opinion to be a process of building up elements that would lead to the fact that the parties and organisations that you have chosen and deserve to be punished. I'll give you one of these. When you have ordered and developed the process of uploading sea-sized material over the Internet within a few days of your deadline being closed, without any opportunity to fill the gap, the gate will be closed, so that you know that this cannot otherwise be resolved from the moment that you have set the deadline, and you refuse to raise awareness about it, what I consider this to be other than deliberate, that you will then find that these documents have not been received. Well, what can you do with that now, Mr. President? Your colleagues behaved accordingly and acted accordingly. So here to say or to think that some kind of supportive assistance, guidance can be given to the organisations concerned... I think it applies to other organisations in the same way, but they are not fortunate to be able to say this directly to the President in this form. In the course of the inspections, which, let's just say, your judgment varies from year to year, and you are apologizing for these questions outside of the shoulders, I think that you can't answer without a meaningful answer, I think it's unacceptable. How you decide how the case is judged, at the moment, I see that subjective, no quality assurance can be discussed here, in this process you can make such decisions. As regards the parties, you have mentioned how important it is for them to be in the face of corruption measures regarding the adoption of prohibited aid. But what do you consider to be the support when, by the way, a government spends ten billion in favor of a party in order to achieve its election success? You do not have a sentence in this framework, which, of course, fits well in this sense, that you are an important element of pro-state operations, in which you confirm that, by the way, the party of the government, the party of the state, is working well and correctly. That's the certificate you need to draw up. After that, to say that parties should be exemplary, while one of them has not been examined in the present situation, and the other is otherwise placed in a built-in way and the staff is inserted between the spokes, so, Mr President, I think it can be considered ridiculous, and therefore, in vain, you claim that you are required by law to stick this stick between spokes, and you have no other option, so I think that this is something worth saying. Let us also look at a specific case involving personal correspondence. You have talked a lot or more about how important it is to explore corruption cases. Here, he took special care with the reduction of the budget. I would like to draw your attention to another gap, and that is the statement, the report on the internal control system of the municipalities. The establishment and operation of the internal control system of the Municipality of Győr County was regular, the investment activity was properly carried out, but the municipality still needs to make efforts to develop special corruption controls to ensure integrity. There will then be a follow-up, based on the findings of the follow-up protocol, neither the notary nor the mayor held any need for any procedure, and they will write it down, and accordingly state that the mayor has reviewed it, that it was necessary to investigate labour law liability, that he did not need to do anything, so your recommendation is not worth much. Compared to this, we see what happened in Győr, we see that there is a corruption situation, which is expected to result in Zsolt Borkai's resignation of his mayor tomorrow, and then you can really look back and look forward to it. This initiative, which seems to have been a good one a year ago, although the follow-up was this year, if I remember correctly, under such circumstances... I could punish you now by reading your entire letter, but I will not, but it should be a lesson for all of us. I have received this answer: I inform you that the State Audit Office has carried out several inspections in recent years at the Municipality of Győr County, which affected the local government's companies. On 10 January 2019 the SAO published its report on the latest post-control of the municipality of Győr in which it assessed the implementation of the tasks set out in the action plan drawn up by the Municipality on the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors' audit for the period from January 14 to 30 April 2016. I would like to inform you that the State Audit Office will make use of the information provided to it under the statutory obligation or of the information, indications or other documents received by it in the context of its ongoing audits or in the planning of its audits. Well, thank you very much for that answer. All I'm asking is that you perform a fair inspection of what happened in Győr. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-06-12	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-11-06-13	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, It is sad, but I have to go on where my fellow opposition Members have stopped saying that the State Audit Office is practically the government's extended political arm; it receives and performs orders on a political basis. The report therefore mentions, of course, the interim parliamentary elections held in 2015 and the interim municipal elections held in 2016, their execution and the use of funds, as well as the conduct of the national referendum held on 2 October 2016 and the control of the funds and accounts used here. Of course, the State Audit Office establishes a proper spending, which in itself shows the extent to which bias is involved, since we know precisely that in the context of the referendum, the Hungarian society could have received a massive, expensive package of propaganda, and, of course, this would have been inappropriate for the State Court of Auditors, let us say, to criticize it. [[10.30]] But they did cost billions, and let's be honest, it didn't even make sense, because the referendum was ineffective and invalid. In 2018, the State Audit Office played a great deal because of the parliamentary elections. Although this report does not give any details, several parties were checked before, during and during the parliamentary elections, but I think it is particularly interesting, and I would like to stress that one party was not controlled by the State Audit Office, namely the largest governing party, Fidesz. They just slipped out. It wasn't their turn. I understand that. I just think it's weird. I think we need to discuss in any way that, on the other hand, the other opposition parties have, of course, been checked and found in an interesting way. And now I will not say it again, what my fellow Member Varju has already said to me, that they have even tried to make reporting more difficult with all their means. I think this perfectly demonstrates that you are unfortunately no longer an independent institution. We know exactly that the President of the State Audit Office was a member of Fidesz; we know precisely that he was a representative of Fidesz; and we also know exactly what personal good relations he has with Prime Minister and several representatives of the government. While I was talking, the camera probably didn't show, he was shaking hands with one of my Fidesz fellow Members. [[László Domokos: It worked!]] Which, I think, is perfectly fine, I'm just trying to present the personal good relationship in my speech as the lead speaker that no one is talking about, and which, by the way, is talkative about the way the State Audit Office works. I think, by the way, we really need to talk about my fellow Member Bangóne IX. district control. This is my constituency, isn't it? How interesting it is that we are practically there that the campaign can be designed by Fidesz-KDNP so that it is practically part of the campaign strategy that the State Audit Office will then make what findings, how timed. Interestingly, an earlier audit was only made public after the municipal elections, accidentally; the postman was late in the e-mail account, I guess who knows. And you're talking about corruption control, and you, when it comes to the ruling party, are doing nothing. Because how many statements have you made, Mr. President, where, for example, during the control of District V, you would have objected to the sale of property at a price of 200,000 forints per square metre in District V? Not 20 years ago, now. And I wonder if it's the IX. During district control, he noticed that real estate had been sold in accordance with Section IX. in the district, that the property was valued at HUF 15 million, was sold for 7.5 million in accordance with the regulation, but in three weeks it changed hands again for HUF 30 million? So you didn't even comment on the fact that the valuation is as false as it is, and that these municipalities need to take down virtually serious losses. You all didn't realize this, but you could see constantly that opposition parties were being controlled, that they were renting a slightly cheap, very cheap office. I think that it is possible here to list practically the entire opposition side, who has been, to put it this way, fined with wall talk. The 2018 report also looks back to previous years and parallels the effects of monetary policy, glorifying, of course, the work of the Hungarian National Bank. Of course, it is a well-built system, since one of its independent organizations can praise the other to the Hungarian state, thus strengthening communication. I think that doesn't mean we can't see through this. At the same time, it should be seen that the return to the years 16 and 17 and 15 makes this glory interesting to the extent that it was when the funds received by the Hungarian National Bank to its foundations lost their public money character. Ladies and gentlemen, To date, I do not understand, and there are probably some of us on the opposition side, we did not understand the position of the State Audit Office, and we do not understand how something could lose its public money character and why the State Audit Office did not act effectively and loudly when it was talking about the operation of the Hungarian National Bank. However, I think this was the biggest insolence of the previous cycle, because we know precisely that these foundations were financed from their own pockets by the Hungarian foreign exchange credit victims. It can be said that it was practically the profit generated by the Forinting Act that gave the Hungarian National Bank the opportunity to spend so much free money on foundations. And I think that this is not a negligible item, because we are talking about nearly 300 billion forints. As the main financial and economic control body of the Parliament, the State Audit Office of the State is the independent institution of the democratic institution system. This is something you like to stress, and I like to rebut in my speech as a keynote speaker, as I have done in the past. I think that we can prove it, and on numerous occasions it has been proven to the public that the SAO is fulfilling the orders requested by the government, that it is looking at it and that it is punishing it in a targeted way, and that I think that this is not right. And indeed, we would expect what my fellow Member Varju has already said, that the aim of these investigations should be to be party-politically independent, so that they can see what everyone sees. What my fellow Member Bangóné said about mass catering is a perfect example: we are talking about similar mistakes, and you will find the same comments that we talked about with annual slippage. I am asking you, Mr President, to take note of the corruption risks of municipal real estate sales and to raise your word that Hungarian municipalities are typically talking about Fidesz municipalities, I am talking about V. and IX. I can talk specifically about the district, practically because of the sale below the price, they're making a lot of money, and they're handing it out to my friends. So I think it is difficult to talk about the fact that, in the work of the State Audit Office, which has been declared independent, the report that has come before us has been accepted, which is very beautiful, colorful, smelly, well bound, but the problem is that the operation is far from showing in practice what is described in this report. In particular, it is worth highlighting the recent SAO proposal to raise the wage ceiling for state leaders. It is quite obvious that the János Lázár people asked the State Audit Office for this because it was difficult for them to explain in themselves why they should now suddenly be radically opposed to their previous position, when they criticized the urisation and high state salaries of the last eight years. However, the SAO established the measure on the basis of its entirely independent professional proposal. By the way, this is a very good example of the role played by the State Audit Office today. Such investigations are, moreover, characterised by non-comprehensive financial and economic checks or by a pre-defined definition of the areas which the SAO intends to examine. I think it would be very long, and I probably wouldn't fit in the 15 minutes if I mentioned everything here. [[10.40]] I think it would be worth reading this report to the creators of the Radio Cabaret on Thursday, because it can be found in order to find findings that can be made a joke in a very understandable way. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the May Other for Politics, and I think that I will not be a great surprise, because unfortunately, this report cannot be accepted, because it is not possible to do so by the tests described or in practice. I think that, indeed, in the light of a democracy, independent institutions should do their job independently of the parties to government, but unfortunately, this is not happening today, and unfortunately, we will not be able to support the report. I would very much like the operation of the State Audit Office to take such a turn that next year I should not have to make a speech as a keynote speaker with such content, but should be able to say that, Mr President, this report is in order. Unfortunately, I cannot say this, because, Mr President, this report is not in order. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-06-14	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent Member who has applied for may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett.
u2019-11-06-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Welcome to the House, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is no exaggeration to say that the Court of Auditors is one of the institutions which, at the moment, are no longer serving Hungarian society, not the transparent and honest spending of public money, but the reigning power. Not only is it sad, but in the free world, the current functioning of the State Audit Office could not grow to any professional standard. Why do I say that? I am saying this because, in a rule of law, the principle of equal treatment of citizens is a minimum criterion, not only for equal treatment of citizens, but also for equal treatment between organisations. This is very far from the way the SAO operates in Hungary today. We see that not only organisations cannot be treated equally, but organisations themselves, as the system of national cooperation has progressed towards time, have not met equal treatment. I will give you an example, but decency requires that I thank Mr President for his letter, which, after last year's report, arrived at me as a substitute for the questions which were not answered orally. In this you wrote, Mr President, that it is not true that the organisations have not been notified of the tightening up of 2018, because each political party has received a letter that has said the new conditions as a kind of personal information. I am standing here before you as a representative of a party that has not received this notification and has not had the opportunity to attend the discussion on the new rules for political organisations. Of course, you can say it's our fault. What I see is that in most cases, the State Audit Office claims that everything is always the fault of the opposition parties; I will set an example. Mr President, Last year, according to my statement, the experience of the Hungarian Liberal Party in relation to the SAO investigation was that in previous investigations there was a collegial relationship between you and my colleagues, and they assumed our innocence, presumed that we were law-abiding citizens, and that we wanted to operate a law-abiding organization over the years. This was also shown by the fact that your colleagues helped my colleagues greatly if there was some sort of deficiency, they gave me all the help they could get. What I'm talking about is the early 2010s. However, as we progressed towards the election campaign last year, it was clear that your colleagues no longer approached opposition organisations and opposition politicians with the presumption of innocence, but with the presumption of guilt, they came simply to punish instead of control. The fact that they have made the set of conditions that a political party must grow up to meet the SAO's terms is unacceptable in itself, but the fact that they have not helped to identify any errors during the investigation and after that, they have not helped to fill the gap, as my fellow Member has already said, is quite incomprehensible, and I think that it cannot be explained here either before the Parliament. It can be said that all opposition parties have been punished as much as they have made their next period of management impossible. In the second half of 2018, when the opposition planned opposition actions and we were trying to figure out how we could add up the costs of mass movements in an honest way, paying bills, then the question was whether there was still an organization among us that does not have an annexation in its account. Mr President, I think that you may now see that not only theoretically, but practically absurdly, what has happened following the investigations of the State Audit Office on the opposition. I claim, however, that in the case of the governing parties, the State Audit Office does not raise any suspicions of illicit party financing, even though government communication financed by taxpayers' money is nothing more than an endless Fidesz-KDNP commercial, nothing more than the conscious misinformation of citizens by the taste of the current pro-government majority. I believe that if opposition parties could be punished for trying to save money or better manage the public money entrusted to them by the taxpayers or by the laws in force... I will say some of these specifics: the rent of the party office was too cheap; the rent of the car used by the party was lower than that assumed by the SAO as a market price; the party's accountants or legal staff served below the market price assumed by the SAO. You can't say from the world beyond Lajta, Mr President, a country where a political organisation is punished for trying to save taxpayers' money. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are political organisations here where we are talking about a few ten million forints of farming on an annual basis. Where is this compared to hundreds of billions of government communications? Where is this to be, that in the current municipal campaign, ex-Fidesz members who previously had a good relationship with the local Fidesz organization, and who were involved in war, that they had been blackmailed, signed, that they had supported the local Fidesz campaign with this much? We see these organisations, but what we don't see is when the State Audit Office intends to investigate these organisations' homes. Mr President, The other day, our opposition colleagues were struck by the NAV without warning and were searched for their homes. It is unacceptable in a rule of law to have a presumption of innocence instead of a presumption of guilt. It is unacceptable in a rule of law that the principle of equal treatment and the principle of equality before the law should not be used solely because some organisations disagree with the current policy of the government. What the SAO is serving at the moment is the system of national cooperation; the system of national cooperation, in which neither citizens nor civil society organisations nor political parties can exercise their rights if they do not come from the moonyard of the governing parties. Mr President, allow me, as an economist, as a fellow economist, I think that if nothing else, when such a power is released politically, then the profession must stop it, the lawyers, economists, the thinking people have a responsibility in not serving the conscious destruction of Hungarian society at the head of individual organisations, and that which, at the same time, will put us on the path for at least half a century, because this is what the past nine years have done to the Hungarians. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to what my fellow opposition Members have already called for: I am very pleased that the State Audit Office has seen what we have been saying to colleagues for a very long time that funding the health system is not sustainable at the moment. [[10.50]] What I would like to ask you, Mr President, is that if the State Audit Office of the State has established this ex post on our health system, how could it have happened that when planning budgets, it did not notice this when, by the way, we wanted to serve sustainability at least with our amendments. We have tried to draw the attention of pro-government colleagues to the fact that they will make a mistake if the budget for our health system is adopted in this form. This is such a serious professional error to say that, when planning the preliminary numbers, you did not realize what you saw a year and a half later, that a system of institutions is on the verge of the abyss, bringing serious billions to nothing in an opaque, unsustainable way, and putting patients in a particularly life-threatening situation, but we have also seen examples of people working in health care. Based on what I have said, Mr President, I cannot and do not intend to accept this report. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-06-16	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to President László Domokos.
u2019-11-06-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Among other things, Dániel Z. Kárpát put me in a very difficult position in the matter of not being political on the one hand and taking part in the parliamentary debate on the other. This is obviously a bilateral trap that Congressman claims to be the President of the SAO. Therefore, I am trying to try some of the issues in which I see a mistake, a misunderstanding, to say already in the course of the debate, because I hope that this debate will guide it in the right direction, make it meaningful. And there have been speeches that have been clearly political on your part, and I will leave the evaluation to the end of them, because I do not want to influence the debate politically. Is this going to work? This is not easy, because we have seen that every topic, a district, a city, an institution has control, who has a political issue, who has a professional issue. There are times when no one listens to a question before the elections, and after the elections, a district, area, nationality, local government, institution or company is suddenly stressed. There have been a number of comments in which I must say that you are all concerned with the SAO's debate, because you and even the system-shifting fathers who participated in the roundtable negotiations decided not to be the executive, not the judicial authority, but to have the Court of Auditors carry out both the control of the parties and the conduct of the elections, as well as the controls on the campaign. You know very well, because I quoted in my speech that international organisations were not satisfied with this, and you and a lot of others were very critical of the rule of law before and after 2010 in the four to five years of very strong criticism of how the parties worked, how the campaign was organised. But in my memory, even in the previous period, this was the subject of debate, even in international territory. This is the GRECO organisation, which operates alongside the Council of Europe, which is a group of countries against corruption, which issued an assessment on this issue and made specific recommendations, which I am not going to elaborate on, and in my speech the Parliament adopted in 2013 with consideration for significant amendments. I know that there was no five-, six- or seven-partisan agreement, and now I don't know how many independent parties are involved or involved, but, after all, it was accepted by the two-thirds of them at the time. This obviously included the issue of not only not accepting it, but the party presidents did not seem to draw the attention of their own economic leaders to the fact that, for example, the illicit support system or the press accounting system mentioned accounting, car, poster, rent, I don't know what was going on here. It was an international recommendation to bring this issue to the table. I would like to point out that we have sensed this. We first sent a letter of information with the changes, and then, listening to you last year, this year we also discussed the parties in Parliament. And they also sent me in this respect to thank the party presidents for their contribution to their economic leaders, and we have been able to look at the amount of debate that is mostly due to the change of legislation. I thought this would be the case, as we are still checking most of the parties in accordance with mandatory law every two years. So it's not the SAO's decision. Several people named me that it was my decision to check up on you. Yes, I had to mark this in advance in the inspection plan, but these checks have to be carried out every two years according to the law. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the opposition parties are talking about the beginning of 2018, but I would like to point out that during the campaign period, which Hungarian law officially considers to be a campaign, the SAO did not publish a report either in 18 or in 19 on the municipalities involved in the campaign, or on the government, although certain elements of the government were very difficult to contain in 18 as reports concerning the government were published in 18. However, no report was published on parties or party foundations during the official period of the campaign, as was the case during previous periods and even during the period of my predecessors. That's what we've been trying to do as much as possible. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] As a result, I have to say that, in 18 years, the disclosure of the opposition party's control experience influenced it; otherwise, not a few of the parties' communication brought it to the public. I don't think the president of the SAO should appreciate that. The SAO had a reaction to about every hundredth news. So, in the findings of the campaign's follow-up, your mistakes, which the SAO has revealed, have not been enlarged by the SAO, and I may even say that it is not even the government. I went over the analysis of who was communicating in this, who stood up, who came to the SAO, and I could list it. They created the performance, if you will, the scandal, so that the media could deal with it. This was an integral part of the campaign period. I don't want to judge you, I don't want to commend you, I just want to state as a fact that you did. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Fidesz and KDNP, the governing parties, were also checked before the elections in the European Union, but the report on them was not published during the campaign period, since, in line with the two-year time cycle, they were then in the control area and the reports were published on them. During the discussions and in the letters sent out, we drew attention to the fact that the SAO will check all political actors with the same standards. Let me draw attention to one element of this, which was a very typical mistake after the 2014 amendment: the parties themselves did not even realize that it was a change of legislation. By the way, the law decrees that if and if the party does not estimate the aid itself, it does not assess its market value, then it requires the SAO to determine it. So we're missing a link here, the responsibility of the checkers, which should have been shown and presented to them. They didn't, and it was a typical mistake. I'm sorry, I wasn't prepared to the extent that this was exactly how each party was, but it was a general feature. And, as I hear, there will be problems in this regard, because not all parties in advance have such calculated donations or various orders or services, as the independent Member has said, although, as I have heard, she has spoken about the party's issue, that they have negotiated more favourable terms. [[11.00]] I don't know what to do with that. According to the law, market charges have to be established. This is not the place to make a deal, but, for example, a public donation is the framework for giving a discount; it gives money to a given organization in a positive way, it is ordered by law. Excuse me, I must say that this has been checked, and almost all party presidents and economic leaders have apparently stumbled on this issue. We didn't enlarge that question. The MSZP representative, surprisingly to me, told me about this two weeks ago, and the party president did not object to this; they admitted it, paid it. The MSZP was one of the parties that cooperated in this. So he accepted the violation and cooperated in order to comply with the law. I don't want to understand now, if you don't mind how all of a sudden the parties are solidaritying with each other in this matter, but it wasn't equal, it wasn't the same in proportion to the budget, it wasn't the nature of the errors. I am talking about this now, and I looked back until 2010 at the checks that were carried out, and the period that the independent congresswoman recalled, and the period that changed the party law, and I am reading on the line, everyone can read that I don't want to read it by party, if you don't mind, because you've read specific accounting material here, I could read it, too, but I can tell you that you didn't comply with the legislative requirements in 13-14, 15-16, 10-11, 11-12. The regularity environment of the parties has not improved from one year to the next. In fact, there were times when, for example, the President of DK did not respond to the 15-day observation, he did not say anything. There were times like this in the reports. Well, obviously that wasn't a political campaign thing or a subject. I'd say everyone seems to be using the SAO party and campaign control thing to question our independence. Until 14:00, that wasn't the issue. When the law was adopted in accordance with international recommendations and a more acceptable legal environment was established in Hungary, the SAO became the focus of the attacks, which indeed peaked in the previous control of Jobbik. We're not talking about 2018, we're talking about the management of 15-16. But what we need to see is that the legislation has created a new legislative environment, an internationally accepted equal opportunities environment, and the SAO has also taken control of the decision that we have indicated not to place the right to set prices on the SAO, because it is not the most appropriate organisation to do so. There is an authority in Hungary, and here was the problem that has to be resolved, it is true that it belongs to the executive authority, the tax office, which has to act on its own initiative if they do not issue an invoice according to the market price. But it's a tax procedure, not a matter of the SAO. That is why the legislators have come up with the solution that you must estimate, calculate, and present this to the SAO, this estimate. That's what caused the contradictions that obviously your economic leaders or a lot of them didn't want to take on this responsibility. So they didn't help you standing next to your president. That's what we've been trying to do this year, give them information before we wrote the report before we asked for data. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to decline the fact that we're suddenly gonna fall on someone, even a party, and we're gonna need data in five days. I have been introducing that system for years, especially since we ask for it on an IT basis, although I am indicating that it is a mistake, Mr Varju said that data can only be transmitted electronically. That's not true. Read the letter in which we inform you that, if possible, you should help us to report it electronically, but if not, and then physically, our colleagues will go out and photocopy and scan the documents you give us, or we will look at the amount of documents on the site. So there's no such drill. Your economic manager may have told you this, but read the letter, we have no such requirement or requirement. That you wanted to live up to that, thank you. Because it's right that they tried in the digital age, not by cutting down trees, destroying forests, copying papers by hundreds or thousands, handing them over, but electronically. After all, most of their accounts are electronic, since most of the accounting systems in today's world work with electronic invoices, books and less paper. But I can see that there is an organization, in the local government sphere, also in the non-state human sphere, obviously also in parties, where the operation of a digital, electronic version of an accounting system is even a special cost and burden. I wanted to say that we consider the parties as partners, including in the campaign, and we want you to be legitimists. I don't need to listen to this for years, otherwise it's unjustified, as if we were wrong when your accountants didn't do the right thing, your party presidents didn't take into account the changed accounting law. They're signing the report. But some people didn't even sign the report, dear congressman. I hear you're not well-informed on this subject. You need to know that this is common, we need to work together between the checkers and the inspection body. In this, I hope we can work together in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-06-18	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of you, Mr President, and to welcome all the Members of the State Audit Office, with special respect to the Vice-President. We'll get back to work. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-06-19	Mr President, Dear House, Mr President, perhaps you cannot accuse me of losing my restraint during this debate. I'm still trying to show restraint, and I'm trying to show you and everyone else... because if we really want to have a professional debate here, then these ratings don't necessarily fit. With regard to the cooperation of the parties, Mr President, I understand, and you have the right to refer to the limitation of your activities by legislation. When you ask for information from someone and those involved present this data from the first to the last, they bring it to you, to the SAO, I can even accept that you do not want to participate in a performance, but I beg you to open the gates, to those who present to you what you have asked for. The reason why your argument cannot be accepted is that if there are indeed legislative shortcomings that have made it impossible to do so, you can initiate a change in the legislation concerned. That is not for you to decide, of course, for Parliament to argue and decide. But then take the initiative to change what needs to change. Mr. President. I'm sorry, but when you say that your debts to Jobbik Magyar Posta and the NAV, that these debts are illegal party financing, stop the world! If this opinion is imposed on you by legislation, that legislation is wrong. Then let's argue about how to change. You can't do this with a shrug. The SAO becomes a political actor by contributing to the coup d'état of Hungary's strongest opposition party. It's a billion-dollar fine, Mr. President. I do not dispute that you want to comply with and comply with the legislation that sets out the framework. But then let's open the debate that these frameworks are good. I am a partner for a substantive debate, but do not give their names to be promoted by the Government of Hungary to become a political club, because this is unworthy of both the organization and its history, and I do not think it points forward in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-06-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Anett Vengeance is next. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-06-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. There is no debate between us that transparent operation, the current transparency, is a duty for everyone. I don't just mean when we're looking at political actors or NGOs. We all have an interest in following the law, either at individual or group level. So I completely agree with that, and I think it may not be necessary to explain that colleagues agree with this. What I myself criticize is the failure to enforce the principle of equal treatment. We did not see any punishments being imposed in the benches of Fidesz or KDNP. [[11.10]] I know you're surprised at what I'm saying right now, but what I've listed when you say that our posters, because we were able to negotiate a discount on the market, so that we can legally post posters, according to your organization, is a prohibited party funding; but it is not forbidden to party financing that government communication with taxpayers' money, as I mentioned in my previous speech, is an endless Fidesz-KDNP commercial, which is practically inevitable when someone, let's say, can only watch public service channels on television. But I'm going to go on with the practical questions. If you ask us not to accept, say, a discount price when we ask you to compete with the poster companies and say that we choose the best bid, was it best at the moment that the SAO punishes an organization? But I'll go further: if we can rent, say, a car, we can fill out two papers with the small businessman, which means that he rented the vehicle at market prices and otherwise gave a donation? Shall we lie to you? I'd like to ask you that. Thank you for your patience.
u2019-11-06-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Zsolt Gréczy is coming from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-06-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There is a fundamental conceptual problem here. The reason for this incredible mistrust is, among other things, because the President of the SAO is not considered independent by the opposition voters' camp, and there are more of them than pro-government voters. They see you as an ex-Fidesz member of the state secretary of an ex-Orbán government. István Hagelmayer, the first president of the SAO, was not a party soldier, but your appointment fits exactly in the same chain as when József Szájer's wife becomes a constitutional judge when former Fidesz candidate Péter Polt becomes the chief prosecutor. So, in Hungarian, independent institutions have lost their independence. But I can also give you an example of concrete operation. What should we consider potato distribution when Fidesz MEPs divide potatoes into sacks? Shouldn't they be punished for what it's made of? Trucks delivered the potatoes to Budapest. How was it financed? Who financed it? Isn't it forbidden to fund parties when Viktor Orbán talks in front of the House of Terror and people are being taken off the bus of the Puskás Academy who come to the audience? Isn't that forbidden party funding? ! At the same time, when the Democratic Coalition's accounts are burned in a fire, the State Audit Office does not help it, either, the State Audit Office demands that the accounts which, by the way, are held by the State Audit Office be replaced by the accounts that have been submitted earlier, but do not accept them by the State Audit Office, but obliges DK to somehow replace what has been burned while you have it. We do not consider this to be a fair and fair procedure. Basically, the problem is that the Orbán system has occupied independent institutions with party soldiers, and this results in a fundamental mistrust, so all party punishments make it look like you're actually pulling the Orbán whip. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-06-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. F Mr Sándor Kovács from the Fidesz Group is next for two minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-06-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, In the beginning, I also declare that I do not like or like the investigations of the State Audit Office either, because unlike Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, I came from the local government and spent 20 years in the municipal and county municipalities, and a state audit was a serious torture in any period, and it was quite tough professionally. All the accountants, all the officials were afraid of the State Audit Office's investigation, and I don't remember any investigation where the State Audit Office didn't make any findings with any of the municipalities. Therefore, the State Audit Office acts strictly with all municipalities, with all investigations. Mr. Secretary of State Z. Kárpát told Daniel not to engage. Maybe he said it because he's a professional who's good at the business. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: How brave you have become! The president's ringing the bell.]] When you make such a suggestion that the data of the KSH is not good, but the inflation, unemployment and other findings that you have expressed, based on your intuition, would be good... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Based on intuition?! Man, it's a profession! Get ready or don't say anything. The president's ringing the bell.]] I listened to you, Congressman. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. Noise in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] The data would be good... that unemployment is calculated differently than 2-3-4-5 or 10 years ago, when GDP data is calculated differently, then a new professional concept should be provided, not based on agreed standards, as it was years ago. If you want to introduce a new method, put it forward. The opposition parties are partly right, and it may be necessary to introduce that if the tax authority punishes someone, everyone should be punished if a policeman stops someone for speeding, not just the speedster should be punished, but everyone should be punished. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] also those who comply with the rules, who comply with the necessary and appropriate legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Did you have to agree to this debate? You're very outsider.]]
u2019-11-06-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. That concludes the two-minute speeches. Now we're going to have proper speeches. Mr László Domokos, Member [[Expansion, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] I'm sorry, I'm speaking to President László Domokos. Excuse me.
u2019-11-06-27	I represent the Court of Auditors, and I hope it's strong enough, so...
u2019-11-06-28	That's right!
u2019-11-06-29	... I have to say this because, in fact, I have been monitoring the parties and the campaign for years, and even since I've been president, I'm not doing the same thing that you've been talking about right now. I handed him over to the secretary-general, he was the one who was acting, and the President of the SAO was not in this sense involved in the management of the specific transaction. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: It doesn't matter!]] Oh, that doesn't matter? Then I do not understand why it is a problem that, following the laws, the President of the SAO has been trusted by the Parliament, and contrary to the laws, what you say, the legal appointment condition of the SAO was without amendment. After ten years, it's unworthy of me to bring that up. It's unworthy of me to raise it. It has nothing to do with the operation of an organization that presents its 18th activity. However, it has to do with the fact that you are controlled, and it is likely that there will continue to be problems. I hope not. I did everything I could, I ordered what was up to me to give you information. I have no obligation to explain the change of laws to anyone, to introduce them, but I'm telling you, the parties have been tested, my dear Anett Bősz, and they've even downloaded it. I checked the stats, they downloaded dozens of them. Therefore, after the consultation, we drew attention to the most important legislative and substantive issues. There's a way to fill this out today, and that's to prepare for any kind of inspection at all times. Excuse me, so if you've made a mistake, I'm sorry, obviously, it's very difficult to admit. I thought that we would not discuss the issue of the control of individual parties as stakeholders, and I would not agree to this, but I must speak about the DK speech, because this is a ongoing debate, which they seem to be trying to do for communication and influence purposes. By the way, lawyers do this quite often when there is a judicial or tax procedure. The SAO itself is not like this, I must say, like any other authority, but let us make one record: the issue of documentation is very clearly regulated by the law. On the one hand, the Accounting Act states that all economic processes must be documented, documented in the present time, and, my dear fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian, cannot be replaced afterwards. We asked for the documents at a specific time, their president appointed the reporting agent, and he did not provide data either by letter or personally. And one more thing is very important. According to the law, the SAO must look for documents at the headquarters. DK did not have its seat destroyed or destroyed, but there was damage. According to the law, the registered office is not that place. But I don't want to argue about it here, I say it again, but I can see that there's a problem with headquarters, not with you, with others. Some people don't even know where they're based. There are places where her mom goes out to the I don't know which organization she's checked out, that she's not authorized to take the letter from us, but otherwise it's written in the party's document, this mother's place of residence. Excuse me. So I suppose you would also like order to have a serious parliament of serious parties in a serious country. [[11.20]] And since we've been entrusted with this... I didn't ask for it, I didn't get it, so it's been 30 years, and you thought so at the round table, even Mr. Nikos thought so then, I understand. And international influence, integration with obvious legislation, is a constant burden for Parliament. He was also looking for an answer in the then majority of 13, changing the law. We're better suited to international directions. Please be partners so that Hungary's corruption charges are reduced, because your inappropriate party and campaign clearance is part of the picture of the entire country. There the whole country is no longer classified as Fidesz or the government or parliament or the SAO. Everyone, add yours. I didn't say it was perfect. Someone said I made a victory statement in the accounts. That's not true. Every year I've told you where the problems are, where the risks are. I told them how many letters we wrote, how many irregularities we had. I will respond when they said what a contradiction is about the few hundred locations we have selected on a risk basis, how many errors there are, but the budget for the closure of the budget of 20 000 billion has 14 thousand public money users, and the overall picture is an improved picture. It's a matter of proportions. The Statistical Office also works according to international methods. There are specific cases that need to be distinguished, and there are general assessments, so to speak, at macro-economic or social level. Anyone who has studied on this subject, even as an economist, knows that macro- and micro-sensing can contradict each other. Okay, I don't want to get involved in this, because there's a lot of people here who might think it's personal, if I start to explain this better, but the point is that we didn't find any fault in closing accounts, and we didn't ask for it, and we didn't take action. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are not the executive power. We don't have an opportunity to act as SAO president instead of a leader. He's got coercion, pressure training, incentives. In accordance with an international recommendation, it was also necessary to act with regard to the parties, as well as with regard to the campaign. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is still the possibility of amendments to the campaign law, that Parliament can always do, and that is where our recommendation is. This does not include the fact that private individuals, international organisations, social media, private sponsors are obliged to pass this through the party's budget or management processes. That's not what the law says. So if, I don't know, any congressman's neighbor decides to put your poster on his doorstep, it's political activity, but not party political activity, not campaign activity. At least our control doesn't cover that, because the law doesn't give us a chance in that direction. The SAO shall always check on the basis of the report. So if the potatoes aren't in the report, they're placed outside. If you consider this to be a crime, the SAO is not the determining body, you should go to the authorities. If you see someone saying that they sold property cheaper or more expensive than one municipality, there's an official body investigating this, by the way, from the tax site. Well, they'll see. I don't know if you bought or sold property. Several times after that, the IRS will check before levying the levy, and if it finds lawlessness, it will act. So this one has an organization. I don't know, the SAO obviously doesn't control all ten thousand billion annual transactions, but it doesn't just have to be the SAO's control system, because those three lines of defense... I don't tell you your detailed professional history. There are tens of thousands of inspectors in Hungary. In fact, if we include the entire staff of the IRS, the Treasury, the National Bank, the SAO and internal auditors, there are nearly 40,000 such inspectors. They all work to comply with the legislation, and a lot of people really don't comply with the legislation. Yeah, even the police are the same category. They are here to warn, punish, punish or punish these people who have been deceived or who do not follow the law. That's not the SAO. This is all assigned to the executive power; the National Bank is a different matter and the banks are controlled by the independent National Bank. So I want to say it again because it has come up several times: government communication is neither part of the party law nor part of the Court's audit of campaign funding in Hungary, according to the campaign law. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But that's how it works!]] I am not arguing that it is not a campaign, or whether it affects political views or not, just once again, we would like to do so legally. And you're telling us to look at something that the law doesn't. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But then initiate a bill.]] I'll give you the floor, I suppose, if you'll ask. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes, I will!]] I would like to point out that the SAO is biased according to the Constitution. That's what I'm gonna do, because there was a charge like that. Árpád Kovács made several speeches here, and he asked that public financial rules be established within the constitutional framework. This was voted into the Fundamental Law by two thirds of the year, and there are many rules in the Fundamental Law which, if you like, did not give the SAO a completely neutral view, but, for example, gave the SAO a clear set of values that the deficit was bad, the less the deficit, the more the debt would be reduced. It's a value choice, not all economists agree. Not all experts agree with him, he is a state-theoretical man, and certainly not, who is always in government, because he wants to give a wider space. That is why I praised, if you like, the government, that at least it did not try to make a bigger deficit, and not just as much, 0.1 percent, but when the economy had the opportunity, the debt decreased by several percentage points. The Fundamental Law sets this standard for the Court of Auditors. That's what I'm asking you to understand. The other, more than one, indicated what a biased concept a well-managed state is. I'd like to point out that it's in the Court of Auditors Act. When Parliament decided that the country was in trouble and that the Budget Council and the President of the Court of Auditors should be present in the Council, it became clear that there was also a need for an advisory, supportive role, because I agree, it is very bad for all the Presidents of the Court of Auditors in each country when a country's budget collapses in his hands. And I'm not updating what year and under which president this happened in Hungary. I'm glad; I may be lucky, maybe the operation of the Fiscal Council, maybe the discipline of the government, everyone can say it in their own taste, but Hungary, since I am president, is not in that position. There were border accidents there, around 11-12 or 13, when we came out of the debt rules, in 16 when the EU money suddenly ran out, and there was no additional push. These were high risks, but overall towards the promotion of a well-managed state. The law doesn't say that it is, and the SAO is asking for it, but every proposal that you make, what it affects, try to promote it. And that can be said with pro-government bias, but I could say that the commitment to the country, the intentions of the majority of the country in Parliament, the government, are these, and since the law has ordered us to do so, not with foreign considerations, not with creditors' considerations, not with investor considerations, or with any other aspect, but only with the reduction of the country's economic independence, this has given us a set of values. It gave me a commitment. In addition, I was personally included in the Budget Council as president, ex officio. Not personally, I was put into this and ordered by the law to be bound by the Court of Auditors to provide support in this, as well as by the Budget Council. That's why we're preparing the analysis, which you're quoting, which we've described elsewhere in health care. So I believe that national risks have never been defined by the SAO to this extent over the past four years, as my colleagues have done in recent years. The president of the SAO didn't do it anyway, so I'm just gonna let him go public. My colleagues' professional convictions are reflected in the analyses that you have welcomed and quoted. [[11.30]] I think it's right, I see everyone reading the SAO's reports, reading the SAO's analyses, communication, and responding. I'm not mad at you. I don't consider this personal. Everyone in their own chair tries their own truth the most effectively, the way they've learned it, the way they think, to enforce it. It is accepted by the President of the SAO: we are trying to benefit the country from the perspective of the Constitution, constitutional regulations. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-06-30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There will be regular speeches. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-06-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was almost ready to rely on a two-minute speech, given that today's debate on the SAO report seems to have transformed into a debate on the settlement of parties, which, I think, is far from what we have here. But it's not new. I must say that when I think about it, and that's what I've been thinking about, even the thoughts that are meant to be eternal, when it comes to politics, they become invalid. We used to say that everything is moving, everything is changing, except in politics the thinking of politicians. As early as 1848, when it first came to the idea that Hungary would have an independent government and that financial issues had to be dealt with, someone suggested in a reminder that there was also a need for control solutions, because from where public money was flowing out, it had to be checked. There were some opponents, too, because they said, "Okay, okay," but we're leaving now, so if we start by checking ourselves out here, then where do we get to, there won't be any results. And that part didn't change much, because in 1870, when the predecessor of the SAO was formed, the thing started with the opposition having a slight flaw somewhere in Transylvania around a larger forest. Now, this situation has come before the SAO, the SAO has started to examine it, it has been taken very badly, and the press at the time, in which it was a liberal overweight, did not say that at the moment, but, as it was for a long time in Hungary, attacked the SAO very strongly at that time. But it was settled, because it soon turned out that Lónyay was also interested in this particular forest matter, and the SAO was not lazy, and he also found out that there was some connection here. Some say that it may not be so, that Lónyay did not fall into the crisis that broke out between 71 and 73, but rather into this forest. Therefore, I think that when we talk about the SAO, about the history of the SAO, or even about its present, we should assess this with the proper weight. I believe, and here I am arguing with the President, that neither the round table nor the Parliament made the wrong choice when it thought that this supreme control body should be assigned to the Parliament. Let's just think about how this happened before, a long time ago. Every anomaly committed in an election was investigated by the Parliament itself and by a parliamentary committee, naturally always in the best way for the government side. That is why an independent organisation had to be set up, and I believe that the functioning of the independent body cannot be ignored. This independent body should continue to work in the future to make it as acceptable as possible. I would like to talk a little bit more about the fact that what the President and the President have put forward is a very nice, colourful list of where and how the SAO is making use of the work that the SAO is doing. These are very good, and I would like to highlight three of them and perhaps add one. It is true that one of the most important areas is the control of municipalities, where the municipalities, with a very high degree of autonomy and I hope, will continue to work and work, and therefore there is obviously a great deal of influence, local influence. This monitoring must therefore be very firm and very clear, but the rules must also be so. Therefore, when the President is talking about the whole bouquet that I would like to talk about, it is true that some legislative shortcomings can prevent either an effective investigation or compliance with obligations, I must agree with that. I have to give you my own example. For us small farmers, it was extremely painful that all the things that had been gathered behind the party in a long, one and a half, almost two decades, were collected fairly, fairly, quite simply. And it wasn't clear what the solution was, because there were legislative shortcomings and shortcomings. I had to admit, after all, that, yes, there were legislative shortcomings and shortcomings that should not have happened. If we see it now and I turn back here again for a moment to see when legislation needs to be drawn up, that there is such a disability, then this must be indicated. It is not enough to say the pain and the grievances from the opposition side here, but if you do complain that, for example, reports appear in such a way as may already take place in the middle of the campaign, then make a legislative proposal on how long and when to present the test results that may affect the party's functioning and effectiveness. Well, that's what I see in you, but you're gonna have to put that up. It's not enough to run into the president of the SAO and tell them why they did it because they acted legally. This must be presented and formulated, and Parliament must consider it. I said that the examination of the municipalities is extremely important. I very much agree with the same name and, therefore, I am particularly honored to be able to refer to it with my fellow Member, Mr F Kovács, is it true that when inspectors appear in a municipality, it doesn't matter, with all due respect, whether it is pro-government or opposition, it always brings something that should be feared? Is everything okay? I'm not sure, I'm not sure at all, and it might come out now. And I think it should stay that way. This posture has to be against control, because if you don't have it, then this whole check is pointless. At the same time, I need to refer the regulators here and again to the clear, to be clear, to be able to meet them, and where these regulators are incomplete, they must be replaced. The case of the parties is one of the most delicate areas, and I told you about it before. I would like to reiterate now that the situation is particularly difficult in terms of parties, and I dare say that I, who am struggling with a small political organisation, dare to say that it is clear, because the situation has changed. We've had a situation in the last 20 years that we didn't really count on 20 years ago. There was a situation where, in fact, the campaign would now require huge amounts of money to get everyone everywhere. It's a matter of fact. It is very difficult for the parties to comply and remain within them. Therefore, where we see a gap, where we see a legal gap, we have to replace them, we have to turn back here again, we have to replace them, and we have to clear the regulators, we have to make them clear. The only way to really help the SAO itself is to give the SAO handlers that, if implemented, will be unattractive. I think that's what needs to be done clearly. And the third one that hasn't been mentioned today is a question of foundations. After an undisputed enrichment has taken place in the country where very significant capital forces have appeared in the private hands, the demands for foundations will already appear strongly now and the following. The foundations in the capital society know this very well for two purposes. One of them: which are indeed some kind of human rights, guaranteeing and serving some kind of helpfulness, is a very fair, good opportunity for capital, and use it less often. However, there are even more opportunities within the foundations which, in a hidden way, are already serving political goals, which are already trying to achieve completely different goals, goals that they cannot implement openly, directly because of their capital and capitalism. You have to be very careful here. [[11.40]] And if the SAO detects that there are legislative gaps and shortcomings, then it must be indicated. They must never forget that they are an independent body subject only to the legislation and to this House, nowhere else. It is therefore clear that they must do what is necessary to ensure that this House adopts the rules that apply here too. And finally, which was also not mentioned, and I think that it will be one of the very serious challenges of the coming times, it is clear that the money that has been included in the foundations, which remains public money, is also public money. What about the money that comes out, not as support, but as the money that we owe from the Union? I wonder what kind of money they're gonna make if they go out there. 'Cause when they come in here, they're gonna be public money, and they're gonna be ours. And if they become public money and flood, then what will they be? Is this private money, just like that, without a transition? Or, if it is not private money, but it preserves its public money character, at least in certain formations, I think it is, then the regulation of these must be achieved. Otherwise, there will be another confusion, and it is not that the opposition will say that there is another fierce corruption situation here again. It is not that, but that it is necessary to see in advance that certain situations arise, and these situations must be resolved, because it is not the good legislator who, after the house is on fire, will bring a regulator to put out the fire. The good legislator is that if you think ahead, you can see the possibilities, and from the possibilities, you can conclude what legislation this society will need. That's what you need to know. And in these grips, the SAO can do a lot of good with its experience, with everything that has been acquired in recent years; it can help with many kinds of data and opportunities. And it is also his job, because it is clear to me that if we, this House, have such a control body, then it is our duty to use it in a way that serves the aims of the community to the farthest. I support the proposal, by the way. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Anett Bősz applaud.]]
u2019-11-06-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group, Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea, would like to take your turn.
u2019-11-06-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would argue in my speech that I accept what is in the report. I accept that you want what you have in your report to believe in the society that authorized you to do what you do. I take it from the point that what you really described there in colourful smell is believed and do, and I would like to share some of these issues with Mr President and my fellow Members. In the oral exposé, too, Mr President pointed out that the SAO would like to achieve a more financial-conscious society, which is a very appropriate effort. I think that there is a 15-year delay in this regard, since... [[For signal:]] Or 30, my colleague here says, because the madness of currency lending could not have happened. But then, I must say to you, you were not in the Chamber, the other day, Secretary of State Katalin Novák spoke about the details of the family protection action plan to one of the opposition representatives, and the following sentence left your mouth: you are very ill aware that the opposition representative, the minimum wage couple, will be given the CSOK at your request, and it is not true that only those with high incomes may have been DK representatives, to someone's question. The reason I was sick at this time is that it is extremely contrary to your idea of a finance-conscious society, because giving a loan of the magnitude of 10 million to people with minimum wage is not certain that the number of children will be born, because we hope that each of them will have at least three children and will not have to be repaid, but it is also possible that it will not happen, because it is not yet possible to control biology, it is still above us and not above us. This is an important issue because, indeed, the opposition rightly says on this issue, for example, that it only helps the richer. The Secretary of State responded to this, not to the minimum wage, but to the fact that it was not a grant, but a loan, was it not? And the craziness in a loan is the kind of craziness that the Feds were already involved in, what was it, typically? People with minimum wages were financed almost 100 percent of their housing purchases, and they were trapped in this trap. In this regard, I would therefore like to say to this report that if the SAO's real ambition is to achieve the more conscious financial conditions of society, then do it, too, and I must say that this is also missing from the material, because although information, support, legislative proposals are being made, and the rest of the SAO's relations with the government, then please do not come up with such situations, because only in order to gain a momentary political advantage, either on one side or on the other, an entire society is being used for it, and perhaps to push us into a situation that we do not want to have this society involved again. The following is: public funds control, state assets, municipal property control and parties. There is no such thing in the world that the State Audit Office can control the spending of parties that comes from private assets and donations. There is no such thing in the world, except Hungary. And it cannot be achieved that, during an inspection, the representative of a party can say: "But, please, I spent this spending on private donations; what the state has given me is the quota spent on donations, and here it is. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And basically, what does the source of private donations have to do with public spending? This is only important because you write very richly in this report about how you are trying to support the legislative work of Parliament and the Government. I think that if there is something, we should talk about this, for example, with regard to the SAO and the parties, so that they no longer make us angry, but we really should not interfere in private relations. So, with all due respect, Mr President of the SAO, I would like to ask you to do this, because since you have a strong enough influence in the ruling parties, and this great trust is likely to come from this towards you, you should start talking about it, because I have actually looked at a lot of countries, but there is no such thing as this. He says that the quality of their controls or the ability to control them has not changed over the years, and that my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács, or my fellow Member Mr Sándor F Kovács, says that indeed, when the SAO appeared, there was such serious work and how disciplined it must be. I can tell you one thing. I've lived through eight state-government organizations as a lawyer under SAO control. So I can tell you what happened ten years ago, fifteen years ago, five years ago, and, say, two years ago. So I basically assisted through these kind of checks. I have to say, he's changed remarkably, and I'll tell you how he's changed. While personal briefings were held three to four years ago on what to pay attention to; errors detected in the certification system, which the SAO experienced during the audits, were informed in detail by economic experts or financial professionals who carried out these activities in the organizations. If you had a question from a representative of an organization because you didn't know if you were doing the right thing, whether you were doing the right thing, you wrote an e-mail to the relevant mentor who did this at the SAO and got correct answers. So there was an interactivity between the organisations and the SAO, which, I have to say, even though it was really demanding for a check, communication and information were possible during the period between the checks and even during the checks. [[11.50]] In fact, there was an opportunity, of course, to correct even there, under control, if it was a simple administrative error. And I have to say, there's been a huge change in the last three or four years, so it's not the mentality, it's not the style that's been going on in the last few years. It would have been better if it had been, because, as strange as it is, the confidence of society towards the SAO comes from the fact that it is a control body, but it has always done this in a very fair and supportive manner. That's what's in all of us who's ever met an SAO audit. There is a very interesting comment in the report in the chapter on control programmes: our task is to control the measures taken to raise people below the poverty line. I apologize, but it's almost cynical. I'd like to ask what's going on with the Roma programme's money, because it is, for example, [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Bravo! A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]] 1.6 billion, if I remember correctly, to raise our society below the poverty line by means of a work programme. What about that? Or, for example, what about the issue of employment for injured people? Those who have ever met with such organisations, which employ injured people, at least to feel the need for society, do their job in such unfair and unfair circumstances that if the SAO's task is indeed on its flag, then, Mr President, they should move very quickly and very quickly eliminate the unworthy and unfair processes and relations that are programmes for raising society in the poor queue, because it is really terrible, which is abuse in these areas. But here's another thing: the subject of people living below the poverty line, the reduction of the rent. Mr President, did you consider from the SAO's point of view that 80 percent of the savings generated by the reduction in overhead were made in 20 percent of society? Mr President, if, according to the report, you are sensitive to the fact that social differences are not being generated by state measures, I would like to ask with respect that, after the reduction of the rent has been taking place for six years, where is the SAO control or research programme in which you would have been able to show that the reduction in the rent did not fulfill the expectations attached to it, because I am already apologizing, but the woman in the 80-soul village who takes water from the well and fires woods how much she has received from this reduction, but that is the II. The palace on the Rose Hill in the district, where the driveway is heated with electricity, well, that was very good with the reduction of the rent, and then I'm not talking about the lie of reducing the rent in the way it is in general. So if you have such an explicit program, well, this subject lies on the street. I'd like the SAO, since you've put this on your flag so much, please take care of that. The next question is the Danube Arena. He's lying on the street, too. Mr President, you have reported in this report how the control system itself, target control, draft, audit programme, when, what. I will certainly not say anything new to you, that, for example, during the inspection of our party during previous years, the legal transactions of that year were introduced into the audit programme, and we were thus able to fine 640 million. So it wasn't the planned audit that provided the basis for this, it was the poster purchase story of that year. Then I would just like to ask you, because the Danube Arena has been built for some time, because the World Championship has been going on for two years, the following amounts have been known so far: 8 billion, 14 billion, 49 billion, 130 billion and 140 billion. So that's all we've heard from the state officials. I would like to ask you that if a party was able to examine in a given year, not due to a given year's legal transaction related to the control, then let us tell you that, after the audit programme of the Danube Arena, it was necessary to be part of the control programme of the Danube Arena, just because these twelve times the numbers were clear in 2017 as the World Championship was that year where the control programme of your Danube Arena was, and then I would like to say that days ago it was revealed that although it was our Olympic champion, our excellence, the public money was public money for everyone, and that public property could be used for free. Now, this is also an SAO control issue. These are important, Mr President, because social justice is expected of all of us by the members of our people, and if, in contrast to the SAO, as described in this report, the confidence of society is great, then they should also serve by actually carrying out a target check on issues of such public interest, and showing society that they are actually protecting public money. I would like to indicate that the infrastructure of the Kazan water vb in Russia cost only HUF 16 billion, so they were so much better. I would like to talk about one more issue, and this is the spending of the Prime Minister's Office and its associated troops. This 1200 billion-dollar team, at least in the implementation of the 2018 Budget Act, can be seen as having managed to spend it. 1200 billion is one and a half times the annual funding of the entire municipal organisation, and two are seven weeks old. the budgetary financing of the whole EMMI organisational system. This is important because what we see when we look at the implementation of the budget law is that, under these three organisations, there is an amazing amount of public money going on, and what we actually see is very little of the benefit of it, of what new things are produced or of what value it is that society can have, in fact, these three organisations are a stream of money. I think that if, for example, the SAO thought that he was so strongly above the control of public funds, that it is possible that these three organisations could manage with such enormous public money, and that there is no way to show any sense or usefulness of this, we can only see that government propaganda, we see that it is constantly Fidesz-propaganda, that it is constantly the public procurement aid of friends' organisations that these three organisations are doing, and that they consume this huge public money. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-06-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Dialogue Group, Mr Bence Tordai, Member of the Parliament, is next. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dumbass President! Dear Citizens in front of the screens! Let me summarise very briefly the position of the Dialogue on the State Audit Office's report in relation to the importance and scope of the subject. The first thought is equity, because I must forgive you in advance that, despite all the criticism to be given later, it is very important that a lot of very prepared and conscientious workers at the State Audit Office do their job. I would also like to thank them that, whenever they are allowed, they do their job impartially and in the best of professional skills. Unfortunately, however, the really important issues are decided not at a professional level but at a political level, and this is a rather sad situation in the case of an independent institution in principle, but still let us say it quietly, culturally, but very clearly and clearly that the State Audit Office is today the weapon of the Fidesz party state, which it is using against opposition parties. This is not a new statement, but we must say it at every opportunity, and we must also say every time that President László Domokos's independence is not questioned, but it is no longer assumed. [[12.00]] It is quite clear to everyone that the State Audit Office is, under his direction, an important pillar of the Fidesz party-state structure that aims to keep Fidesz in power and weaken opponents. This has become so clear to our informed fellow citizens in recent years that the State Audit Office is now mostly referred to as the Party State Audit Office, and public confidence for the institution has, to say the least, fallen significantly, and may even have completely evaporated. Well, that's very sad. On the one hand, what I said at the beginning about the quality and importance of the staff, on the other hand, is sad because, after a change of regime and a change of government, when the State Audit Office will resume its original function, it will be very difficult to regain this public confidence, because trust is only of such a nature that it can be lost very easily and quickly, and it is only possible to rebuild it with slow and difficult work. Let me quote some thoughts from Mr. President's exposé. The first, when he said that his goal was not to find faults, but to support, to guide them in the right direction, and to consider parties as partners, opposition parties in the course of checks. I wish that were true. And perhaps it is not the search for a fault that is the primary goal, but rather the justification for the judgments already in advance, the production of these justifications. He also said that, in the case of parties, perhaps their most important task is to prevent illicit party support as an important corruption threat and to ensure that parties manage the public funds entrusted to them in a transparent, accountable and exemplary manner. In view of this, it is particularly amusing that Fidesz and KDNP, which have done what only the darkest dictatorships have succeeded in achieving, that we have fallen to the bottom of the corruption indexes, there is virtually no international comparison where the Hungarian government's judgment would not have deteriorated by more than ten points, well, in these governing parties somehow managed to find everything all right. I can congratulate you on that. You're really only qualified for this judgment. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]] And the third and perhaps most important thought, when he explained that it was ultimately the task of the State Audit Office to shape the future: I very much ask, Mr President, that the party-state Court of Auditors should not shape the future of Hungary, do not hinder the continuation or restoration of democratic competition, fair and fair political conditions. Society does not expect you to shape the future. You are expected to do a fair audit work, and as a citizen, I expect you personally to resign and give your place to a leader who can at least be assumed to be independent. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-06-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Once again, from the MSZP Group, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély will take the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-06-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, In my previous speech, I said that I would like to address two more issues: this is the result of the monitoring of children's meals and the outcome, and the other is the health check. But let me respond to the solo before me in a few sentences. Béla Turi-Kovács, I am very sorry that you have already left; when you speak, I like to listen to him very much, and your speech was just like that, except for the last sentence, when you supported the ruling party in voting for the report that you could sit here with the opposition. One of the best parts of his speech was how he addressed the foundations about how they could lose it and drew the SAO's attention to how they would control it and how public funds pumped into foundations could lose their public money. I think the first investigation should start with György Matolcsy, and it would be good to start at last, because it's been a story for several years about how the MNB steals public funds through its own foundations. We have talked about hundreds of billions of forints in recent years. And thank you very much for the fact that my pro-government fellow politician here in front of Parliament has said that this should be a matter of great attention, and that is what the SAO should do. On the other hand, I would like to thank Andrea Varga-Damm for drawing attention to the fact that the SAO is paying special attention to social groups living in extreme poverty. And then there would be a task for the SAO, only we know very well that it is connected to pro-government politicians by the theft of this billions of forints. I might as well be talking about Wolf Florian. Mr. President. Then, when we accuse you of carrying out impartial investigations, here are the examples of why this is happening. I'm sorry, we're also talking about serious sums of money, the theft of billions of forints, and we paid double for it because Flórian Farkas stole it, and then we paid for it again. Because the budget took responsibility, and we've been waiting for someone to do something ever since. Yes, it can be said, Mr President, that you speak, stand up and tell us to take the necessary legal action. Mr. President. How many times have we filed charges in these cases? We're writing with you, all opposition politicians! We draw attention to those maladministrations, and then you give us an answer that we will do this, or we will not do that, or you will write down how we should report them, and Peter Polt will do his job. Do you understand, Mr. President, what we're talking about? I can see you don't understand because you don't want to understand. Now, let's focus specifically on the situation in which the baby is fed. And I want you to tell me, because you said you were a control body, and you don't have too many tools, and you're making recommendations on health, and then you're telling the government how to do it... and you said you had coercive tools. Then it would be good if we could hear what the coercive tools are for the government to follow the recommendations that you write down. But then let's get to the baby food. I'm going to quote a lot of your report. This report is on the control of the child feeding system 2019. CHAPTER VIII It became public on the 16th day of the month, and all the representatives received it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Background, justification. The number of children's meals, the number of participants in them, the size of public money, the supply of food of a sufficient quantity and quality to their age, and in this context the preservation of health, are at the heart of society's attention. That's what you're looking at right here. If I could make a critical remark right away at the first sentence, all I can do is reverse the order. I understand that public money is very important, the size of the participants. What I would like to emphasise most of all is that children's health is the most important thing, and that children are given the service in the capacity they should be given, and I would like to do it for the last time what the size of public money means. For me, the child is always a little more important than starting with the size of public money. On a national level, the majority of educational establishments providing children's meals are equipped with a serving kitchen and a third of the kitchens are in place. In 2014, the number of daycare centers was 736 and the number of children and children's meals was 37.3 thousand, of which 30 per cent received a discount. Now I'm not going to list how it grew here. Everyone who sits in Parliament knows how the number of people taking part in preferential meals has increased in recent years. And here they explain that I note that the social child meal was introduced by the Socialist Government, because you, when we argue here in Parliament, keep forgetting to say it. It's like Fidesz came up with it, and they forget to talk about how the children in need of social services were being fed, and then the summer holiday meal was introduced by us, and you were right to continue doing so. And then they list how the amount of this meal increased from HUF 52.2 billion in 2014 to HUF 71.7 billion over the years. In essence, this investigation was ordered because it was necessary to see how the municipalities used this budgetary resource. The following have been established with regard to the register of children who are entitled to a holiday meal. The entitled children with a disadvantaged, cumulative disadvantage and regular child protection benefit are entitled to the Gyvt. On the basis of this, municipalities should be provided free of charge for children's holidays. [[12.10]] As a result of the failure to keep the register or the irregular management of the register, it could not be justified that all parents of children entitled to a holiday meal received the information enabling them to eat free of charge and that the recipients of the free children's meals met the conditions for entitlement to the benefit and that the municipalities without the required records could not comply with the law of the Gyvt. 137. Section 1 of Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. This is about and is mentioned several times in the analysis, which I personally object to several times when they amended the text of the law, who the needy one is, and how the child can make use of holiday meals. They put in half a sentence, and to this day they have failed to take out this half sentence, so that the Ministry knows how many needy children there are in a given year, who should receive the holiday meal. We are faced with very interesting numbers and I am constantly mailing with the Ministry - : about six billion forints are planned for the holiday meal within 71 billion forints, but according to the data requested, they can only use about half of it on a continuous basis, because about 100,000 children do not receive this kind of service on breaks because there is no proper information. You write it down, and we've been telling you for several years that the municipalities know that child welfare services know, and even the minister himself has acknowledged numerically, numerically, how many children should receive this care every break, but they don't get it because the parent doesn't want it. There are several reasons why you do not ask, write down that you do not receive the kind of information properly from the notary and from the institution that they are entitled to this benefit. And there is another reason, and this has come from the analysis of civil society organisations and the Academy of Sciences, and we know that in many cases they do not ask because they are ashamed that they should use this service on a needy basis. There is one such thing that the municipalities, as those obliged to carry out the task, have provided for the feeding of children, but they have not provided for the proper supervision of the functioning of the feeding of children. The municipalities, as those obliged to carry out the task, provided for the feeding of children, but the activities related to the supervision of the provision of tasks were not carried out properly. Urban and municipal authorities did not act properly as they did not assess the satisfaction of children's meals users in their respective fields of competence in relation to the quality and quality of meals. This report describes a lot of errors with regard to public procurement, but to me this is the one sentence, which is very important, that the municipalities did not fulfil the kind of control tasks they had to perform in public catering to ensure that at the end point, children had achieved the goal of providing quality food that could be expected. Now allow me to play politics. I am pleased with this report not only because the report supports the criticisms that we have been putting in the eyes of the governing party for years, but it is very important to have a very serious check on this because every year more public money goes to children's meals. We are now talking about more than 70 billion forints. And let the little devil come out of me, if I may. We also see how in recent years companies linked to Fidesz politicians have struck down the catering market. We also see that despite the change of law, the Menza reform, as we call it, to give children better quality and healthier food, from experience and parental signals I know that very, very poor quality food is being given to children today through mass catering; rather than being better, it is getting worse and worse. I ask the President of the SAO to take the message: if we give more than 70 billion forints of public money to Fidesz politicians' companies in many cases, then at least pay the price, we taxpayers will pay the price to at least put quality food in front of children every day. We'll pay for it. You don't have to steal everything. We'll pay for it multiple times, so at least the kids can get food that's edible and quality. You know, Mr President, I could name the institutions in which these companies have set foot, and with their weight, parents have given up feeding children and going out to the market at multiple prices just to ensure that the healthy and high-quality delivery of children is resolved. I very much hope that they can put pressure on the government for such an important task, because I think that when a family-friendly government constantly communicates that the child is the first, then this task should also be very important, because we are talking about our children, and we are spending an awful lot of money on solving this problem. And then I don't want to say that for many years we have fought for the Fidesz to put as much resources into this as possible, so that the feeding of children and the feeding of children in need can be solved, for years it has resisted this opposition initiative, and there was also a civil initiative, which was voted down by Fidesz-KDNP, but then they became enlightened, and we saw that every year the amount for food was increased by tens of billions forints. Don't prove that this is just because Fidesz-related companies have part of the food supply. Do not prove that this is true, that if I stand up and say in my speeches that we experience this in many cases, and only because of increasing and not improving the quality of feeding, we will not continue to receive the 100 000 children's kind of benefit that I do not understand to this day, Mr President, that if we know numerically how many children need it, then why should we put half a sentence in a law so that they do not get it after all. I need your help with that. Unfortunately, I still couldn't talk about health care, but then I'm going to make another comment. Mr President, I would ask you to put this kind of pressure on the government, so that the public catering is also in order, because, on the basis of Andrea Varga-Damm, your priority is to help disadvantaged groups and to make proposals to the government to resolve this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-06-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Varju is also coming to a repeat speech from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think we are witnessing a rare moment, or perhaps an hour ago, and I really want to reflect on Mr President's words, or argue with him, and highlight what the real difference between us is. You said that Hungary has a constitution. Hungary does not have a constitution; it has a fundamental law, from which you believe that they are acting legally, this is what you have drawn attention to on several occasions, and you are asking us to remain within these limits and try to evaluate your work. And so you are as inspectors, and we are classified as controlled, as you said; so we can become a serious parliament in a serious country, so that a serious State Audit Office does this. It's just, Mr President, we disagree. The rule, the law you refer to, is the law of the state party, you have adopted it, and you want us to fully enforce those laws, those rules. [[12.20]] In the meantime, we are trying to do so in the sense that it does not punish us to death, or punish those organisations to death, but I must point out once again that when you deliberately develop the control process in such a way that it can only fail, it is far from what concerns the specific areas where it would be expected to work. Once again, I would like to say that when you claim that you are the legislator, please do not agree with us, because it is on the basis of which you are carrying out this control, and which reflects the spirit that you say and how you are doing it, that is the appearance of the party of the state. And in that sense, you have made it clear today that you are one of the organizations of this party of state, and you are doing your job accordingly. If you then feel, and in this sense there is a sentence in which we agree, this is not a personal debate, but such a huge conceptual debate, in which I think that when you represent the system of national robbery while operating Fidesz, let me now say that the State Audit Office is wrong in this system, and it is better not to rock itself in the pleasant dream that otherwise we should judge what you are doing on this basis. In addition, you have a Pharisee way of saying that we should press charges and turn to different organisations. But what if, in these cases or in the cases highlighted here and then, let us not go any further, the State Audit Office of Hungary would draw up a plan of measures where it also places responsibility on the state, the government, for what it should do differently. Because it is only in the cases mentioned here by my fellow Members that we should do something quite different. You have come to the idea that, for example, you cannot behave differently in the various elements of campaign funding because the legislation adopted by the State Party makes this possible and then refers to international standards, that you can and should respect what is certain in this respect if you ask us to have our opinion in it. But once again, I have not passed this law, but we must endure the dictatorship of a party of state, and you will come, and you will be accountable to us. He asks the institutional system to account for all those who suffer. And then, in order to stay at the potato metaphor, you spread your hand and say that even though the potatoes were delivered to the truck number, you can't see that the king has been naked for a long time, you can't take that into account. Mr President, this is unacceptable. I think that the State Court of Auditors' formal presentation and the intention that you believe the State Audit Office is acting legally, then you should not be rocking yourself in the dream that this is in the best interests of the country. It's in the interest of the state party, Fidesz, what you're doing. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-06-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the proper speeches. Member Antal Csárdi of the LMP Group has also applied for a repeated speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-06-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, If I was good at taking notes, then you said that the operation of the organization confirms that the State Audit Office is not biased. I almost agree with that. I think it takes a small amendment: the operation of the organization confirms that the State Audit Office is a biased body of the Hungarian system. Why is that? Because I can prove it. When all parties were controlled by the State Audit Office, the leading governing party, the largest party in this country, was somehow left out of the spread. I think that's biased. It is also biased that the timing of the tests and the timing of the publication of the results are set out in Annex IX. I'm talking about a district example, and I'm talking about a fresh example, and it can't happen the way it follows from the test. I'm sure this investigation of Fidesz leadership will only be published after the election results have been made public. I believe that even my fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, has agreed on this as a minimum to influence the cleanliness of the elections. And again, I'm talking about bias. We didn't get an answer, and I'm extremely interested, and I'm informed about it, because it's not about LMP or my person, but I would be extremely interested in how a debt to Magyar Posta can be transformed into party financing behind the bastions of impartiality. I'm not even telling you how to turn into a party fund at all. And then another question is, how will this be prohibited party funding, when an organization, a political organization, belongs to the Hungarian Post, from which we all buy services, I think Fidesz, every opposition party, and I even risk it, the State Audit Office of Hungary. I think that this would be an interesting debate. If you could answer that, I'd be especially grateful. The infinite cynicism that we should submit a legislative amendment if we feel the need for such a change was said by my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács, well, I can only interpret this cynicism with stuttering sentence editing. Because in the last cycle, but probably in this cycle, and even in this cycle, there was certainly no bill that would not have been rejected by the amendment or the creation of the Fidesz majority, regardless of the content. But we're not gonna make it this far. The governor's majority is also trying to prevent a debate on a bill with your two-thirds authority. Let's see, we left yesterday's voting list with the series of initiatives. The Fidesz-KDNP association did not support any claim for a series of opposition items. And we have to watch the whole thing, the big picture, that's what I'm convinced of. And this big picture shows that the Fidesz-KDNP, the State Audit Office, and, as has been said in a speech, the National Tax and Customs Office are all on the same team. But not on a team that would be ideal, but on a political team. 'Cause what's happening? The example of the NAV is that if I buy an apartment, the NAV will come out and check that the square meter price, the amount that is included in the sales contract, is realistic. We had this in our family, we had an apartment purchase, and within a month of the signing of the contract, NAV staff showed up, looked around, looked at the state of the property, location and checked whether the amount that was included in the sales contract was real. [[12.30]] Now, on the other hand, the National Tax and Customs Office, and in this, I think, is a perfect partner of the State Court of Auditors, does not carry out these investigations, for example, in the case of municipal real estate sales. 'Cause if you did that, you wouldn't be able to do the fifth district or the ninth district. The district sells property at 200,000 forints per square meter, it would not be possible to sell a property close to 30 million forints on the market to someone for 7.5 million forints. I understand there's a valuation, but I apologize for the fact that if this valuation method were applied to your property, you'd be outraged. But I have some bad news. It was used on your property. Because it's public money. Because it's public money, so it's yours. The loss is yours, too. And you still haven't investigated these abuses in the district's operation. I think that the public financial nature of EU funds has come up here, that we need to talk about it again, although we must be honest, perhaps the State Audit Office is less involved in this, but let's face it, OLAF has made a great deal of statements. And how interesting, I don't know, it was a surprise. How interesting that the Hungarian governing party did not disclose only the abuse of metro 4! I think it is right that this report by OLAF has been made public. It is no longer right that there was no legal consequence. But you have gone further, because after that at least three more reports have been issued by OLAF, which rightly condemns you and the government. They weren't even in the public eye anymore. I'm not saying that, unfortunately, there were no legal consequences in this country. There has been a lot of things here, because if it is public money, which the State Audit Office is supposed to check for its use, operation and management, then I would like to point out, like my fellow Members, the following. The Danube Arena was built with public money. The Danube Arena is operated and operated by public funds. Compared to this, I think it's very strange that you're only looking at one newspaper, that it's practically used for free for contestants. For market purposes, I would add, I'm sorry, because it's very important that they didn't give it away for free, they gave it away for market purposes for free. And you're going to answer that, so let's go to the courthouse and press charges. Am I reading this correctly, fellow Members? Well, I'd like to reassure you that I filed a complaint against an unidentified unsub yesterday in this case. And, Mr President, allow me to send you a copy of every letter that I will receive from the Detective Attorney General's Office, so that you can personally experience that the system of which you are part is an active part of, the active part of the DA's office, is an active part of the NAV, and it would be a long list of how you deal with such an initiative. But I may also send you all our legislative proposals and answers and voting behaviour that, by the way, an amendment of the law from the opposition side, I would like to point out that it is doomed to its death regardless of content. I'll send you this, too. In fact, I will then send all of our initiatives towards transparency and transparency, and the governing party, the governing party giving the majority, will reject us without thinking and hesitation. I think we all know that that's true. But I think you know that. Of course, I understand that if you look at the picture of us discussing the State Audit Office's accounts, compared to this, the National Tax and Customs Office has come here now, and I have to cheat here, and many other public funds have come here, and I am asking you for this. I am not just asking you to answer to my fellow Members. And the reason I'm telling you about the State Audit Office's report is because the big picture, the grand picture, shows that the State Audit Office is working with these other audit authorities for political purposes and is interestingly of political interest. And I think that's proven. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-11-06-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would just like to inform the remaining speakers that after the next two minutes, Mr Carpát Z and Mr Andrea Varga-Damm will have the opportunity to speak again. However, I would ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to amend her speech for two minutes, because she has already made repeated speeches according to the machine, and I refer to this. So now we have two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy.
u2019-11-06-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My fellow Members have listed a number of cases on which the SAO could have responded with the same sensitivity or vehemency, and could have gone for all kinds of suspicious business as when controlling the parties. For example, at the collection of red sludge donations, HUF 2 billion was transferred into a public account from Hungarian taxpayers, and only those who were indemnified by the red mud drama did not receive a single penny of it. There's a story here, too, where this two billion forint is. I could also say that if Zsolt Borkai had resigned, and tomorrow he will resign from the mayor's position in Győr, that when Győr's city lost billions of forints in the sale of the Audi lands, I didn't really see that kind of enthusiasm to follow up on this case with the same vehemence. Or the case of the Matolcsy Foundations, for example, when the Hungarian taxpayers lost their public money when they created private foundations and bought office buildings, carpets and expensive furniture on taxpayers' money. By the way, I would add that these foundations also included relatives, friends and acquaintances, and also no greater glory in how public money is managed. Another matter relating to the funding of parties. If we do not consider it unfair party funding that the opposition, for example, does not get posters, but the governing parties steal 90 percent of the posters, then I do not know what to call it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2019-11-06-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, it will be Daniel Z. Carpathian, for a two-minute speech.
u2019-11-06-45	Mr President, Dear House, I did not wish to mix the professional speech with the personal one, I will brief Mr F Kovács in two minutes, because without you, this debate could have been much more qualitative. But you're here and you've spoken to him. It's his personal record of who knows how to deal with this subject because he doesn't understand it. The fact is, you do not understand the essence of democracy if you make such statements. You will not become a Democrat, and you will not be able to speak to a debate if you serve the dictatorship that is now waking up in a mood, so you will get to a higher level in your food chain. The fact is, my fellow Member, in this faction, where I am sitting, some have written or graduated from public financial control. I didn't even consider your qualifications when you spoke to this debate, so please don't do this to anyone else. If you understood the essence of democracy, you would see that it is not the individual of the individual Members that is important here, but the number and quality of the voters behind it as well. If there's a measurable number of votes behind anyone and it puts him in a parliament, he deserves the respect that we're not looking at his personal qualities. If I were to look into yours, believe me, I'd find a way to catch what you said. But that's not what I'm doing. I'm trying to evaluate the arguments you've given me, but in contrast to the different quality requirements that you didn't really meet. [[12.40]] The thing is, there's supposed to be thoughts here, and they're not people. If you get rid of this, you don't understand the essence of democracy. A secretary of state in the Hungarian Parliament cannot call on a representative to do not work! And on the other hand, on the phone. If you justify this, I'll tell you once again, the system of popular representation, you don't understand all of it, you're making yourself unworthy of that. That is why I ask you to refrain from this behaviour, because it makes it quite simply impossible for professional arguments to fight each other. You have issued your certificate, and I hope that you can improve this further in the course of the debate. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-06-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now Mrs. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is next for the two-minute period, then for the second time, the second time.
u2019-11-06-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then I was reassured, Mr President, that I would be able to comment again on my repeated comment. I was starting to get scared that something had changed in the house rules that we hadn't noticed.
u2019-11-06-48	In a block, you can be a faction once in a while.
u2019-11-06-49	Yes, yes, but... yes, thank you, Mr. President. I would like to respond to the fact that I would have liked to have had Mr President rise up in this bloc and answer our questions, because when we talked about the punishment of political parties and the observance of the rules, he was able to comment on the debate quite long enough twice. I would have liked it now because I see that all my fellow Members have come up with concrete matters, issues in the report, and we would like to see them, because we know precisely that when Mr President stands up and closes his speech, we can no longer respond to that. They have been using this trick for years, not to argue in the debate, but, in essence, to make comments at the closing, and opposition representatives can no longer respond to that. I would very much like for you to respond, apart from examining political parties, to matters that we can even respond to, which are still the problems in which we have asked for your help and the assistance of your organization. Because, yes, I must say, let me be critical to you: if you, on the basis of your examination, find that some kind of lawlessness has occurred in companies, municipal or state companies, then why don't you open proceedings on your own initiative? Don't point fingers at the congressmen, you do the same. There were many such cases, then help opposition representatives to do so [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If the ruling party always rejects us, then you should make these signals to the right bodies. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-11-06-50	Thank you very much. I'll ask you to check in. I would also like to address Mr Sándor F Kovács for a two-minute speech.
u2019-11-06-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I did not want to take part in a debate of this quality, as my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, tried to initiate a professional debate in the previous two minutes, and in two minutes he constantly qualified only my contribution. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Your comment, not you! Then you understand the point. The president's ringing the bell.]] Not a single number appeared in this. In my comment I said concrete figures about the audit, 323 reports were produced, 2200 proposals were made by the State Audit Office, more than 200 letters of awareness; more than 5 percent economic growth, 850 thousand new jobs. So these were numbers, trades, not ratings, not other ratings. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't say such things!]] And if you're on the numbers, Congressman, you're gonna count when you say how many voters are behind you, and you're gonna qualify the voters, I wouldn't do it in your place, because the misunderstanding of democracy is the quality of the faction and the quality of the voters behind it. [[Z. Kárpat Dániel: You didn't understand the point. It's not your fault, you don't understand.]] This is really a misunderstanding of democracy. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You didn't understand.]] The other thing is that I am an elected Member in an individual district, and I have received twice as many votes from your fellow Members as your individual representative in the parliamentary elections. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That's exactly what I said that's not...]] So if you mention quantity and quality [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I didn't mention it, you brought it up.]] then stick to the numbers and don't judge your fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Listen to me, didn't you understand?!]]
u2019-11-06-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. My fellow Members, I would very much ask you not to take this debate to a personal level. I give the floor to President László Domokos. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2019-11-06-53	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't understand Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, but he doesn't have his call for a definite debate because he's not here, but after he wants to speak to him again, I will respond to him because he can react. I don't think it's worthy, by the way, that in this House, which belongs to you, the SAO president should argue with the same vehemency. I am trying to continuously present the facts that might frame the state of the debate in a meaningful direction. But I don't dare to qualify, but what's important is a fact. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély returns to the Chamber.]] First of all, I would like to point out that I believe that not only he and others are wrong, we did not declare the foundation of the National Bank as not public money or public money. There was a debate about this, the Constitutional Court decided, and the Parliament decided that the Court of Auditors should check it out. We have known since the European Statistical Office placed it among the public debt, so in this sense this debate has long been over, I consider it to be. The government accepted this, as that is what we learned from the press release, when the news reports reported a few weeks ago on the change in the debt rate. At the end of 18 and at the beginning of 19 the SAO published this report with errors and results. We also checked the Gypsy Minority Municipality. Wrong. We filed a report. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What about him?]] It is true that not in 18, but earlier, in the period from which you were trying to quote. Read the report, I suggest. The third question, I am trying to say very firmly, I understand that you do not want us to do the official procedure and investigation, or we do not do it, but if, on the basis of verification, our auditors find suspicions, by the way, we have made 177 signals to the authorities only last year, and every year this is over 100. So we do the work when it's checked, but we can't be partners from this point of view, but our auditors, I control them, do the suspicions, and they come to the authorities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-06-54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A proper speech from the Jobbik Group, as a repeat speech, will be followed by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2019-11-06-55	Mr President, Dear House, I made a promise to myself, among other things, and I'm really staying on the professional front, ignoring any personalities. There would be plenty of ammunition, but perhaps it is more important for the future to leave in the minutes what is really important for national fate issues. During today's debate, corruption, its flow chart, its mechanism and certain details have been discussed several times. That is why I would like to point out to the attention of those present that I am generally distant when a foreign NGO, a European Union specialist body, and a specialist service raises some criticism against Hungary, the Hungarian economy. Typically, I have been on the side of my whole life to solve our own affairs at home, not to transfer sovereignty in either direction, and to talk about, say, EU cooperation when there is absolutely no national solution. So once again, I am distant, and in this respect it can be debated, because if someone can question the facts and figures that I have listed in a productive debate, then I can accept their potential right. I hope that happens. At the same time, we see that the volume of the amount affected by corruption in Hungary is estimated at HUF 4000 billion per year in terms of the reports of previous years. The vast majority of the reports, whether on a European Commission or on another rating report, typically deal with the public procurement market. A very interesting statement was published, which took stock of the share of businessmen close to the government, which is an indication of public procurement. According to the figures here, 11 percent of public procurement in 2013 was found to be an oligarch near the government, a businessman, or the only starter. By 2017, this ratio rose from 11 to 26 percent. Once again, these are the numbers to be clarified. [[12.50]] The fact is that according to TED's raw data for 2017, around 30 percent of public procurement was competitive without any substantial competition. In this context, not only the one-time, single-playing procurement procedures should be considered, but the profession typically defines two risk factors. On the one hand, the very low number of start-ups can also be considered a risk factor, so when starting with a background of two start-ups with a completely similar background, there is a clear suspicion of abuse, and also when the amount covered by the public procurement or the amount that the contractor will mark for the execution of the works ends, say, with a round million forints. Typically, it is not the calculation of market prices that results in such an offer ending to a million and zero forints, but in a completely different way. Thus, based on the assessment of these two risk factors, around 36 percent of public procurement was considered uncompetitive on the basis of raw data. And during the period concerned, with 33 countries under review, typically under the control of EEA Member States and the region, Hungary took the sixth place from behind. It is meant as a quote, since it is not a prominent place where we have to compete with Greece and, say, Bulgaria in terms of the corruption of the public procurement system and the economy in general. By the way, I also recognise the positive, so there have been substantial changes in the VAT system. I dispute the VAT system elsewhere, so rather, the fact that there is a record world champion VAT of 27 per cent, let us say, the child-rearing articles, and Hungary generates huge revenue from this, while the corporate tax front does not include the payments of the multinationals referring to public burdens in the same budgets. But this will be the subject of another debate. I think it is entirely legitimate to suggest that we expect at least this much activity in relation to the sale of real estate by the municipality below the price. And, of course, this is a multi-player game, it cannot be expected solely by the SAO, or solely by such an organization, to do its work on its merits, on its own, but by their cooperation. And, once again, I think it should be clarified that, although the number of single-track procurements in 2017 is 16,6 percent on the basis of one of the many available data, I would like to stress that the proportion of procurement procedures that are very few, i.e. considered as risk factors, and those where there is supposedly no substantial competition, is 36 percent, brutally high, and outstandingly high at European Union level. And if only 20-30 percent of the estimated EUR 4000 billion per year of corruption volume can be returned to the Hungarian economy in the short and medium term as a development resource, we could expect amazing results. So it is often said that the Hungarian economy is small, it is exposed, it is very vulnerable to regional conditions, it is also true, but we also have to say that if this economy did not operate in such a corrupt way and it did not work so much at the expense of Hungarian, Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, even the current system could have enormous reserves of power. I would also move the decision-maker, the representatives of the governing parties, to try to seize this reserve, not to allow these corruption mechanisms to take root. The task of the SAO is vital in this task, since corruption and sin cannot be colourful, can not be party color; they must be exterminated and destroyed in all respects, since their own future is consumed by a national economy that tolerates similar mechanisms in its life. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-06-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is next. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-06-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm trying to be a little shorter, but I need to read a few things out of your report on health care, and how do I respond, why this is very important, that the State Audit Office has been making signals to the government for years, not this year, but, as it is in the material, and makes recommendations on what the government should be doing. And the reason why it is very important to talk about health care is because either in the Finance Law or in the Law on Health, we keep saying that if Hungarian people are asked what they think is their most important problem, the issue of health has been in the first place for years. And I must add that for years we have seen a worsening trend, how Hungarian citizens feel about the state of health in Hungary today, and how the government responds to the problems that we are dealing with. Here we can talk about the terrible lack of doctors, the increase in the number of private practices, the appearance of the coral, the need for child care, dental care, but everywhere that is covered by health care, we have a huge problem. I would like to quote two reports. The SAO is informed about the provision of health business organisations. Here I have read a sentence, a section once, because I started my speech by saying that the President of the SAO has pointed out that the irregularities detected at the institutions and companies concerned have endangered the reliability of the responsible financial management, there have been risks in the financial process and in the solvency of the institutions, and that the management irregularities have significantly increased corruption risks. At the same time, it is important to stress that the irregularities detected did not appear uniformly in all farming organisations; in the case of some institutions or companies, the SAO has also experienced regular management practices. In recent years, the SAO has repeatedly drawn the attention of decision-makers and the public to irregularities and mismanagement practices detected during the inspections, and shared its summary experiences with the Hungarian Hospital Association as well as with other professional organisations. On request, the SAO will re-acquire its summary experiences to the parties concerned. In the SAO's view, it is important that individual institutions and companies are managed with adequate financial and economic expertise. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This report makes very important findings, and I must also say here that we are constantly confronted with the fact that every year hospital debt carries a greater risk, and we see debts of 60-70-80 billion constantly being rolled by hospitals, and that, somewhere, the government has been unwilling to do anything about it for years. They tried to make changes, to appoint new leaders to lead hospitals, or even to try to discipline them, to better manage hospitals, but we can see from the experience of the past years and the SAO's reports support this, that somehow the way we deal with this problem is not effective. There's a report, it's one of the latest, 2019. CHAPTER VII It was made public on the 12th of October, it's about emergency care. Allow me to quote a few sentences from this:. The purpose of emergency or emergency care is to ensure that people live, live anywhere in the country with the same chance, have access to adequate quality healthcare at a time justified by their health. Emergency care is a public service, a complex and complex system, which includes rescue, on-call and hospital emergency care. László Domokos emphasized it. The President of the State Audit Office explained that all patients, regardless of their nationality, have the right to urgent care, if necessary, to prevent serious or permanent damage to their health, as well as to alleviate their pain and to reduce their suffering. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Here I have to tell you the data that the Minister himself now acknowledges, although there is a little debate here, but I think it is almost irrelevant that we are talking about 28 or 34,000 patients who are dying annually in Hungary because they do not have access to the right healthcare and basic care. It is not because of their illness, not because of the weight of their illness that causes death, but because they do not have access in time to the service that you mention in this report, that regardless of where you belong, which social group, all Hungarian citizens have the right to adequate health care. In this report, the President of the SAO summarises in four points what recommendations he makes to the wallet. Allow me to say this also: Ensure the definition of areas and tools related to emergency care objectives, personal, physical, professional and monitoring and evaluation systems, define the method of evaluation and the range of indicators to be used. [[13.00]] 2. Ensure monitoring of the implementation of strategic objectives and the fulfilment of reporting obligations. Because the material tells us what errors and follow-up the wallet does not perform in this regard, so that the quality of this emergency care can be improved in Hungary. , 3. Ensure a pre-defined timetable for checking the availability of minimum personal and physical conditions for emergency care. We are talking about a very important point, because here we are talking about minimum conditions, not a high quality service, but minimum conditions, where emergency care should be carried out. How to use this medicine 4. In order to prevent and treat the patient's deterioration in time, the patient classification system in emergency care departments should be established according to uniform principles: professional protocol or directive. It is also very important because the material relates to the fact that a public opinion poll has been carried out, how the citizens themselves value it, the patients themselves who have used emergency care, and the State Audit Office makes very important findings, which we are well aware of, because the real reason why we are honest with you is that there is no person in Hungary who would not use this service in a short time. It is also very important that this report has come to light here, and I would like to ask the President, as I have asked for in the public catering because of the kind of pressure he referred to in a half sentence in his speech, how he intends to implement it, because I see that he writes in the report that he will make recommendations to the appropriate bodies, either to the government or to the health institutions and to the ministry. We see that every year there are worse conditions in the field of health, and this cannot be kept any longer. In my speech as Chief Speaker, I also suggested that it is not acceptable that tens of thousands of people die in Hungary today only because they cannot avail themselves of a basic care that is in the government's duties, and even the Fundamental Law provides that every person, citizen, has the right to adequate health care. I think it was a very important part of talking about this for a few minutes. It is very important for me to talk about children, and if in the children and in the families and in the Hungarian people, I think that in the first place the problem is health care, then I am glad that these reports will come to light. I would only ask Mr President, despite all our debates, that somewhere we should not read year after year that we could not move forward again. Even though recommendations are made to the government either by professional organisations or politicians or by the SAO, we find that, rather than moving forward, we can still say that the financing of health care is in a worse position to address the problem. I think that if we are talking about such a strong problem, I might be able to advise you to act more forcefully against the government, against the minister, against the institutions, or to ask professional organisations for advice on how this could be resolved. I think the task is given, the size of the problem is given, and I think we should deal with it in its place. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-06-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Thank you for your cooperation. I see that no one has made contact for two minutes, so it is up to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm to make a proper speech. I give the chair to Vice President István Hiller. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2019-11-06-59	Good afternoon. We'll get back to work. Congresswoman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, In recent minutes, it has been said that you are sending countless signals to the authorities when faced with unlawful conduct, and even in this report it is stated that 36 percent of the number of investigating authorities mentioned by you came from the operation of companies, 16 percent from municipal activities and 18 percent from other controlled organisations. I would like to ask you if you are willing to answer that, after the 2018 report, 11 months have passed since the end of 2018, in these matters you have received feedback from the authority on what has become of these reports or announcements, as many speeches have somewhat discussed this issue. The next question, and I will continue to stress, is that I will make my contribution on the basis of the report: that is why there are about 3 million family mothers in Hungary who are farming. We, 3 million people, know exactly what it costs, we know exactly how much food, household appliances, and a lot of us have built an apartment, bought cars, and we've met a lot of services and sales where, I must say, we've been quite experienced in what it costs. We have already mentioned several times, during this hearing and the previous year's report, this particular, in particular, the poster issue of our party, when it was stated that the party received the posters for less than the market price, and therefore it is prohibited party funding. However, whether we look at OLAF reports or whether we are looking at various audits of the SAO, it is clear that they obtained public money in a significantly higher value than the market price during certain improvements. The strange thing about this case is that, interestingly, this has such serious legal consequences with regard to the downstream market price, while, in the context of a thousand billion-dollar spending, it does not occur to the SAO or to the investigating authority to say, please, that, in comparison to the market price, they obtain it, that and that. How is it that in Hungary a kilometer of motorways is built from more than in Germany, where Hungarians have four times the average wage? I would therefore like to ask the President, in this connection, that, although Mr President does not actually carry out these checks, but that if the less amount than the market price is rewarded with such a huge legal consequence, then when public money is used precisely in wasteful terms, there should also be a consequence, and if you would be kind enough to tell 3 million mothers that the error is not in your instruments and equipment, you are very smart, well-managed, and you know what it costs, it is the state who is a wasteful farmer. The next item: in recent minutes, when Mr President honored us with his speech, and thank you, he said that the case of the MNB foundations had come to a standstill, because the Constitutional Court also stated, and the President's word was that the government had accepted it. Mr. President, isn't it groundbreaking that if we use our community's money to create any assets, it will remain among them? I'm sorry, they didn't buy toilet paper, they didn't buy office supplies, they transferred the state's common assets to another organization with no service, no compensation. So he gave it without consideration, didn't buy any of it, didn't spend it, but transferred the spending of that mass of money to an organization that was inaccessible not only to the Members of Parliament, not just to the people, but indeed to the government. I'm sorry, I'm surprised you have to say you've accepted the government. You didn't have to accept it, it's a groundwork. We didn't even understand how that could be a question at all. [[13.10]] Next, in the 2009 SAO report, it is written that Hungary's economic structure is extremely poor in terms of the fact that foreign-owned companies realize 50% of the turnover, total economic life and economic sector revenues, and 75 percent of exports come from foreign-led companies. This is important that I brought here a 2009 because in 2010 Fidesz became a government, and we were told that this new Hungarian group of capital should be created by means of public procurement, because the proportion of foreign capital is so much that we want to finally get rid of the influence of foreign capital, we want Hungarian companies to be Hungarian owners, Hungarian revenues and the rest, and the rest, that this is recognised by the SAO as unsanitary, at least unsanitary structure from the point of view of development. Then the report of the KSH in 2017, if anyone looks, what do we find in it? That foreign-led companies have remained stable at 51 percent of the overall economic performance, i.e. not only decreased over the seven years, but even increased by 1 percent. This is important and I mention it to the President because it is written in the report that the SAO considers it a task to improve the country's economic competitiveness. It's written in it! If the aim of the SAO's activities is to help Hungary's competitiveness, then please ask someone, if not elsewhere, at a professional conference, that if it was so important, and we had to fill Lőrinc Mészáros and his associates with such funds in so much time that someone among the hundred richest citizens of the world could get in, how could that original intention not be realized? This means that what has been created by a Hungarian-owned capital team cannot participate in the performance of the Hungarian economy in such a way that it can overcome what foreign-led companies can do. I would like to say one more question about competitiveness. It was not particularly unexpected after the overcoming of the socialist system that a foreign-led company was doing its job much more professionally, and this was the reason for the lack of capital that foreign companies came to Hungary with a huge mass of foreign companies, which cannot otherwise be taken away from its economic creation factor, there is no way to ignore the fact that they have actually generated development in all respects, but it is a fact, and it was understandable that after twenty years, in 2010 we can safely strive to thank them for their beneficial activities, to take over professional technologies, corporate organisation, human resources management in all aspects, which are healthier and that Hungarian companies can gain better positions in this competitiveness. We thought that if this intention had developed after twenty years or twenty years, then now with this huge economic development, we see every year what a miracle the GDP increase is, and how the world admires and supports us, it is still a figure in 2017 that the competitiveness and productivity of foreign-led companies within Hungary is 2.5 times higher than that of Hungarian-owned companies. This means that even after 30 years, the situation is so much worse, even though Hungarian professionals have studied abroad with a mass of foreign companies, they are training people in Hungary, who are really Western in corporate governance now, unfortunately we have to say Eastern, because Asians are better able to organize economies, and we are here that even the SAO's explicit aim is to help productivity and competitiveness with its activities, and we are concerned that we have not virtually moved from the dead spot for such a long time. I would just like to ask everyone involved in this or participating in it that it does not have to come to you in public, but at least at home, and think about how it has been able to make any positive contribution to this country, not only being a beautiful statistical number in economic terms, but indeed a competitive economy, a competitive society, with which many people in 1989 made the promise that we would become a country of Austria, at least we will begin to approach it if we never catch it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-06-61	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. No further comments were received, and the joint general debate is closed. I will ask President Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[For signal:]] Mr. President, please.
u2019-11-06-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many of you criticized me for saying the closing words in a presentation, but I think that is expected, because you have honored us by reading our reports, our analyses, and even quoted them in today's debate, and with apparently different opinions, but we have been able to contribute to the issues by what we see and how you see, obviously, what we are based on the audit experience, based on evidence. I am trying to represent the work of hundreds of auditors, and you are obviously trying to express the feelings of millions of people, their constituents here, but it is obvious that feeling and actual measurement do not often coincide, so I can accept that. On the other hand, it is very important on the point of view, or, if you like, I think that neither of us is in a position to reject the Hungarian rule of law. We all took an oath to set up under the Fundamental Law, both of you and I. This is a gift which, I believe, is a basis of the rule of law and of the law-abiding behaviour that can be taken into account by the President of the Court of Auditors, but it is certainly not possible to question it. That you believe, and indeed there are very many people in Hungary who believe that Hungarian laws need not be complied with, or that some of them are currently displaying European Union rules, which are an increasing part of the Hungarian legal system, by the way, and we do see that there are those who consciously reject these laws, do not want to comply, and there are also those who do not know about them, therefore either clumsy or ignorantly, but are either European or Hungarian, or by the government, or by the local government... or by other legislators who have created them, behave in an offensive manner. That is why I took the basic position when I took the Court Presidency in 2010 that order is the basis of everything, order creates value, and that legislation, rules, laws that no one controls, which are not usually respected, those laws are unnecessary, they do not fulfil their role, and that must be re-examined under the scope of a bureaucracy reduction, because if even a control body does not commend it to control that rule, then I will probably accept you for questioning the existence of the rule. The SAO is also trying to draw attention to this when, based on the reporting experience, we see that these laws create a very difficult situation on the side of compliance, but it is not acceptable, I think, whether we are talking about the parties, the campaign or health care, that some of them are for someone who is pleasant, some are unpleasant, some have an advantage, some have a disadvantage if the law is respected or not respected. Now, let's stick to health care. Health legislation, doctors, doctor administration is a clear burden. Obviously, doctors think that first we need to cure, then we will administer this thing, but on the other hand, it is exactly what the representative mentioned specifically to the citizen and the information is important. By the way, children's meals are the same, so that is, of course, our view in this regard. I think that we need to be on the rule of law and on the fairness side, although legislation may be uncomfortable in health care or social care or catering, but it must be forced out, because they are for the benefit of citizens, for the benefit of the country. [[13.20]] In return, it serves the quality assurance of public services and public services, as a modern state can only practically provide documented and quality-quality services in a transparent, accountable manner, professionally... and not only financially, because it has been said that we may have only raised it financially. I think that in the extended examination of emergency care and emergency care, we said that professional issues are at least as important there, because they affect the financial, economic and, of course, the performance criteria, which Dániel Z. Karpát specifically mentioned, how important this is. I have to say that one of the biggest problems in Hungary is that most of the people think that they do not need to be justified; now I can bring any head of institutions here. I can confirm that we have been trying to look at the conditions of performance control for years now; there is a specific part of it. It is not true what Daniel Z. Carpathian said about the methodology that we love one of the methods. I must say that, on the basis of the risks, compliance with legislation is still the highest risk in the country, but immediately afterwards, of course, it would be part of it to be effective, and it would also be effective. However, as I have indicated, not only in emergency, emergency care, not only in children's meals, but also in a number of other areas, we find that the responsible managers, who have access to public money, receive the performance of their duties, receive the criteria on the internal control system laid down in the Fundamental Law, the SAO Act, the Public Finance Act, the Property Act, to be effective and effective, this does not have the demonstrable circumstances - so I must say. There's no document behind it, which I know hurts a lot of people that we're looking for a document. The SAO's basically checking on evidence, it's his only tool. So at the moment, according to the accounting law or other laws, if a transaction or act takes place, there must be a document, and we will conclude in the past on the basis of the request of that document. So now we ask for a document from a past period, and we conclude from what happened there that it complied with the rules. A wide range of this is a question of wasting money or being careful with money, where the criteria of effectiveness, efficiency and collection of data are not built in Hungary. It has a centuries tradition; I could say it is not so, they have not learned it enough. We also see that this is the first step of financial awareness in the first place... and at the level of state management, at the level of state leaders, i.e. state institutions, municipalities, companies, as there are professionals. But if this skill is not there, if this professional skill is not there... Although the SAO has started consistently in recent years, we wanted to check the efficiency and performance criteria, but indeed, if you look at it, we have been able to write down a single sentence in many, many reports: they have not developed their terms, so the performance assessment does not have the conditions, we cannot really judge that they used public money properly, effectively and effectively. We agree on these issues, and I see that you, too, have understood the SAO's idea of public finances in this regard. Now I'm in a bit of a dilemma about how I can be fair, because from either side, they don't accept that Hungarian laws are legitimate. That's basically what several Members have done. On the other hand, they asked for verification of compliance with the law, whether from the same party or from the same faction. If you don't mind, I'm sure I can't give you an answer that's gonna be good for everyone, and I'm not sure that's my job, but from now on, I'd use that tool, not abusing your time, because I know you'll still be able to sit down and answer in writing, because there's been a lot of misconceptions and speech, and I think that everyone's own question was very justified. I'm going to have to come back to some of the issues, and I'm going to answer a few questions, but not everything. First of all, I want to thank all the Members for having clearly prepared and read it, so they did not just, let's just say, hear from the newspapers about the SAO's work. Some saw our report too colorful, and others could argue with it. In any case, it seems that everyone has reached the minimum threshold of being held, read, or, at least, looked up and looked up the electronic version. One of the issues raised was public feedback and the dilemma of turning to authorities. I specifically tell Andrea Varga-Damm that, yes, we typically receive feedback, especially from the Public Procurement Authority. In fact, not only do we get feedback, there the President seems to have directly expanded powers in the otherwise significantly improved public procurement law environment, so the SAO does not have as many control tasks as it is the second line of defence, the President has the ability to control and use force measures to protect public money when reviewing contracts and even in the process of completing the contracts. The SAO didn't have that kind of authority. We see that the Public Procurement Authority is indeed overseeing a very critical area, there have been a lot of improvements. On the other hand, let me respond to Dániel Z. Kárpát's comment on public procurement in so far as, on the one hand, they have an annual report. As far as I've read it, I've read other co-governments, even though there's been criticism here that we're cooperating. At least I try to read the reports and even participate in their events, for example, to the Public Procurement Authority when asked to comment. And that's where I could see that these numbers were contested and sued, and they weren't real. Which numbers we're talking about right now, I can't tell you, but we'll be more careful with these singles. The analyst didn't do it entirely with the professionalism of scientific science, at least what I know, but I'm not competent specifically, I just wanted to say that, yes, another authority has an argument, let's just say, with lawyers and lobbyists, and it's not a simple situation either, let's face it. Whoever loses in public procurement, the boss of the one who made the offer, I'm sure he'll ask how this happened. It's obviously causing all kinds of reactions. It's a battlefield, I think, business territory. Obviously, there are many interests in him. The SAO sensed that. We have been able to say that the public procurement environment in Hungary has improved significantly, compared to, say, the situation prior to. This is clearly seen in the European Union. Once again, if it was misunderstood, I would say that I did not say that we should act according to international organisations, but that, in the light of the recommendations of international organisations, the party law was amended, I said. In the other case, when this question, I believe, was published by the other Member, Andrea Varga-Damm, the government did not acknowledge that public money or not public money, I did not say that, but I said that the debate with Eurostat that this would increase public debt, that it should be reported on the spending of national bank foundations, that the debate was closed, and that the government had let this matter go, and that the Hungarian sovereign debt was corrected for this, they increased to be quite precise. That's what I was trying to say, maybe I was trying to say it too briefly, so it was less traceable. I also think that Hungarian legislation must be complied with. Obviously, the Hungarian legislators must also consider international aspects, either reject or support them, and I would not take a position on this. In addition, the National Tax and Customs Office has already given quite a lot of feedback this year, and we also typically see action on the part of government agencies, although it does not have a reporting obligation. I would like to point out that this year we are mostly putting the official signals in the appendix, so you are now able to read in detail the areas where the SAO has suspicions. [[13.30]] They couldn't have read it this way before, but it was only in the report, in a sentence, and now I've pulled it out separately, just as you asked, so that you could follow it up. The SAO can't go behind it any more, because there are some official procedures, not necessarily prosecutors or investigators, but the procedure of some authority is justified, for example, whether the government office, the Public Procurement Authority or the Treasury is in this circle, and there are a number of authorities to which we give various signals. In the case of the Danube Arena: if there is a complaint with a public authority, the SAO will actually present the investigating authority to the SAO, because he has a much stronger instrument than the SAO. So, in this sense, it is obvious that we have received several signals, which you also send in a letter, and others have also said here what we should check, but I would like to put it right: Győr has also been checked, the districts mentioned have also been checked, not once, even before the campaign period and indeed afterwards. I said that during the campaign period, we did not publish any control, so it could have been that, suddenly, in the last two weeks, much more local governments or companies were reported. Here too, thanks to someone who has seen that yes, if the SAO goes to check, there is usually a mistake. Our auditors, the heads of control, are trying to make a statement based on the facts. It is not the President of the Court of Auditors who makes the findings, which I would like you to understand. I suppose you wouldn't imagine that the president of the SAO would write the two thousand one hundred and a few statements or write them up for the first time, and such an observation was made that the auditors would then look for evidence. That is not the way the system works; I think that this could have been more in the heat of political debate. So that's a false assumption, I have to say. They're sending us legislative amendments, so don't do it to us. The trees will wail. We also see when the amendments are submitted, we also monitor the information system of the Parliamentary Office, and we do not specifically ask that it be sent to us, believe me, we follow it, we also keep it under the same evaluation as all Parliamentary minutes and other issues. What I think I should highlight is your comment on the foundations of Béla Turi-Kovács. We're about to have an evaluation, not a government order, and I'm telling you that we've carried out a number of checks that will allow us to carry out a risk-based assessment of what we're seeing at the foundations today. There is indeed a lot of risk in the foundation's operating model, and especially if there is public money there, so I will recommend this evaluation to you, which is expected to appear this year, just yesterday the appropriate management meeting discussed. The question of financial awareness that Andrea Varga-Damm raised: ethical financial awareness, I put that word there for a reason, because consciously you can also abuse financial intelligence and knowledge. The SAO specifically places the weight on the ethical side, but the question that you raised is in the regulatory context of the National Bank, who can take credit and how, we are giving an opinion on its control powers, i.e. micro-level controls, but in monetary policy, in macro-financial matters, obviously we cannot control it in accordance with the law. One of the Members indicated the shame of how well monetary policy and fiscal policy are in line. I would like to point out that the SAO only found that this was an advantage for the country at the time when we assessed this when our analysis was about this. And I think that in the economic growth that we consider to be more positive from the government side, you are underestimating this, or less stressed, it is important that the actors of the economy cooperate, so they are able to cooperate, foreigners and domestics, monetary policy and the state, state and large companies, public authorities and citizens; that a more customer-friendly situation is beginning to develop in the tax office, they all contribute to a more cooperative, stronger state operation. This may well be seen as a political assessment, if you do not believe so, but your objectivity is accepted, that our auditors have judged it this way, so they have assessed it, and I think that I can agree with that personally. The method of control has changed, said Andrea Varga-Damm. Yes, we wanted to change it because the international criteria and the efficiency of Hungarian control have changed, and you have set a very serious criterion. The Court of Auditors was obliged in the new SAO Act in 11 to carry out an audit with consequences. And I say only one element: Btk. has become a concept of non-cooperation with the SAO, if it does not provide data, or if it refuses to correct the errors, it refuses to draw up a plan of action to be precise. I referred to this fact that the powers have been strengthened, and your legislators' intention has also indicated that the inspection organisations should act more decisively, and that this is less the conversation during the control, otherwise neither I nor anyone can control, nor the specific control and advice, can be separated, and cannot be confused. When we check, there's the principle of lying down, when we're past or not there, then you can consult, you can cooperate, that's the rule. There is also a regulated framework for cooperation during the inspection, and this is the power granted by law in the 15-day comment, which we would like to continue to enforce in the future. With regard to control of poverty, the signal may be misunderstood, but I would like to inform you here that, in an international context, in cooperation with several countries for the sustainable goals of the United Nations for 2030, there is a programme of checks to combat poverty, and I can also say here that the SAO does not go to anyone in an ambush. In addition to informing the inspector in advance before we ask for data, this system has been introduced, and every semester I will bring it personally to the current open president or vice-president, to the Speaker of Parliament or to the Vice-Presidents of Parliament, and I will consult on our control ideas, plans, and it will be public from that moment on, and I will tell Dániel Z. Karpát about the methodology. So there's a description of the type of inspection we're doing. I didn't mention this because nothing has changed since then in the international environment and in Hungarian relations, because it has to be met together. The report on the Foundation of the National Bank has already been published, just in the year 18, so I would just like to say that it is not factually true that the SAO did not check, as is the fact that Győr was checked, checked the districts and indeed internal control... I wanted to say one more sentence on the subject of corruption. On the subject of corruption, the Court of Auditors is the real instrument of preventive action. There has been a very serious legislative process in Hungary by this legislation and by the government, in particular with the active involvement of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior, in which legislation and the legislators are already trying to create such a place. This is something that we are very intensively checking, and in many municipalities, whether in Győr or in others, it is a serious problem to build an internal control system, it is not a simple thing. It takes a management knowledge, a discipline, and it causes problems for hospital directors, problems for museum directors, parties, companies. This type of regulatory environment and operation seems to have been committed by the Parliament since its accession to the European Union in 2004 to switch to such a system, and it has not been enough 15 years to switch, I must say. Therefore, when we say improvement in a corruption situation, we say that what has changed from zero year to year, what has become better, we try to say this, but we have to keep checking this, on a regular basis, not because we love it, I say Z. Karpat to Dániel, but because they simply do not want the legislation today, they do not know, they have no way to comply. [[13.40]] Thank you very much for your feedback on children's meals, health institutions and emergency care. Jenő Manninger, as rapporteur for the Economic Committee, I would also like to send a special signal. Yes, modernisation and digitalisation are the new challenges not only for the Court of Auditors, but for all of us. The transition to this would require a great deal of cooperation. I am asking you to support this resolution, because it is not only about the SAO's accounts, but also about strengthening the future direction. We're prepared for this. We started last year, we took great steps this year, but it will be necessary for the Parliament to confirm that we are on the right track. I think the Economic Committee voted in favour of this, thank you for that. And anyone who feels that I haven't been able to answer now, I will try to do so in writing. Thank you very much for your attention and for your patience. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-06-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on the implementation of the 2018 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is now taking place until closure. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/6265. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the representative of the Government has indicated in advance that he does not wish to present a position during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, notary of the Parliament, rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-64	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, As you said, this is T/6265. Bill No. 1 is a strange species of legislation, of which the Committee on Budgets is itself the author and the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the National Media Council. It is therefore important that the Authority has submitted its final accounts for the previous year by 31 May in accordance with the legal requirements. The Committee on Budgets discussed it at its meeting on 29 May and submitted it to Parliament in accordance with the laws. At the committee meeting, the committee decided by 9 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions. As usual, the bill submitted contains a total of four separate accounts. It is important to note that, in accordance with the law, the NMHH covers its expenditure from its own revenue and budgetary contribution, so the Media Act determines the revenue of the Authority on a guarantee basis. The frequency charges shall constitute their own revenue for the booking and use of identifiers, as well as the fees paid for official procedures and the supervisory fee. These fees are the basis for the administration's management. The total budget of the NMHH was HUF 34.3 billion, and revenues exceeded by HUF 30.8 billion and revenues were realised by the Authority. There was a surplus of HUF 240 million in fines, HUF 180 million in accumulation revenues, HUF 90 million in administrative service fees and HUF 100 million in supervisory fees, as planned, and a surplus of HUF 80 million in operating revenues. On the contrary, operating grants decreased by HUF 100 million compared to the planned budget allocation. The overall balance is the revenue surplus of half a billion forints. The total expenditure amounted to HUF 36 billion in 2018. That's 4.9 percent overachiever. There is a significant share of this in other operating expenditures, with a surplus of HUF 1.8 billion, while savings on investments amounted to some HUF billion. It is a much smaller budget for the Media Council. During the implementation of the Media Council's operating budget, revenues of HUF 475.9 million were generated. The vast majority of this is VAT revenue, which also appears on the expenditure side, as it is being paid into the central budget. The budget allocation was achieved by HUF 549.5 million. In fact, the vast majority of the revenue and expenditure appropriations managed by the Media Council include the media service fee collected by the media authority, but the revenue is further transferred to MTVA and financed by the Media mecenature. This appropriation has been overachieved quite significantly, with HUF 1 billion and HUF 638.2 million, which represents an overachievement of 46.3 percent. The reason for this was the launch of commercial radio service No.1, as the media service fee was much higher than the planned HUF 800 million. That's what's causing the surplus on this line. The revenue side of the 2018 budget of MTVA, HUF 92.8 billion, with budget and commercial revenue and HUF 4.6 billion, is a short-term loan of HUF 97.6 billion. The expenditure side was achieved in the same amount. The main revenues of MTVA are the public service contribution, which was achieved by HUF 71.2 billion in the same amount as the budget. The amount of the public service contribution was fixed by the Media Act in 2011. Since then, changes have been made only to the extent of inflation. At the expense of the revenue generated by the function of the MTV Fund, the Media Council, the Public Service Foundation, the Duna Media Service Provider, the Hungarian Rádió Művészeti Egyesei Kft., the Digitalisation Workshop Ltd., which operates the National Audiovisual Archive, and the resources necessary for the operation of the Public Service Media Academy Foundation constitute HUF 8.3 billion in total. The expenses of media services, support and asset management activities were completed in HUF 76.8 billion, of which HUF 17.2 billion were provided for persons, HUF 53.8 billion was spent in real estate and HUF 7.8 billion in investment. Dear fellow Members, In view of the fact that all four accounts were audited by an independent auditor and in their report it was found that the accounts submitted provide a real and reliable picture of the management of the financial situation in 2018, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to discuss and adopt the bill submitted. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-06-65	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-66	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group supports the 2018 legislative closing bill of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. We support all the ideas, all the numbers, the main amounts, the sub-budget chapters that President Lajos Szűcs has just presented to the House. We accept both the four budgets, the four budgetary accounts and the closing accounts included in the single budget proposal, i.e. the accounts of the NMHH, the Media Council, the appropriations managed by the Media Council and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, i.e. MTVA. [[13.50]] But on what basis do we support it? On the basis of our group's support for the closing report submitted, which has also been emphasised, Mr President, just now that the proposed discharge law has been examined, audited by an independent auditor and has made findings that have come to the conclusion that the accounts submitted show a real and reliable picture of the management and the financial situation. I would also like to inform my fellow Members that, after the general debate is concluded, we will hold a detailed debate on the bill at the cultural committee meeting next Tuesday. I would also like to inform you that when we discuss these accounts, the President of the Media Authority will be present regularly at the meeting of the Cultural Committee and will also be present at next week's committee meeting. If my fellow Members have technical questions about closing hours, they may ask the Cultural Committee meeting next Tuesday to answer them immediately, Madam President and colleagues. I look forward to this, ladies and gentlemen. Furthermore, as in the previous debates, the representative of the media authority is in the Chamber and is monitoring the current general debate. Thank you very much for your attention. Once again, the Fidesz Group proposes adoption. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-06-67	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, presented in detail the figures that this House is currently discussing on the basis of a bill that summarises the four accounts. We agree that this farming is good. Why can I say it's good? By the way, we have already said it at the Budget Committee in the interpretation of President László Varju, and I added that it is easy to wash brains out of a hundred billion. Because there is nothing here but the fact that you carry out government propaganda at a public service address, and you spend nearly a hundred billion forints of public money through four systems. Just to highlight a few specific elements of this bill: they operate this machine from nearly HUF 100 billion, of which 46 billion is on so-called remains. My colleague, Mónika Dunai, said that we should ask professional questions at the committee meeting, but I think that this should also be said here in plenary, because half of this HUF 46 billion is a resource spent on development projects. That's okay, because it needs to be improved, but the other half is remnants of future liabilities. To what future obligation do they constitute a remnant of more than HUF 20 billion? Are you preparing for the next election? It was just a rhetorical question. It should be noted that MTVA finally managed from HUF 98 billion in 2018, with HUF 71 billion in budget support and HUF 12 billion in public revenue redirected by NMHH. So it can be seen that public revenue, which is intended for public service purposes, is also used to inform Hungarian people, is also propaganda, and they are in fact desecrating these public service objectives. And we can see that propaganda is not only on large blue posters on the streets, but also on the streets of people who do not have other options, most of them are people living in smaller settlements, from MTVA, M1 and Kossuth Rádió, and they receive information that is not only serving public service purposes, but is absolutely sad and outrageous. Overall, I would like to say that there are structural problems in this system. The activities of the public service, NMHH, do not meet the objectives for which it was intended, so we cannot support the 2018 closure report. We have done this many times, we have indicated that we have been personally present with the Danube Media Service Provider, and I have also met with the CEO personally, together with my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm, who indicated that she would like to speak. He will probably talk about what we experienced there at the Danube Media Service. And one more small comment to the end: about as much money is spent on media supervision and propaganda as it is on total higher education, which is outrageous. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-06-69	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-70	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The detailed figures for this final report were discussed in detail by my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, so that I would not repeat the figures in the four accounts. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we believe that the NMHH carried out a meaningful professional work in 2018 to make information more efficient and meaningful for the Hungarian people. We should mention that challenge here in the 21st century. In the 20th century, in the era of the fourth industrial revolution, in the age of innovation, when infocommunication and fast access may become even faster and faster, where we are talking about the 5G mobile network, public wireless internet access, these systems become practically part of our everyday lives, then the country that lags behind in its capacity for innovation or digitalisation will obviously suffer a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis other countries and will be put at a step disadvantage in the fourth industrial revolution. That is why we believe that, thanks to the steps taken by the Hungarian Government, and specifically by the NMHH, Hungary is today placing a particular emphasis on discussing these issues and putting these issues to the fore. Our aim is to respond to these innovation issues and to provide information communication tools for everyone, and to continuously expand these opportunities. We know that as of 1 January 2018, the VAT on the Internet has decreased almost uniquely in Hungary from 18% to 5 percent. With this step, we have also strengthened our goal of making the Internet and Internet opportunities affordable and accessible to everyone in Hungary. We can see now that, thanks to the developments in recent years, there are numerous settlements where Hungarian people can enjoy public wireless internet access. In local governments, public institutions or even public spaces, this development is achieved. Thanks to the projects funded by the Hungarian government and the European Union, there will be another 142 free Wi-Fi points in Hungary in the near future. I think it is important to mention the increase in the digital competence of students and students and the development of their digital awareness. Here, too, different programs were launched. It is very important that the aim is that no Hungarian student should leave the school system without having the digital competence system necessary for his profession or for his further education. For this reason, we spend 14.5 billion forints on installing schools with smart devices and internet access to build this access in community spaces and the necessary classrooms. This has already been done in many places, and in many places it is the task of the near future. I would like to talk a little bit more about two projects. One is an eCall system harmonised at European level and included in the European legal system, in which NMHH played a major role last year. This is a complex, multi-player development, and it must be implemented uniformly throughout the European Union. In Hungary, the European Union regulation was transposed in 2018, and the harmonised eCall system and service started operating on 31 March 2018, so there is a continuous connection with the 112 emergency centre, as well as with the cars and smart devices equipped with it. I think this is a very important step forward and development. [[14.00]] The protection of young people in online data protection projects has also received a great deal of emphasis in the last year's activity of the NMHH in the promotion campaign for the age group between 11 and 18. The Internet hotline legal aid service, where the second highest case number or case number of all time arrived in 2018, also shows the need for such a system. Most of the cases here were data abuse, large companies were exposed to different data-gathering personalities or organisations, or unauthorised disclosure, data abuse was the subject of most of the notifications. I think that such a media campaign for the age of 11-18 and a promotional campaign and an Internet campaign are absolutely necessary. Therefore, the NMHH also renewed its partnership with the SOS Children's Village Hungary and continued the joint projects that started. After examining the notifications, the Internet hotline and NMHH staff have obviously taken the necessary steps. It is important to say that the effectiveness of action against illegal content, damaged content, possibly criminal or criminal content is an important objective. I do not think that there is a debate between us here that we need to take strict action against new forms, online harassment, Internet crime and data abuse. Therefore, I think that the NMHH has done very well in this area as well. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the protection of children, that there are also training centres in Budapest and Debrecen, and there are additional places already planned. Here, in studios equipped with modern devices, the school-age group prepares media content with experienced media literacy teachers, understanding through decision-making situations that arise during creation how the content, an advertisement, a radio programme, a television programme, a film or any kind of content that they may encounter is created. In 2018, more than 10,000 students from 280 schools participated in the work of the two centres, thus contributing to increasing media awareness. The activities of the NMHH child protection Internet Round Table should be mentioned. It fits the subject I've been discussing for the past few minutes. I think, for the sake of our children and grandchildren, child protection on the Internet has also become a separate activity or a separate circle that needs to be given special attention. We have to deal with this here too, we have to deal with the current and responsibility of the government, and I think it is important that this task is brought together by the NMHH, the media authority, and tried to coordinate the round table so that child protection in online space is also strongly strengthened. These are issues that may be less mentioned here in relation to the closing accounts, but I think it has been an important activity for the NMHH. He spent some of his budget on this, so it's good to know. On the rest, my fellow Members Lajos Szűcs and Mónika Dunai have already spoken. The KDNP fraction also supports the closing account. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[Bence of Tordai will be replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]]
u2019-11-06-71	Thank you very much. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, We cannot go without saying that none of the representatives of the government are taking part in this debate. Unfortunately, I should say that I would like to say that if the government did not have an opinion on this, it would be better if we did not have one either, because there is not much to say or almost nothing to say about this report. The National Assembly also discusses the bill on the implementation of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority (NMHH), the Media Council and MTVA's single budget for 2018 and the proposal on next year's budget. It is therefore worth comparing and comparing these two, because on the basis of this you can clearly see on which lines the amount of public money that can be spent increases with those concerned. In 2018, NMHH paid HUF 7.3 billion for personal allowances, but it already wants to pay significantly more than HUF 10 billion in 2020. This could be seen as a very significant increase in two years. At the same time, the Authority will be able to manage with noticeably more money than last year, with almost HUF 38,5 billion in 2020. The structure of the planned expenditure is similar, but we can also see some of the more interesting spending plans. These include over 1 billion... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I know I want the two at the same time, and I said, Member, that we can find interesting links between the 2018 accounts and the 2020 budget. But I told you at the beginning, Congressman. These include more than 1 billion HUF, which the NMHH intends to use to acquire property in Budapest. In this connection, it is worth knowing exactly where and for what purpose the public authority intends to purchase a building, and why this is necessary. The reasons for the proposal are silent on the details of this, even though in 2018, two properties were purchased, one of which was from MTVA in Cosmos. So we can see that the authority's real estate assets would continue to grow. The big question is why a HUF 1 billion property purchase is necessary. In addition to the purchase of the property, NMHH supported MTVA in other ways in 2018. In spite of the fact that the Parliament supports MTVA every year by more than HUF 70 billion, and it was said here that the authority managed well, the fund is clearly unable to manage in a reliable, responsible and transparent manner after all these years. What did we see last year? That, in addition to this amount of support, even the NMHH had to support the public media with HUF 12 billion, which still could not come out of the money, since even billions of loans had to be taken to keep the organization operational. Here, allow me to tell you an interesting story. I wrote to the authorities, because it turns out that if school groups want to go to the headquarters of MTVA, the public building, they will receive income from the school groups, they will have to pay the children an entry fee of nearly 900 HUF to go into the building with Hungarian taxpayers' money and look around. Well, I don't think it's funny that tax-paying families support an institution, and if the kids want to visit it, they have to pay for it. Let us say that in the meantime we see that we are throwing away tens and then 100 billion forints a year to maintain this system. It is worth stopping here for one more moment, because the public media, which now manages from nearly HUF 100 billion a year, and which Fidesz managed to do its job with discrediting leaders at the head of its own mouthpiece, from a fraction of it before 2010. Only a few songs from this year: Hungarian Radio Support 6 billion HUF, MTV and Duna Television Support 9.8 billion HUF. Ladies and gentlemen, It is possible to examine which public media worked better, more cost-effectively, in a more qualitative way, and how many people in Hungary have watched the public media, let's say before 2010, and how many people are watching or listening to these channels today. The Hungarian Parliament originally planned the budget of this MTVA for 80 billion in 2018, but we see in the accounts that this was achieved over 97.5 billion. I wouldn't call the budget very disciplined and efficient, which finally went 20 percent compared to the budget approved by Parliament. We can't talk about responsible farming. I fear that, despite the fact that you are here now, in front of this House, another budget proposal by MTVA, we should rightly fear that the institutions of public media will not be able to comply with this. Instead of 80 billion, the planned expenditure is 93 billion forints, so it also adds up nicely in two years. We have to fear that this will not be possible with new loans, with additional extraordinary subsidies, and that we will ultimately reach about HUF 100 billion in funding. Dear Parliament, I believe that, despite discussing these allocations year after year, despite the criticisms that we are presenting as opposition representatives, what we are experiencing with these state funds, we say that you are not taking this into account. They will give the praises and they will vote in the same way. On the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party, we cannot accept either the closing report or the budget for 2020. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[14.10]]
u2019-11-06-73	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, lead speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Interestingly, we opposition representatives are discussing this institution and the law in such a way that we cannot go in there. So we need to come up with a point of view and we need to say that this farming is okay or not, but that is where the opposition representative cannot set foot. Here I would like to point out that on 13 October there was a municipal election in Hungary. There are more than three and a half million Hungarians whose mayor is no longer fidesz, but the mayors of those cities and districts, including the Mayor of Budapest, district mayors, rural mayors, have not set foot in the building of Magyar Television since then. You are also trying to manage an institution here on our taxpayers' money, on our voters' taxpayers' money, in which, by the way, members of opposition voters simply cannot enter their feet. Now imagine what would happen in reverse here. Congressman Nacsa smiles at that. Imagine if, say, a change of government would happen sooner or later, because everyone will fail, so I would like to ask you to imagine the situation now that a next government is coming, which says that you cannot enter the Hungarian Television or the Hungarian Radio. What would they do? They'd set the city on fire. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Zoltán Demeter: What are you saying?]] As it was done in 2006. But by the way, let's compare this 90 billion forint we spent on this story by saying how much the country spends on adult education or how much the country spends on home care, or how much it spends on healing children with muscular dystrophy. This HUF 90 billion serves no purpose other than your propaganda interests and the publication of your propaganda publications. So all kinds of NMHH child protection programs and other services, Internet-enhancing stuff, if it's basically nothing but lies. There is no one-minute news in which opposition politicians will appear. If there is no migration in 35-40 seconds at the moment, it is only due to the fact that an international organisation has been knocking on the nose of the Orbán government in this matter. Moreover, this is done by increasing costs, so every year we Hungarian taxpayers and opposition voters have to pay more and more for your television and radio to work. This is happening, I say, not only because opposition politicians cannot go in there, but they do not even acknowledge the terrible drop in ratings over the last ten years. It is not possible to compare what the ratings of Magyar Television were before 2010 and how much is now. The reason for this is not only that you're pushing a lie propaganda, but is it because you've completely missed public media? ! I wouldn't call it public media, the general standard of public media. They even shut down the TV channel, the channel called M3, where, by the way, theatre broadcasts, TV games, sports broadcasts and more could be revisited from the quite fantastic archives of Magyar Television. For example, I think it was also a serious omission on your part. I would also consider it very, very important to note in this case that this structure must be changed. It is not possible to maintain so many television channels that their ratings are virtually undetectable, it is not possible to continuously produce radio news services where opposition politicians can only appear in discrediting tone, and where your alleged experts will then run into the studio to say again by the independent analyst political scientist, independent economist and Mr Bakondi, who sees 100,000 migrants at the Hungarian border every week and other lies appear in the media. [[You can hear a sneeze.]] Thank you very much for the agreeable sneeze. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Cheers! You have to say that at a time like this!]] Yeah, yeah. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Thank you very much.]] This does not change the situation. So I would, of course, suggest that the screening of this should, sooner or later, be initiated by opposition parties. Nor can it be left, of course, that opposition politicians cannot set foot on public television or on Kossuth radio. For example, I was last in Hungarian Radio one month after the 2018 election. Then we had a live fight, of course, with Fidesz's slogans and speeches, and then they never called me on the radio again. This is the fate of a representative of an opposition party in Hungary today. I really don't want it to come to this if, sooner or later, you turn around and there's so much anger in people that they're beating on you. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Don't threaten me!]] All that stuff they did to the press. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Don't threaten me!]] And the media. I'm not threatening the congressman, I'm just telling you that what's going on in the public media is completely unacceptable. It's not good for anything, it's not used anywhere else, only in dictatorships and only in dictatorships. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-06-75	I am glad that the humanist wishes were extended by comment and comment. In addition, I would like to ask you to observe the house rules. Since we have reached the end of the keynote speeches, two-minute speeches are now possible. More people want to live with that. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-76	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It's no coincidence that government representatives aren't sitting in the velvet chairs right now. They don't usually sit here in any of the debates when it comes to the accounts of the media authority. This is because of the principle that the media is independent. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] It is the procedure that we are pursuing at the moment, that is to say, the media authority on closing accounts, and because we have now agreed a little bit on the draft budget for 2020, it is presenting proposals to the House by sending them to the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Budgets is discussing them, and he is presenting them to this House. We are now in the general debate of this bill, and as I said, the next phase will be that next week, Tuesday, we will have a detailed debate in the Committee on Culture, and then we will continue to go through the sections of the house rules as usual. So this has been the case, and it is true, that the representatives of the government do not want to exert any influence on the House in accepting this House's budget for 2018 and in supporting the 2020 budget in this version presented. The other... but now I see my time is running out, so I'll continue in my next speech. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-06-77	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, two minutes.
u2019-11-06-78	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would refuse to have Zsolt Gréczy threaten us with violence and in different ways. This must be strongly rejected. This style in Népszabadság has just gone, but here it has been less; although we have seen quite a lot from you recently. The special charm is that the honourable right-wing fellow Members applaud the speech in which Zsolt Gréczy, after the events at the radio station in 2006, said that the civil side and the protestors were to blame for any incident there. Honourable Member, you have fired eyes and swords of peaceful protestors after these events. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You're going to lose this lawsuit for the tenth time!]] And you were free to run around in a public building, that's the difference between the two. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You will lose him for the tenth time! You're gonna pay millions!]] Maybe that's why he's grown. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You will pay millions!]] The NMHH budget, because you had to install new doors because you destroyed them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Zsolt Gréczy: You will pay millions!]]
u2019-11-06-79	Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK, in two minutes!
u2019-11-06-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In 2006, Fidesz MEP András Nyitray complained at the Police Committee's meeting about why the police did not use sharp ammunition, which tried to save the order and security of Budapest. [[14.20]] Look back in the record, there you are, András Nyitray, your fellow Member, trying to get me shot in the crowd with live ammo. Send a message to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. On the other hand, a lot of people have already paid millions of HUF for the text, Ferenc Gyurcsány won these lawsuits in the final terms. So I hope the lawyers are listening, but if not, I'm going to draw your attention to your contribution to the register. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-06-81	No applications for two-minute speeches. The speeches by Members seeking a normal word will follow. [[Zsolt Gréczy to Lőrinc Nacsa: You will still pay!]] I always enjoy listening to your debate, but I regret to draw your attention to the fact that this item is about the implementation of the 2018 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. I'm asking you to hold on to that for the most part. It is not difficult for me to give the floor first to Andrea Varga-Damm, Congresswoman Jobbik, please.
u2019-11-06-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Laughing:]] It was very funny to hear that the government is independent of the media, and that's why it's not here. But it should not be surprising that any opposition representative, when it comes to the annual budget of the Media Council and its associated organisations, is quite angry, simply because they receive an enormous amount of public money, and virtually no result of public service can be produced by this organization. We're talking about an organizational system, because there's a Media Council, there's a media authority, there's a field trip, and there's an MTVA. This budget is made up of these four items. It should be said that when we read the figures about the Media Council and MTVA, it is perfectly natural for an opposition representative to be angry, as what important social programs the government does not implement, or many of our countrymen in real need, either because of their illness or because of their life situation, who could be helped with these funds, who therefore does not get access to this. I like to stay on the subject and on the subject and draw attention to a few questions or circumstances. On the lines of the Media Council, there's a $45 billion reserve every year. Every year, I ask Monika Karas, who is usually unable to answer, but who takes one of her specialists or brings them with him, and she answers why she has to carry this reserve in front of them year after year. Every year, two thirds of Parliament votes for the money they ask for. Then, during the year, as you can see from this report, during the year, the government changes the appropriations to order, always raises them. So there's no problem in that either, so they don't get the money. I've been thinking a lot about why this is necessary. Then I realized it was the price of fear. Because they want this team to have a reserve of HUF 45 billion in budgetary resources, which can be spent virtually unlimited so that they can somehow operate it at least during the transitional period. There's no other reason. There are investments written there, there are all kinds of unknown appropriations written there, but I apologize, what hasn't this government built yet, which it wanted to build? I can't imagine what an investment is, either last year or the next year, because the reserve will have to be pushed in front of us even for the next year in the next bill, so that virtually no one can tell what it will be spent on. However, MTVA's budget is another topic, another line, another table. Well, this chart is a miracle. What do we see in this chart? What we see is that they planned over 80 billion, then they modified it to 99 billion, and then they ended up delivering 97 billion. If you'd like to see what kind of real budget this was: 72 billion budgeted, up to 84 billion, and see a miracle! He spent that $84 billion. This is funding from the budget, isn't it? But what's in this whole package that you've been putting in, it's the mirror of the system that I'm about to talk about. Please tell me by 2018 that MTVA has a commercial income of HUF 7.9 billion. 7.9 billion forints. That sounds very nice, that would be a nice number, although it's also true that you're getting ten times the budget, and I assumed that maybe this is 7.9 billion because why not? revenue from advertising, perhaps. What did I do? I've looked at the amount of advertising per minute for the 6 media platforms operating in the MTVA system. There is no per-minute fee, there is a per-second fee, if you like to watch the price scale, and this is on average, because there are a variety of time bands and lots, but on average the 30-second commercial advertising fee is 432,000 forints. And imagine the number that came out by 2018. Do you know how many seconds MTVA and its team were able to sell on a media platform in 2018? I'll tell you. 8.1 seconds a day. I like the sound of that, that's all. Which, you know, means what? It means that all the advertising you see is financed from additional budgetary resources, because commercial revenue cannot come from the budget. And if we look at the 2020 budget, we see that this will not actually increase, because there is only 8.3 billion additional revenue that they think is in trade. So I think that in Hungary, where nearly 100 billion is slowly spent only on MTVA plus another 80 billion on the Media Council because these are two completely separate moving organisations, then let them tell us where the quality is, the result is worth spending it for. They always talk about these big words that documentaries are being produced, social information programmes are being made, and Hungarian films will be made by creating the field tour; of course, they had a budget, but there was not a single scenario, as we learned from the representatives assigned to it in the Committee on Budgets. So I ask the government representatives not to be surprised that when these numbers and the result that millions of people can see on the screens every single day and hear on the radio's wavelength, they cannot deliver that quality and forgive me, but it is a fact again, they cannot argue with that again. If I look at all, say, election years in the last 30 years, as a public media system has much more public service tasks than a non-choice year in an election year. If I look at the election years only in the previous 30 years, from 14 backwards, and the budgetary resources spent on public service media and multiply it to present value, then this, which is in the budget law year after year, is three times the highest previous budget line. Three times! So this is such a crazy number that it could be expected that someone would come to the Parliament or to the committee and show the result that Hungarian taxpayers would have to spend so much money on this base. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-06-83	Thank you very much. Mr Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member's speech, please.
u2019-11-06-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to address the 2020 budget in more detail, and here only a few comments are allowed on the basis of what has been said so far in the context of the 18th discharge. On the one hand, I am willing to believe that the numbers in the tables in the report are numerically correct. [[14.30]] I am prepared to believe that the accounting discipline is respected, everything is written down, and I believe that to such depth and accuracy that the President of the SAO, who was here for a long time today, would lick all ten of his fingers, because that is the level of order, but that is not what we are talking about. For example, when we talk about farming and good farming, I think we should look at what the public money is spent on, what we give to the NMHH, the Media Council, MTVA, and what happens to the money they generate as their own income. I'll give you a few of these examples that you might want to mess with, and you guys need to do a little more research, and you might find out there's a lot of question marks there. Let's just say, if we look at the fact that in the public media, although I really think that's not a good term, and I think that Zsolt Gréczy is right about that, that it would be better to call it the public media, but I'm going to put it in parentheses, which is who owns the company, companies sell the advertising time, or we're going to see who its suppliers are for certain shows, because some of the shows are being organized for entrepreneurs who bring the tape, and we just have to play it out, that no, always turns out how I should put it delicately with Fidesz? We're talking about the companies of people who are very well-friended, who are billing a lot of money on a very regular basis. Speaking of which, I don't think farming is that good. I believe that the bills you're submitting are fine, but I don't think this is a good use of public money and not a proper use of public money for responsible farming. I am very pleased to hear what Mónika Dunai said that the government is not here because it symbolizes that they are so far from public media. For example, the lady who had worked in the public media said such reports about her work because she had left the public media - that on one occasion I was assigned to look for data on the terrible new diseases that migrants are bringing into Europe. Very rarely there were such cases, I found only figures for a very low number of cases, but I had to search until an expert in subpoena told me how dangerous all these African and Arab people were. Or another quote from him: in the blocks involving left-wing politicians, it was expected that we would make them look ridiculous in as many situations as possible. I basically didn't have to deal with politics, but no one else was so lucky. There are some people who deliberately put elements in your report that you knew were going to be cut out of there just to reassure your conscience. The majority are not able to identify with editing practices, but they are forced to make compromises for a living. And he said a lot of those things. By the way, when you're talking to people that are unofficially because you're still familiar with the public media, you're saying the same things that you're told to get from colleagues you might want to sit here, so it's not entirely true that it's so independent of the government, because that's not the government message boxes, so the messages are going to takkra in every show. It's like Pravda, that we're slowly looking at what MTVA says, and we're not looking at what Gergely Gulyás says at the Government Info anyway. Unfortunately, it's not an independent media, it's not a public service media, it's a public media. One more small remark: once I was so brave, I dared say that public media or public media regularly produce news, forge and explain, and therefore deserve zero forints. And I was sued by MTVA. We went to the court, and that no, in the court's judgment, I won the lawsuit, of course, so they rejected MTVA's action, in final terms, the explanatory statement states that not only as a public figure can I say this, MTVA is forced to tolerate it, no; it is stated in the judgment that during the trial I proved that I did produce news regularly, explain, forgery, so the action is rejected by the court, divides good day, and merry Christmas.
u2019-11-06-85	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Congressman Szűcs, as rapporteur, if he would like to reply now. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs says no.]] He's showing me he didn't. I declare, Honourable Parliament, that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2020 will follow until closure. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/7839. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the representative of the Government has indicated in advance that he does not wish to present a position during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, notary of the Parliament, rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, I'm gonna try to frame the story a little bit, and I'm gonna tell you again, see if it's gonna go into your heads, that the Committee on Budgets is submitting this bill because otherwise, the media authority itself can't submit a bill as an independent organization. It is certainly worth saying, and you too, that it may not be a problem if you recall that we have already voted on the number itself once, because the good part of the country's budget, in the Parliamentary Bill of 2020, has already been included in these figures and that is why the NMHH has prepared its budget proposal for next year. As a matter of note, of course, all spent forints are reported before the commission, and this is a general and detailed accounting of the budget itself in the draft law on NMHH's closing accounts. Let's start with T/7839. A proposal for a regulation. The National Media and Infocommunication Authority should cover its operation with its own revenue and budgetary contribution. According to law, the Authority's single budget includes both the budget of the NMHH, the Media Council of NMHH and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. The president of the NMHH sent the budget, which was negotiated by the Committee on Budgets at its meeting on 29 October, to Parliament by 10 votes in favour, 4 votes against, without abstentions. There is often a question as to why the Authority's budget is not part of the central budget. Among other things, the Media Act governing the status of the Authority seeks to ensure the autonomy and independence of the institution through a separate budget. Therefore, the legislator provides it with its own revenue, such as fees for the use of the frequency, the recording and use of identifiers, supervisory fees, procedural fees and fines collected. The new feature of the current budget is the addition of a new item, the Television Film Mecenature, which was created by the amendment of the Media Act which entered into force on 1 January 2019. The fund manager is the Television Film College. The aim of its creation was to promote the production of feature films, films, documentary films, educational films and animation films primarily intended to be published in the media service, thereby ensuring that the greatest possible number of citizens can receive valuable films, including films showing Hungarian history and Hungarian culture. The total budget of this is HUF 3.5 billion, 10 percent of this can be spent on its own operating costs, this is HUF 350 million, and the remaining 90 percent, HUF 3 billion 150 million for film support. [[14.40]] The NMHH's core activity revenue shall be the fees paid for the use of the frequency, the connection and use of the identifiers, the supervisory fee, the procedural fees and the fines collected. The expected revenue will be HUF 34.4 billion in 2020. This is the same as the total amount of expenditure, which represents a significant proportion of staff allowances and related employer contributions and social contributions taxes. The appropriation for personal allowances is HUF 10 billion, while the employer's contributions are HUF 2 billion and HUF 50 million. The allocation of staff allowances and contributions was planned with a total of 700 staff. The investment envelope is HUF 4.8 billion, with significant investment in the field of measuring services and information technology. Turning to the budget of the Media Council: HUF 197.8 million can be used to cover direct operating costs. This includes the staff allowances, contributions, the framework of experts assisting in their professional activities and the planned support for the functioning of the co-regulatory bodies of the Media Council. The total revenue and expenditure of the appropriations managed by the Media Council is HUF 1.6 billion. MTVA's budget includes HUF 93 billion 364 million on the revenue and expenditure side in terms of cash flow. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, As a rapporteur, the Committee on Budgets requests that the bill be discussed and subsequently adopted by the Parliament. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-06-87	Thank you very much. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First, Mónika Dunai, lead speaker of Fidesz, can give his opinion. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-88	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the draft budget of the NMHH for 2020 and considers it suitable for a general and detailed debate. I would like to ask my fellow Members once again when discussing both the previous agenda and the current agenda, that if they have specific questions from which I regret only one or two of them arrived at the previous agenda, the others were general phenomena, they should be put on the agenda at the cultural committee meeting on Tuesday, and the president or economic director of the media authority and his colleagues can give them a specific professional answer. I saw in the previous debate and now that my fellow Members were more generally concerned with criticism, which they have, of course, the right to do, and we are in a democracy, not talking about the specific budget presented in 2018 and now the budget for 2020 and closing accounts. Allow me, as lead speaker, to draw attention to one item in particular. We are very pleased that the previous four small sub-budgets, a separate budget, have already been published in the draft budget for next year in this single budget of the NMHH, which is the budget allocation for the television film minenature, which was a very old desire, and which we managed to legislate last year. In other words, there must be a special unity to deal with the significant events and creations of Hungarian culture, Hungarian literature, Hungarian history, and a good part of the surplus, which is also a surplus in the single budget, is because this item has been designed here for the time being, and the NMHH has planned it for this single budget. [[Mrs. Potochanya Anita Kőrösi intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal submitted and, of course, we look forward to the comments and to the specific issues at the Committee on Culture on Tuesday. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-06-89	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2020 NMHH budget, which we have already heard from my fellow Member, Lajos Szűcs, contains figures for the year 2020 not only for the NMHH, but also for the MTVA, the Danube Media Service Provider, the Media Council and the Public Service Foundation, which I do not wish to repeat, but I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to some figures. Let us first look at the NMHH budget, which will increase by nearly 10 percent by 2020, from 34.6 to 34.4 billion forints, which is due to investment growth. So you can see that the NMHH is developing 2.25 billion for new measuring instruments, one billion for smaller costs in rem and half a billion for labour costs. So this is an additional budget from investments and this type of increase, which will be covered by an increase in revenues from frequency charges of nearly HUF 3 billion and, by the way, by an increase in operating revenues of the remaining amount, so this is covered. I would like to refer back to the T/6265. , which contains a reserve of HUF 46 billion at the end of 2018. This could mean what my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm has already pointed out that this is a rolled reserve, so that we could reduce the budget support of more than HUF 70 billion that will be granted to both MTVA and NMHH, and this could, of course, be used for other purposes. After all, as I said in my previous speech, the public service is only in the name of the public service. Let's see, the Media Council has seen operating budgets fall by HUF 54 million, which is a 7-8 percent decrease, and the decline in VAT expenditure, and a HUF 200 million reduction in an appropriation, which is 12.5 percent. This is due to the fact that the media service awards will be awarded to the Media Council, but it will continue to refer them to MTVA, so it will migrate. As my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai, said, and we are also pleased to see that some quality film, i.e. TV film, has finally appeared as a new form of support. Of course, it is very important for quality films to be made, but from what? We can see that this is a $3.5 billion sum, which is visible in the budget. However, there is a significant decline in the media field, a 60 percent decrease, with only 1.3 billion forints left. It may not be a coincidence, because smaller televisions, local rural televisions, have been able to apply for grants and amounts from here, and this huge reduction further undermines the possibilities for the public service to be truly fulfilled in this conglomerate. Let's watch MTVA for the last time. This was a surprising turn of events in terms of amounts, after many years it did not grow greatly at first, but only by HUF 0.65 billion, but then we found that this is not entirely the case, that there is not only this slightly more than half a billion HUF increase in MTVA's budget, because what happened? We are talking about a total of HUF 93.3 billion, of which HUF 77.3 billion was planned for the production of media content, which, by the way, increases by HUF 2.6 billion compared to the previous year. [[14.50]] So the only reason why MTVA's budget has increased so little is because the Television Film Mecenature is in a separate chapter, so the increase is so low. Overall, I also said in the previous debate our concerns about the concerns that the Jobbik Group has been having for years now, and the echoes from the opposition benches, that the Jobbik Group is not only able to support the 2018 report, but also the 2020 NMHH budget. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-06-91	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker at KDNP. Here.
u2019-11-06-92	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. Dear Parliament, I would just like to say very briefly that the framework number was already known to everyone at the time of the negotiation and adoption of the 2020 budget, which is already decided by the majority of Parliament this summer, so this is already guaranteed, and here we can see or negotiate a more detailed breakdown of the four sub-headings. On operation and principles, I think that we have already said a lot in the previous agenda, and I would just like to highlight the three areas that I have already said on the last agenda: on the one hand, the mecenature programme and, on the other hand, the NMHH's activity in online child protection, and its activities for media awareness, on the other hand, are also funded in the next year's budget. So not only this year's resources and last year's resources are available for both the field, child protection and media awareness, but also its budget for NMHH is growing in this area, precisely so that in these important areas, which characterizes the mecenature or child protection or media awareness, additional programmes and extended programmes can be launched. So the single budget is supported by the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-06-93	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speeches by the lead speaker, Honourable Parliament. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. So I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go.
u2019-11-06-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the beginning, I would like to say that Lajos Szűcs is absolutely right, and that is why I do not think anyone hurt him. I mean, by the power of the law, we have to do this on the Committee on Budgets... if an opposition representative were to be the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, it would still have to be submitted from there. So that's a clear line. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Opposite! Lőrinc Nacsa: He is oppositional now!]] So that's what the law requires. Oh, is it Laszlo Varju now? I'm sorry. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: You don't want to!]] That proves I'm right. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He just doesn't want to work!]] Or we could agree. Excuse me. So, it's totally fine, it's not a problem in itself, I think. And the Committee on Budgets really didn't hurt you, and it's not gonna hurt you. The problem here is that you, Fidesz Members, will vote for it here in plenary. Obviously, that's what we're arguing about in the first place. The other thing that Mónika Dunai said was that, on the one hand, he was waiting for the details, and, on the other hand, we actually received the invitation to the Cultural Committee, and I saw that the representation and delegation of the NMHH was coming. They usually appear in quite a large number, and they can be asked in more detail there. The only reason I brought this up is because if we look at the agenda, there is in addition to this item on the agenda that it is a general debate, and this is the genre of Parliament, when we talk about a particular proposal in general, the environment in which it is possible for people who watch mediation over the Internet to try because, if I am right, it is no longer broadcast elsewhere to show what our problem is in general with the proposal. And the detailed discussion phase will indeed take place on the committee. Well, then I'd like to talk a little bit more about this proposal. Indeed, as has been said here, there are basically five major blocks in this proposal. This includes the budget of the NMHH as an authority for 2020, the Media Council, the management of the Media Council, the mecena tournament competitions and the budget of MTVA for 2020. All in all, which I have absolutely no problem with, is a tournament contest. We have already seen in the past that the available support is being used well enough to make television films, series and documentaries. I also remember the previous reports, when they tell me what awards have been won at various festivals, at least some of these works. I have absolutely no problem supporting television movies or TV shows from state resources. I already have bigger problems with the other four. I'd like to start from where I started last year, as I remember it, that the NMHH has a very good document:, NMHH Strategy 2018-22, this is the title. There's a cloud of words in here... [[He's showing me a piece of paper.]] I didn't enlarge it so that I wouldn't get punished for illegal demonstration, showing what values the NMHH thinks are valid for you. What are the words here in big letters? Independence, team play, responsibility, partnership, credibility, transparency, professional cooperation. So the NMHH thinks they're his values. Well, to tell you the truth, I'd think this self-esteem is pretty false, I don't think it's true or just very inside out. Independence has just been discussed what I think, so I wouldn't analyze it for a long time, I think it's pretty clear, and I really don't think anyone who watches public media shows or looks at the decisions of the Media Council is that this conglomerate can be considered anything but independent. And then the next thing you know, team play. What I can tell you is that, without a doubt, the government and Fidesz are very good teamplayers at NMHH and MTVA. Just to give you concrete examples to match Mónika Dunai: I remember the names of radios such as Radio 1, Broadway Radio and Radio 88 and I could list the names of different radios from the last few years. There were operators whose contracts were not extended on such grounds by virtue of such hair. There were, surprisingly, radios close to the government that could function as pirate radios, and the authorities refused to get out and confiscate, as in other cases, their devices, because that's how pirate radios are handled. There were radios that simply wanted to change their name, but since they weren't kissing, they pulled away like sloppy dough on his case. There were radios where the court specifically stated that the authority had granted them concession rights in violation of its internal rules. And that's when Monika Karas always says before the committee that we're going to include court judgments in our day-to-day decision-making mechanism and practice, which is in itself fine, and what's missing is that after that she says it's good, but on the one hand, I apologize and apologize to the people against whom we've dealt with the illegal procedure, and I'm resigning today. Because this has happened more than once. And from here on out, it's very difficult to see the NMHH, the Media Council, as such an independent organization that works so well, because apparently it doesn't, in team play with the Fidesz and the government. They claim that partnership is their great value. Yeah, well, it's clear from the examples you've given before that they're very, very good partners with whom they want to be good partners. [[15.00]] They are allowed to make decisions in violation of their own internal operating rules, sometimes in an illegal manner, which the court will then determine, only against those who do not like, they simply play the role of a pompous office. And another question is, let's say you're partners with journalists. There is a Hungarian journalist who is so red in the eyes of Monika Karas and her office. Once upon a time at the committee meeting, one of the main topics was to put a particular journalist, how shall I put it, on a blazer for asking questions. We also know very well that NMHH prefers not to report certain data and not to be treated in a transparent way. Let's just say that's what the president of NAIH has already stated that he would be kind enough to publish data of public interest in accordance with the law, in a normal way, because it also has problems with NMHH. Then there's professionalism, and that's what they think of themselves. Well, yeah. Based on the examples given above, it may be clear that professionalism here, let us say gently, is not very strong either the NMHH, the Media Council, or the MTVA, because there is no journalism, it is not journalism, it is propaganda. And there's also the cooperation that they think is their great value. Indeed, they can cooperate very well with whoever they want. For me, for example, it is shocking that they were able to leave without a word in cooperation with the government and the Fidesz MEPs, because the Parliament adopted a special rule to do so, so that they could do so, that KESMA was created, which overthrew the Hungarian media market. A media conglomerate was created that would not be acceptable anywhere in the developed world. By the way, earlier, when the NMHH and the Media Council were faced with the fact that RTL and Central Media were united, they could prevent that because they said that yes, it would create a media conglomeration with unacceptable overweight, and I can even agree with that. Only interestingly, when a much larger conglomerate is created on the Fidesz side, clearly such a pro-government media empire is created, then you and the NMHH solve the fact that you don't even have to negotiate, strictly respecting the letter of the law, and gracefully place your hands on, "Oop, it doesn't matter, it's renons, and you let it go." So that's how they work together, and that's how they're partners, and that's how they play on the team. And that's why I'm saying that, in my view, the mecenary support is fine, but neither the NMHH nor the Media Council nor the MTVA doesn't deserve these tens of billions, but they don't deserve a penny, simply because they don't function normally. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-06-95	Thank you very much. No one asked for a two-minute speech, so there will be further speeches by its representatives. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, Democratic Coalition, please.
u2019-11-06-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Of course, I am still in debt with the basic election: obviously, the Democratic Coalition will not support either the '18 or '20 series. What is important, however, and my fellow Member Szabó Szabolcs mentioned that here our colleague Mónika Dunai said as a quasi merit that there is no one here from the government because the NMHH is an independent organisation. I'd like to shed some light on how independent this organization is. The president of this organization is called Karas Monika, and you obviously don't think that anyone in this country who cares a little about the world of law or the media or public life would consider Monika Karas an independent person, especially Fidesz. Then I would just like to indicate that Monika Karas was, for example, Árpád Habony's lawyer, who led the Panel of Complaints during the first Orbán government. When he took over the Board of Complaints at the ORTT, he had a valid contract with the Fidesz party. In addition, what Szabolcs Szabó mentioned, and it happened in November last year, is quite unprecedented: if I remember correctly, hundreds of mediums with a market share of HUF 60 billion suddenly slipped into such a fidesz media holding, and NMHH left this without a word. Then, when the O1G war broke out within the Fidesen, and the men of Mr.Lajos Simicska v. Viktor Orbán formed a match in the area of TV2, of course they tried to help the Orbán wing of TV2 and to find out that the former party financer who was in conflict with Orbán... who apparently led the APEH as an extremely independent man during the first Orbán government, and had nothing to do with Fidesz, and did not get there as an independent personality, only because of his economical knowledge he got there to drive the APEH. So, that's how independent the NMHH is, that's how independent Monika Karas is. It's a salad like this again. It is, of course, that the Democratic Coalition has no problem presenting Hungarian literature, Hungarian history, Hungarian culture, and there are tender funds for it, and we can get to know the decisive turns of the Hungarian history, and we can get as many young people to know and love the written letter and history as possible, but it is not about how to lie, how to forge news, and how sometimes a reporter jumps out and tells you what you are really doing in Magyar Television. So the basic story in this system is that at some point one of the Fidesz MEPs will stand up and say that you did not support Hungarian history and Hungarian literature because these figures were voted off. Well, let's vote these numbers down because of this amount of money [[He's showing small units with thumbs and forefinger.]] to Hungarian literature and Hungarian history, and so large [[Its two arms are wide open and it shows a larger unit.]] There's a lot of money on how the government lied that day. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-06-97	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to speak, Honourable Parliament? [[For signal:]] I'm gonna say no. Thank you for your help in making this happen. The general debate is closed as no one has made any further comments. I'll ask the author if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-06-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, There is something charming about the fact that an independent representative talks about independent media, and as a journalist who is not at all independent in his career, he does not talk to us about independence, but that is not what I would like to talk about. I'd rather tell you a personal story as a punch line. April 8, 2001, you know, that's when I became a Member of Parliament in an interim election. The RTL Club at the time made a report with me, relatively long, we talked about a lot of things. Then, at night, when I went home after winning the election, I went to the RTL Club to see the report on the incriminated conversation. I'm not gonna tell you who the journalist was, I don't even want to hurt him on this thing in this time frame, but it wasn't exactly what I told you about the forgery. The next morning, I called this journalist at the RTL Club and he told me to pay close attention, and he might say a lot of things about your activities: "Be glad that this was said, because that is not what you asked me to do. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-06-99	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is not present in this Chamber, which means that he is the only one who has applied for the post- Agenda speech that we have completed today's work. Dear Parliament, So I thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good afternoon, everyone. Goodbye.
