u2019-06-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon, fellow Members. The 18th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. I also welcome our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our work today. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. A rough attack against the Hungarian military cemetery in Uzvölgy, from the KDNP Group, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-1	Mr President, Dear Minister, Fellow Members! Before I go to the brutal events of the known Uzvölgy, we have to answer the most important question: how do we deal with this serious problem and how do we not deal with it? We must avoid two wrong answers: indifferent silence and reciprocation like attack. I had the opportunity to speak to the Hungarian politicians in Transylvania last week, and I saw that their attitude was a good answer to this question, a firm but calm attitude. On the one hand, Parliament's support was withdrawn from the government and it was strongly expressed, and on the other hand, with a responsible view, they try to avoid the greatest danger, generalization, and thus to confront the Hungarian-Romanian population in Transylvania, and to corrupt the relationship between the two countries. Let's look at the facts. On June 6, three serious acts took place: vandal burial, the abuse of Hungarians and the shouting of chauvinist passwords. There it became clear that it was the action of a narrow group of chauvinists, and their aim was to wipe out the Hungarian past from Transylvania, and, of course, the Hungarian meaning. We are right to expect the Romanian authorities to prevent further similar events. In the military cemetery in Uzvölgy, we know that Hungarian, Austrian and German soldiers who died in the First and Second World Wars rest, but most of them are Hungarians, according to the contemporary cemetery sketch where the vandalizing group assumes Romanian deceased and placed corresponding symbols there. The Romanian claim, I mean, that there are a large number of Romanian soldiers buried there, has so far failed to prove it to anyone. If there is no chauvinist intention, the question can be handled briefly and calmly. We need to know that the care of the war tombs has international practice, and there are bilateral treaties, including a Romanian-Hungarian contract; this must be observed. That is to say, you have to give respect, and you don't have to do barbaric damage. We also complied with this agreement, even when we renovated more than 400 Romanian soldiers' graves in Hungary. For a long time, the competent Romanian authorities have not responded to our repeated requests for a solution. The proposal of the Hungarian body responsible for the care of the military graves is very simple: those involved should meet on the spot, explore the nationalities of the deceased, and give them all respect for man and soldier; and the Romanian authorities should not allow chauvinist hatred to prevail. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-06-11-2	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, In response to the speech by the Head of the Group before the agenda, we will hear the answer from Minister Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me say that according to the position of the Hungarian Government, everything that happened in the Uzvölgy last week is unacceptable, and the process that led to last week's events is also unacceptable. We find it unacceptable to embarrass graves, we find the abuse unacceptable, we find it unacceptable to falsify historical facts consciously, and we find it unacceptable the violence that was used there in the cemetery of Uzvölgy against Hungarians, so that the Romanian official authorities have done nothing to prevent this violence. I don't think it's possible to argue that there's been violence. If someone has looked at just a few seconds of video footage from last week's ominous day in the cemetery of Uzvölgy, it is clear that Hungarian people have been victims of violence and this is unacceptable. We therefore expect the Romanian authorities, the Romanian State, to investigate these events, to punish the perpetrators and to prevent similar cases from occurring in the coming period. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the legal, factual and moral truth in this matter is also on our side. What's going on? The group leader made it clear that in this military cemetery the bodies of Hungarian soldiers rest in principle and in most cases, and that every document that is relevant from this point of view supports this fact, and everyone must acknowledge it. But the fact that we have the legal truth on our side is proof of the previous decisions and procedures of the Romanian authorities. On 9 May, following the submissions of the representatives of the RMDSZ, the Romanian State Department of Construction concluded that the mayor's office in Dormánfalva issued the building permit necessary for the establishment of the Romanian plot of the military cemetery on the basis of documentation which did not prove, therefore, that it had not clearly demonstrated its ownership over the territory, i.e. that the building permit was unlawfully issued by the Dormánfalva Town Hall. It's a Romanian authority's determination. [[13.10]] The next day, so on 10 May, the Romanian Ministry of Culture also stated that the construction was illegal. This applies to the concrete crosses that were clearly raised to places where the bodies of Hungarian soldiers were found, so they built concrete crosses on the tombs of Hungarian soldiers. After that, the Romanian Ministry of National Defence issued a resolution on May 31, according to which the conversion of foreign war memorial sites can only be carried out in Romania with the prior consent of the National Office of Heroes' Remembrance under the Romanian Ministry of National Defence. Such a preliminary contribution was not granted by this particular agency for these works. So, according to the procedures and decisions of the Romanian authorities, everything that happened there at the level of construction is illegal. From now on, ladies and gentlemen, I must also tell you that we have been constantly looking for the possibility of communication. On behalf of our Military Remembrance and Military Care Directorate, we visited the Romanian Ministry of National Defence several times, in each case we encountered rejection through communication channels. The prime ministers spoke about this issue in person, and I myself spoke to the Romanian Foreign Minister's colleague several times. I would like to tell you that yesterday we received information on the phone, after which I consulted with the leaders of the RMDSZ, and I must tell you that we, the Hungarian Government, agree with the RMDSZ. The RMDSZ wants a real dialogue and the restoration of the original state of legality, i.e. the graveyard. That's what we want, that's what we see as the only acceptable decision, the only acceptable development. We expect Romania to restore bilateral obligations and international treaties [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We expect the Romanian authorities to have the original state and the elimination of the abuse and desecration. Thank you for your concern. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause.]]
u2019-06-11-4	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Our colleague László Varju from the DK Group, entitled Budapest, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-5	Thank you very much. Dear House, Honourable Members, I must say that you believed that what you have done to Budapest for nine years would be forever unpunished. They thought that without consequences, they could take more money away from our capital every year. They thought there would be no consequence of having our 40-50-year-old subway cars refurbished instead of a new subway for a new price for the Russians. They thought that they would never have to bear political responsibility for the fact that due to a lack of money, Budapesters could not be sure that the garbage would be transported at all. That's how you made theaters impossible, so you let our hospitals crash, so you chased away the best university. They thought they could sell their capital real estate to themselves infinitely, and then they appeared one after another in the city as hotels of the Orbán family. For nine years, people who live here haven't done anything for the people of Budapest. If even working people can't afford to rent in Budapest, you say they did, then you can go to the countryside. If a student doesn't have money for a BKV pass, he should be on his own, so you say. If someone lost their home, they wouldn't cross a blade of grass, so you'd rather have the police take it. Do you really believe that with your own electoral law, you can always keep this city in check now? Do you really believe that as a public limited liability company, it will always be enough to be the largest minority, because the majority, the opposition, will not be able to meet the requirement imposed on us by your electoral system? All you've been saying is that we can't work together, that we can't cooperate with each other to defeat you. Members of the government, you were wrong. Based on the events of the last few days, the opposition will decide who will defeat István Tarlós in an exciting and real competition with the Budapest primary. Yes, Budapesters will decide to whom to entrust the independent Budapest that will be liberated from the rule of the Orbán government. They can no longer hide behind their own electoral law. The minority will no longer tell the majority what the city should be like. It's over. The way he's in football, and sometimes people say that the semifinal was the real final, there was no question who was going to win. The situation here is similar. With any luck, we can safely say that Budapesters will decide who will be the mayor of Budapest in the next five years. This will be the price of the last nine years, the planned government bled-out of Budapest. You were equally confident before the EP election, fantasizing about 15 Fidesz mandates and talking about the advance of the far right in Europe. Then there were 13 mandates, and the complete failure of the far right in Europe, and the begging and the screaming in the People's Party, so that they wouldn't fire the Fidesz. [[Nacsa Lárinc's intervention.]] In Budapest and in Újpesten, in my constituency, you have lost tens of thousands of votes to the votes of DK, Momentum and MSZP-Palogue in the EP elections. We'll do everything we can to make it even more so in the fall. You are counting again, and now you are going to lose Budapest. This year will be the year of your failure. The opposition is here on the field, and from the capital to the smallest village, it cooperates everywhere to put an end to this outrage that you are doing. I am very proud to be a part of this opposition. [[Defiance and interrogation from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Because we're not going to let them bleed out their capital city nine years ago and use it manually to make their own fortune. The people of Budapest will show that this city is theirs and not part of the Orbán lordship. They will show that Budapest deserves better than what you have done to it for a decade. They will make it clear to you that they want to live in a clean, livable, green European city. We're gonna show you that we don't need a stadium. We need a hospital and a school. That we don't need concrete and stone, we need greenery, parks and trees. In the autumn, the people of Budapest will show you that puppets are only loved in the puppet theatre [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Not if your puppet sits in city halls. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-11-6	Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, At the beginning of his speech, he brought up the subway case. I am glad of this because if you are curious about what Budapest can expect from Ferenc Gyurcsány's team, we recommend that you look at the metro 4 case. You talked a lot about it, you promised a lot, you promised a great deal, but you didn't do anything. The only thing they had to worry about was a lot of money being played out, so much so that the 4th metro scandal was probably the biggest corruption problem since the change of regime. [[Crying out of DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] We know that about a third of the value of the investment could have been stolen and cheated; so, honourable Member, if you would like to help Budapest, you will publish the detailed information about, among other things, who might have taken these funds. [[Noise, interrogations from both sides. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[13.20]] By the way, it was this government that, after many decades, ended the 4th metro investment. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] You talked about it, you profited from it, and the national government did the work and finished the investment. The same thing happened in many other areas, by the way. You have bled out health care in Budapest, and this government has decided on a 700 billion-dollar development. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What about baby emergency care?]] Honourable Congressman, We listen very closely to DK's speeches before the agenda every week, and if we did not know who they were, we could easily think that we are dealing with political virgins who have not yet been given an opportunity. But the thing is, you've already had your chance. They were given the opportunity to strengthen Hungary and Budapest, and they failed, and the consequences of this were felt by the people of Budapest as well as those living in the countryside. Because you cut the family support system in Budapest. Here, too, the home creation programme was abolished, which was a direct route to foreign exchange loans. In the capital, a month's wages were taken from civil servants and a month's pension from the elderly. On top of that, they wanted paid health care, and if that wasn't enough, thousands of hospital beds were removed and 6,000 medical workers were put on the street. You were even flirting with the idea of real estate tax, which would have put the people in the capital city in a very vulnerable financial situation. And if you put democracy on your lips, let us record now that you have surrounded the jewel of Budapest, Parliament, and here, on the streets of Budapest, among peaceful protestors. And to make the whole thing even more outrageous, they even decorated those responsible for it afterwards. Now, honourable Member, this is what your Budapest policy was about: austerity, failed developments, rubber bullets and spent money. It's a terrible, terrible package. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] Honourable Congressman, You referred to the primary. Let's see what happens. What's happening is that Ferenc Gyurcsány's men are eager to take the entire left. It has already been decided that in Brussels his wife will be the chief coordinator, the chief of staff. After that, your speech also proves that Budapest has been chosen. I would now like to have the work done by an ex-journalist with such independence that he reaches Ferenc Gyurcsány. This is a number of examples that show that the fibers on the left are driven all the time by the autumn eye-shooter, and that he decides who to deal to. By the way, what we're going to see in the weeks ahead, we've seen it a hundred times. The next season of the left-wing marauding soap opera, the battle of the hungry for power. We can expect the same from the old-new players this season, scheming, political scheming and spectacular scams. In the last few days, for example, Gregory Christmas has been tricked, not a little, but a lot. Only Gergely Christmas is surprised that Ferenc Gyurcsány doesn't keep his word. Well, Gergely Christmas or she didn't see the fall speech [[There's a lot of noise in the lines of DK and Dialogue.]] Or he saw it, but he didn't understand it at all. And in this marauding soap opera, the main characters will have many things, many goals, but the growth of the country and Budapest will not be among them. You are not interested in Budapest, now you are not interested in Hungary, but in positions. I am sure that Hungarian voters know this very well, because the season may be new, but the story is the same. For our part, we do not want to give the opportunity to those who have almost played the future of Hungary and Budapest once again, and if it is up to us, they will not be given an opportunity. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-8	Thank you very much. With all due respect, I would like to ask Mr Varju and Mr Szabó Timea, in particular you, Madam Group leader, to make sure that there is order. You, with your group leader, have also agreed to keep order in your faction and listen to the public address. [[Szabó Timea: My faction is perfectly fine, Mr. President.]] Dear Parliament, Mr István Hiller, vice-president of the National Assembly, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on the future of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-9	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear House, I want to talk about the future of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The spirit is free to serve. When, after the end of World War II, Dezső Keresztury, the legendary director of the Eötvös College, the excellent writer and poet, was asked what education, research, the task of science in a democracy, happens to be in our country, he said these three words: "The spirit serves freely." Last week, the government presented a bill defining the future of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in the management of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. Obviously, it does not have to be the issue of education and science for all of you, but you have seen that both in Hungary and in the international public, all kinds of standards and stimuli have been met. Dear colleagues, honourable Members, we are talking about far more than Hungarian science in itself. I ask you, and I call on you, the representatives of the majority, to see not simply a policy law on this issue, but, in fact, to decide by discussing it, together, in our best conviction, on the future of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. To sum up three points, this law is about the academy research network being disconnected, taken away from the academy. In the second part, it is about the elimination of the Academy's basic funding. In the third part, it is about the fact that the Academy's assets are actually deprived of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in a free handover. With this content, regardless of who's putting it up, regardless of what government it's being put forward, I'll never, ever agree. I think, honourable Members, that this is a bad road. I am trying to convince you in your speech before the agenda that this is not in the best interests of our country. Please understand that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences does not belong to the government. It's never belonged to a government since it was founded. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences is a very important pillar of our national identity in the sense of Széchenyi István. The idea of raising the quality of research, education and innovation, if they do not think it is a political claim, requires substance support. Therefore, the Ministry and the Academy established and operated a committee, a joint committee of scientists, before and during the negotiations, which assessed the quality of the academic research network. I quote you from this report. The research institute network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is one of the best in Europe. The performance of the network is excellent and has a number of creations that are at the forefront of the world and can be considered as a national treasure. There is no need for a radical transformation of the research network, but, like all large systems, this can be developed, for example by involving young researchers more intensively. So much for content, fellow Members. As to the form, I respectfully inform you that last week at the meeting of the Cultural Committee, where we discussed the academic report of 2015-16, that is to say, the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences was invited, the first man of the scientific community came, said his opinion, on behalf of the government, the Secretary of State also gave his opinion, and then the majority of the Commission said to the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences that we would not discuss his report, he showed the door and posted it. Honestly, I'm telling you. That I was ashamed of myself for all of you. The president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences was removed from the meeting where he held the report. Well, what kind of thing is that? What kind of thing is that? ! This is about freedom, freedom of research. Anyone who is against the law is in favour of freedom of research; I am in favour. Thank you very much. [[László Varju: That's right. Applause in the lines of MSZP, Dialogue, DK and LMP.]] [[13.30]]
u2019-06-11-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The quote you quoted from a report or from that particular report is not in contradiction, in my opinion and in our view, with the intention of amending the law. International knowledge centres, including the European Commission, have confirmed that the Hungarian scientific system is facing major challenges. If I want to translate the serious challenges into Hungarian, it can be translated that it is waiting for transformation, we need to reform it, we need to make some kind of innovation in order for scientific life, research to have a closer relationship with the economy, a serious relationship, a closer relationship with social expectations. Instead, we now have a fragmented, fragmented structure that cannot concentrate talent and resources, and that needs to be changed. In addition, research in the field of research is considered secondary by many actors, and this needs to be changed. This also leads to the fact that Hungarian researchers' excellence has little impact on the life and efficiency of Hungarian businesses. The transfers that should link knowledge and the economy in Hungary have evidence, whether numerically proof that they barely work. The role of the Academy must therefore be considered, and the role of academic research institutions, the network, should be considered and made more effective. In relation to the state of Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy, the present and future of Hungarian people, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has a very serious responsibility. On the one hand, its responsibility stems from the fact that its members are the largest Hungarian researchers, whose work and efficiency may depend on the country's competitiveness. On the other hand, it is responsible for the proper use and utilisation of the tens of billions of HUF public funds made available to promote the development of the country. Thirdly, he is also responsible for the credible representation of the values he represents because of the considerable public confidence in him. At the same time, the Academy does not deny the need for serious intervention in the field of Hungarian innovation; again, numbers can prove the reality of this sentence. This will require a comprehensive renewal of the entire scientific institution system and a higher level of funding for the renewed system. The values, which can be invented and valued in the Academy today, must be preserved and further developed, so the Academy, as an autonomous public body of Hungarian science, was a fundamental feature of Hungarian constitutionalism, and I would like to stress that it remains. The world-class basic research carried out by the Academy's finest workshops also deserves the country's financial sacrifice, so research and development and innovation as well as you are certainly aware of it the following year, if the budget is accepted by the Parliament, it will receive HUF 32 billion more. This means that the government is very serious about the network of research institutes of the Academy of Sciences, the very important work that is going on there. But what we want to achieve, what we want to achieve, and, of course, in the debate, these arguments and arguments will be said, and I hope we can convince you that there is a need for renewal, there is a need for a better use of public money. [[László Varju: The withdrawal is necessary, Mr Secretary of State.]] The government does not want less, but more research, which is why it strengthens the research network. [[Szabó Timea: It does not strengthen or strengthen the research network!]] And as I mentioned, you're spending more money on this, more money on your research. The aim is to ensure that the billions spent on Hungarian scientific research are not lost without tangible results, but are also used in patents and inventions that serve the Hungarian economy. And I would also like to emphasise that, of course, basic research is equally important to the government, so far. The existing system is inefficient and is evidenced by several reports. Hungary is lagging behind in an international comparison, so it is necessary to adapt best practice. This, of course, as can be seen from the draft law, does not mean nationalisation, as the research network has been in the hands of the state, and its operation has been financed by the central budget. You can't nationalize what's otherwise state-funded and publicly funded. We want to do the exact opposite: we want to strengthen this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-11-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the Group of the LMP, Mrs Márta Demeter: When will the interests of the Hungarian people be carried out instead of their own business? A title for the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-11-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, LMP has been warning the government for years that Paks II investment is a wasted, expensive, dangerous, bad deal, and has now failed. We have now come to the point that even the Hungarian Prime Minister has admitted that there is a serious delay in the project, and with the discharge of the Secretary of State, the search for those responsible for politics has already begun. So we are now at a point where there is a bad contract, a bad concept, a very serious national security risk with the support of this kind of effort to gain influence in Putin, while the profession and the public itself reject the Paks expansion in a large majority, the government is still slavish. Mihály Varga held negotiations in Moscow on 21 February 2019. He did not hurry to inform Parliament or the public about the negotiations, and very little news has been published in the press as well. I have asked several questions to the various actors of the government about this trip to Moscow. I'd like to quote some answers. One of the Tállai State Secretary's replies: the Government, taking into account the EU procedures that may be necessary, will prepare in due time and submit its proposal to the Parliament for discussion and approval, since, as an international treaty, Parliament is the decision-maker on this issue. There was this answer to my question about what they had modified on the Paks loan agreement. Minister Süli also confirmed in one of his TV shows that the Russian-Hungarian financial treaty needs to be amended due to a huge delay. Mihály Varga will handle this, but Parliament will have to vote on it. According to Mr Pál Kovács, the amendment to the financial framework contract is also on the table, according to him, Minister for Finance Mihály Varga has recently discussed this with his Russian colleague. The Ministry of Finance replied to my request for data in the public interest on the subject, in which I asked for the amendment of this Paks loan agreement, to be exact. I received an incredibly amazing reply, the answer was to inform you that the Ministry of Finance is not a controller in relation to its request for data in the public interest. So with regard to the amendment of the Paks loan agreement, you don't think the Ministry of Finance is a data controller. Mihály Varga, on one of the committees, said that the Paks loan agreement had not been amended. The question would therefore arise: should the Hungarian taxpayers soon begin to repay this extremely expensive, loss-making, terribly bad financial arrangement? It would be essential, my fellow Members, and I would also like to draw the attention of the representatives of the government to this fact that the public is being informed, because it is an incredible amount of taxpayers' money. The government, on the other hand, is hiding and laying low again. Also in 2014, the Orbán-Putin pact was concluded in secret, with Hungarian taxpayers in debt to some HUF 4000 billion, so that these projects were clearly loss-making. Private companies would no longer invest in such projects, but the government is not interested in the loss of Hungarian people. The fact that the Paks II investment could at all have been authorised by the European Commission, even though it shows that the committee's decision-making is not transparent at all. In addition, not only Rosatom but other large companies are beneficiaries of the Paks project, who, who, who knows what kind of deals, have concluded their own business, are financial or political beneficiaries of this project, and have been able to make them interested in turning a blind eye to the growth of Russian influence and a loss-making and extremely dangerous project. This cannot go on, the multi-enterprises must be limited, the Paks II Act must be terminated immediately. We have also tabled a proposal for a decision on this; instead, it is necessary to invest in renewables and housing modernisation, which would result in a 30% reduction in the costs compared to the current one. [[13.40]] In addition, one million HUF insulation and upgrading programmes should be launched for each household. As Hungary's security strategy rightly emphasises, we need to switch from fossil systems to renewables, we need to focus on increasing the efficiency of energy use and giving impetus to the use of domestic renewable energies, the interests of our children and the future of Hungary depend on this. Of course, it is necessary to transform the entire economic structure. In Hungary, large foreign companies, through wild liberal economic policy implemented by the government, not only siphon the low-cost labour force, but they installed the most energy-intensive production and work phases in Hungary, thus making the necessary energy changes impossible. So we must act immediately. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If you, my fellow members of the Government, are in the interest of the Hungarian people, you will make these amendments without delay. Thank you.
u2019-06-11-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Minister János Süli responds to the statement made before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-15	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you again for giving us the opportunity to talk about Paks. So, in recent times, both in the parliamentary elections and in the elections in the EU, you have received serious attacks and criticisms from the Paks investment and, on our part, serious support from the campaign. This was also the result of the vote, so I do not know what you are talking about, that there is a clear rejection of the Paks project, that the people do not support it. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] I can say this on behalf of Constituencies 3, where the votes clearly prove this fact. When we talk about slipping and changing financial and other contracts to do so, of course, the most important condition is that there are always good quality, reliable plans, and these plans can be submitted to the authority if they are available to us. The Hungarian requirements are more stringent than the Russian requirements, so the power plant needs to be redesigned at several points, and the time needed clearly increases planning and we forget to talk about the 22 months that caused 16 months of suspension in Brussels and the 6 months that resulted from the Brussels decision to announce 55% of project work under EU competition law. Thus, overall, this resulted in a delay of 22 months in the implementation of the project initially, and these were amended as technical requirements for the Brussels Commission, the financial conditions of which are not yet modified, but are in the process. As you have received answers to Minister Mihály Varga's questions, as we must go back to the Brussels Commission in all cases in both technical and financial terms, these consultations are taking place, and since the financial financing was carried out by Parliament's decision, in a separate parliamentary decision in 2014, so we must bring this amendment back, and this financial amendment cannot happen without your approval. The point of this amendment is that until now, the date of repayment has been dated, and now it will be linked to an event. So this means that it is not an imaginary date, a date of implementation, which is no longer true the 22 months delay is not yet followed, but when it is a condition suitable for production, so we hand over the block to a commercial operation, we have to start the repayment from then on. So it's clear that when the block is successfully installed, we'll be able to repay it from then on. So there is no question here that we will have to start paying this off in the days. In advance, the Hungarian party agreed with the Russian party, but, as I said, we must have all the questions approved in Brussels and then bring them to Parliament, so we will give you a reassuring answer. The Hungarian energy situation is still unchanged, we have been doing 50 percent imports in the last few days, and we needed 31,6 percent imports in the last year. Hungary, the Hungarian government, is committed to establishing renewables, including solar power plants. In the area of Paks there was a 20.6 megawatt, a 22-megawatt solar power plant, a 17-megawatt power plant on the site of the Mátra Power Plant, and it is being prepared continuously, with a permit for 3,000 megawatts of solar power. But these are weather-dependent production units, and we also need to think about the time when the sun is not shining or we have no other option, and we need to do it, and we can't do it without a power plant. Whoever is responsible for Hungary's energy supply, so that it can provide cheap electricity for industry and the population, and by the way, countless international organisations around the world have said that renewables alone cannot meet environmental challenges, without nuclear power plants the problem of CO2 emissions cannot be solved, so I think that the Hungarian government is on the right track to decide to set up a nuclear power plant. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-16	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, How long does power take advantage of each of us's patience? Mr Péter Jakab, on behalf of the Jobbik Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group, You have a good friend called Laszlo Domokos. You know, he is the President of the Party State Audit Office, an ex-Fidesz Member of Parliament, who recently tried to bring Jobbik to the brink of bankruptcy with a billion-dollar SAO penalty, and now it seems that he wants to bankrupt the Hungarian families. Comrade Domokos thought that in the future workers would not receive their full salary, but that employers would transfer part of the salary to a separate account, a savings account, saying that this step would help workers to save money when the crisis comes. In other words, Comrade Domokos thinks that Hungarian workers cannot manage themselves responsibly, they spend the money with both hands, but he and the government will come along and they will show you how to save money from hunger for difficult times. This happens after you have recently raised László Domokos's salary from 2.5 million a month to HUF 4 million a month. So if there is someone, it will surely be László Domokos who will be able to authentically play for us how to manage smartly! Shame, fellow Members. We obviously know that László Domokos is just a puppet, a puppet of the Orbán government, pouring out what the Orbán government has in mind, and of course we also know that one of you will stand up here and tell us that they do not want to implement László Domokos's plan. You guys say a lot of things, and they say they don't let economic immigrants in, and then they let 86,000 in in in three years. So we think that, after the municipal elections, you will take the Domokos plan, which Viktor Orbán said in the pen, and until then, you have thrown it all into the public mind to let the people eat it. However, the people should not be digesting your bullshit anymore, but you should face the Hungarian reality and face the fact that Hungarian workers do not save money because they are irresponsible in farming, but because there is nothing to save. Hungarian workers are happy if they can pay the loan and the bills. Of course, I know that in your world, fellow Members, the Rogán Cecilia and in the world of Orbán Rachel, deprivation is an unknown concept. I know very well that in the world of maintenance there is money for luxury without saving, but I also know that in the average Hungarian world there is no money for the most basic, and it is not the worker's fault, but your fault. Since 2010, you have been so obsessed with this country that today, in the European Union, only Bulgarians are poorer than we are, and if it is up to you, this situation will only get worse. How many times, but how many times have you made faith, fellow Members, in addition to the fact that the better the country is, the less the Hungarian worker has to pay! Do you remember how Viktor Orbán lured the Saudi investors here? It's because we have a remarkably low-cost workforce compared to its quality. Do you remember how László Fat rejected the Jobbik's Wage Union, the pay scramble? By making the Hungarians settle for less. Or, do you remember how Peter Szijjártó recently calmed the Western multinationals? By keeping the government in line with the increase in wages. This is how you save money for Saudi investors and Western multinationals, while every third of the Hungarians are living below the minimum living standards today, but save money because the crisis is coming. Of course the crisis is coming, we all know that. In the automotive industry on which you have built the entire country's economy, redundancies have already begun. That's right, it's the only thing you could have prepared for. [[13.50]] In recent years, you have supported the multinationals, and you know very well that if a crisis comes and the crisis comes, then the multi will be the first to move its production line, say, to Asia, and the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise will be the one who will think, even in the middle of the crisis, that if necessary, by changing profiles, but how to preserve its activities and jobs in Hungary. And yet you do not support Hungarian businesses and even tax them to death, just as you do the population, I add. Next year, they want to collect 300 billion forints more tax than this year. Now, that's your real economic policy: skinning people, eviscerating workers, the slave bill, the low wages and the inexpensive Eastern migrant worker who's been deployed! [[Interruption from the benches of the governing parties.]] Well, if a government like that wants to save the workers, if a government like that wants to save the workers [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Time!]] Which, by the way, not so long ago, took the employees' private pension fund savings, so let's start worrying, because this government doesn't want to save for the workers, it wants to save for itself. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] And, of course, it is important, it is very important for families to have financial savings, but it is not necessary to do this by letting László Domokos into the family register to pay public rent, but by paying the job to give people quality wages for quality work. I have another idea: give the workers back all the money that has been stolen from them in recent years by corruption. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: That's right!]] And we're all gonna have enough savings right away. And László Domokos, along with his ideas, should finally be removed from public life, because he is a danger to the public, as is the government that invents such things in the background. Don't even think about doing that. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's right! Dr. Peter Hoppál showing six percent! A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-06-11-18	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I am very sorry that the left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány gives Jobbik, who has lost his identity and who is drifting, a political role in the opposition cast. [[Moraj, interrogations from Jobbik's benches, among other things: Oh, my God!- Szabó Timea: Is this the answer to Jobbik?]] that these nonsense must be brought to the public of Parliament from week to week. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, I must say that, Congressman, you spoke for five minutes, we did not hear a single true sentence. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the same place: That's right! Szabó Timea intervenes.]] You know I like to cling to the cores of truth that are involved in opposition speeches, because that's how we can start a dialogue. There wasn't one such sentence in your speech. Allow me to read you some facts. [[Zsolt Gréczy, György Szilágyi: Did he or did he not say? Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't explain, answer! Noise.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, I must say that, Congressman, you spoke for five minutes, we did not hear a single true sentence. (Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the same place: That's right! Szabó Timea intervenes. ) He knows that I like to cling to the cores of truth that are involved in opposition speeches, because that is how we can start a dialogue. There wasn't one such sentence in your speech. Allow me to read you some facts. (Zsolt Gréczy, György Szilágyi: Did he or did he not say? Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't explain, answer! Noise) In Hungary, 5.3 percent (The President bell rings.) Hungary's economy has expanded in the last quarter, which is the best result among EU Member States. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: We talked about wages...]] In March 2019 construction production exceeded 67 percent a year earlier. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Not the production report...]] The number of newly built apartments in use increased by 8 percent. [[Dr. László György Lukács: 100%! And the Dumpster's salary! Yeah!]] In April, industrial production increased by 6.3 percent on an annual basis. Retail sales increased by 6.8 percent. In the first quarter, investments in the national economy increased by 26 percent on an annual basis. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: They fulfilled the five-year plan well! György Szi-lágyi: Domokos' salary increased by 100 percent!]] Average earnings increased by 11 percent compared to the same period of the previous year, while real earnings increased by 7.6 percent, and this is no longer the first such year, but, thank God, we have seen similar positive data for several years now. The number of people employed is now 4.5 million, since 2010 there have been 800,000 more people working, unemployment has fallen from 12 percent to 3.5 percent. And what you have said about next year's budget, in addition to the fact that it is not true statements, is even an outrage, because they show that you, despite being a Member of Parliament, and that would be your job, have not even read the bill on the budget submitted last week. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] You can't even refer to the fact that the data wasn't available, because those data are there, and they're at your disposal. [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: Little work, right? Dr. László György Lukács: What are those data? Tell me.]] Since 2010 we have doubled the benefits to support families [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] We are now spending HUF 2200 billion on this purpose. [[Szabó Timea: What are you lying about?]] And what you said about the tax increase, that's... [[Noise, interruptions, including Dr. Ágnes Vadai: More stadiums! That's what's best for the whole country.]] It's just untenable. If you look at the Hungarian budget, the budget submitted [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We checked!]] in which, I hope, the Government side can count on the support of Jobbik, there is a tax reduction of HUF 500 billion. 500 billion forints! [[Szabó Timea: 70 billion in Orbán...]] So either it's mathematical.... I'm sorry, it's just that the head of the faction is yelling, it's a little hard to answer. So either mathematically...
u2019-06-11-20	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Freckles! Calm down and try to spread this. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[Szabó Timea: I am completely calm! It's just all these lies are hard to deal with. Noise.]]
u2019-06-11-21	So either there's a problem with mathematical abilities, or there's a problem with understanding the text, or there's a problem with the intention of looking at things in a realistic way. [[György Szilágyi: Did the Domber tell you or didn't he tell you?]] Then it really is only possible that Ferenc Gyurcsány assigned this role to Jobbik, which is not a grateful role, so we would very much like it not to be taken from week to week. As regards its comments on the State Audit Office, the State Audit Office is an independent constitutional body. [[Grumbles and interrogations from Jobbik's benches: Dr. László György Lukács: We've heard this before!]] which is responsible for drawing up public policy proposals [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Yes!]] It's the same as the other constitutional bodies. The government has no such intention. [[A voice from Jobbik's benches: Ah!]] what you mentioned in the speech. There's only one problem that's been causing Jobbik problems for years now. The problem that is causing Jobbik problems is that laws must be respected and those who fail to comply with the law must therefore face sanctions. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Stealing is the problem! Peter James: Look at you! Dr. László György Lukács: Flórian Farkas... György Szilágyi: Tell Flóri! Tell me.]] This is what it looks like in a democratic rule of law, and this task... [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Márton Gyöngyösi: After the judgment of the Court of Strasbourg, we will look back to you...]] It's as simple as that. [[György Szilágyi: Did the Domber tell you or didn't he tell you?]] This task must be carried out by the State Court of Auditors [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Oh, my God!]] according to the Hungarian Constitution and the legislative environment. [[Moraj from the benches of opposition parties.]] So it's not acceptable that when someone gets caught, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The fact that he didn't comply with the laws, as in the case of Jobbik, then he starts tying up the head of the constitutional body in Parliament. We consider this unacceptable, reject it, and call on Jobbik to comply with the law. It's as simple as that. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-11-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány, from the Group on Dialogue, spoke before the agenda with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-23	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, It's hard to figure out who the government's current enemy is. Well, I'll try to help them. [[Laszlo Varju: Oops! There's a lot of information from the benches of the opposition parties.]] Watch out for the KSH! It looks like György Soros or Ferenc Gyurcsány has set foot in the KSH. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] You're bombing us with announcements that we're rushing our heads. The KSH communication the other day clearly stated that inflation has not been as high in seven years as it has been in these days. These are the slick facts, Mr. Secretary. And unfortunately, the problem is that whoever is the real leader of the HCSO, our market experience supports the official communication of the HCSO. If we go to the market, we can confirm for ourselves that the price of potatoes, fresh vegetables, fruit and these crops has increased by more than 15 percent in one year. Unfortunately, the flour, bread, and pastries could not miss this podium, and these products were also brutally, significantly more expensive than official inflation figures. But if anyone wants to eat more meat and eat pork, they should be shocked to say that they have increased by about 9 percent once again, according to the official data of the HCSO, the price of pigmeat is 12 months. And if you want to light a cigarette when you look at these numbers and market prices, then you get another unpleasant surprise, as tobacco prices have risen by about 13 percent in one year. If we look now at what the budget envisages a pension increase and what inflation projections it has for next year, Mr State Secretary, let's look at the figures: they calculate with 2.8 percent inflation, which means they want to give pensioners a pension increase of around 2.8 percent. With such price increases, it is simply a shame! And it's just a blur on the cake that, while the government is proud of the results of the economy, which we also welcome in the last few minutes in Parliament, while trying to save the consequences, as the National Pensioning Parliament just the other day called attention to the fact that, due to the difference between actual economic growth and government-calculated economic growth, pensioners were shortened by some HUF 10,000 in terms of the pension premium. [[14.00]] Once they are proud and feel free to be proud of the economy's soaring, at least in terms of official data, and now let us not spoil the celebration of how divided society is, how divided the economy itself is with large entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, Fidesz-near entrepreneurs and everyone else, then we can recognise that the figures of economic growth are indeed on average exemplary, but then carry out the consequences of this, and at least pay this 10 thousand forints pension premium ex post. The plan to exclude people with disabilities and pensioners from the Erzsébet programme as of 2020, starting next year, has also come to light the other day. It is simply social sensitivity and the category of social need that you have in mind that you should stay out of this programme; in a country where the rate of pension increase is far below the rate of market price increase, in a country where the minimum wage in Europe has to pay the highest tax, in a country where most people have little salary to keep a rent in a larger city in Hungary today. Ladies and Gentlemen, If the Secretary of State has just missed the truth, missed the exact numbers, then please delve into the data of the HCSO. These figures, however the President of the HCSO is called, unfortunately show that you have plenty to do in the area of pension increases and other social arrangements. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-11-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to begin by saying that you were a member of the socialist governments, the principle of which was that there was no wage increase that I would not invade with inflation. So, in your time of government, [[Szabó Timea: Start over! We don't understand!]] It was typical that inflation growth was always higher than income growth, thus people's well-being was not guaranteed. At the same time, the Fidesz government is pursuing exactly the opposite policy. Let's look at pensions. It is possible to talk about inflation, that inflation is relatively higher, but inflation must be compared to people's income [[Bence of Turda: Or their pension!]] and that inflation is half-percent higher than in the previous year, while their income increased by 10 per cent. [[Bence of Turdai: Mr. Tallai! Ouch!]] then it is provided to all social groups, including employees. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] at work, the pensioner is also insured [[Bence of Turdai: What's secure? Well?]] its standard of living. [[That's what it is.]] I believe that you have not been able to ensure this during your administration. Now they're going after the government that says [[Szabó Timea: The one who's been steering for nine years!]] that consumption has been increasing for more than 50 months, increasing retail revenue. This also shows that people's income is also increasing, and thus [[Bence of Turdai: Bravo!]] their income is significantly higher than inflation. But look at the pensions. Between 2010 and 2019 pensions increased by more than 33 percent on average and their purchasing power improved by more than 10 percent due to persistently low inflation. Now, you can't tell me that about your time of government. The pension increase in 2018 was 3 per cent, the pension increase in January 2019 was 2.7 per cent and 2.8 per cent in 2020. In the event that pensioner inflation is lower, the government provides a pension premium for pensioners. This was not necessary between 2011 and 2016 because the pension increase was always above inflation. This was necessary in November 2017. Retirement promotion was given to pensioners, so the government made a 0.8 percent ex-post increase. As a result, pensioners received an average of HUF 24 thousand as a pension premium, supplementary pension increase and pension compensation. In 2018, inflation was 2.8 per cent, while pensioner inflation was 2.7 per cent, so there was no need for pension compensation, since the increase of 3 per cent was higher than the rate of deterioration. The same is the case for those with income, as real income has been increasing significantly for years now, which means that not only the rate of inflation is nominally higher than the rate of income growth, but also in reality, in Hungarian, workers can buy more goods from their income. This has several components: on the one hand, a significant improvement and growth in the economy, which already provides more and more income for workers and, on the other hand, the government's tax policy, as the single-key 15% tax also provides real income growth, and, on the other hand, the annual increase in the level of family tax relief for family members, and a significant increase in the level of family tax, also gives workers a higher income. Overall, your criticism of highlighting some inflation figures, some products whose prices have increased as a result of market developments does not show a realistic and realistic picture, the government's policy is correct in this respect and will continue to follow this in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-11-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lajos Kósa, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda, with the title of current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-27	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament will soon begin to negotiate one of the most important laws of the country each year, the negotiation of the Finance Act. Before we begin to negotiate the budget law, we should remember the most important goals and objectives and tasks that we would like to underpin and help with the budgetary law. One of the most important issues is the safety of Hungarian people, the safety of Hungarian families. The safety of Hungarian families, as well as the safety of the country, as well as the safety of living, the security of development, is worth examining. The government pays particular attention and the Fidesz faction pays particular attention to the safety of families and the safety of people. The family protection action plan, announced by the Prime Minister, we have heard a lot of things about good, good, but where the numbers are, where is the guarantee that we can ensure that the family protection action plan is provided with a large amount of funding. If someone looks at the budget submitted, they will be satisfied that each family protection action plan announced there has adequate coverage in the budget. For those elements where planned expenditure otherwise shows considerable uncertainty, as we do not know how many people will, for example, turn to a preferential loan that otherwise supports young families, the budget applies a top-up fund and the budget reserves provide adequate coverage to ensure that these commitments are met. So we can say that the protection of families is guaranteed in the next year's budget. We can guarantee each point, of course, if Parliament adopts the budget law, because if it does not accept it, that guarantee cannot work. [[14.10]] But I very much hope that at the end of the debate you will at least support the elements which, by the way, serve the safety and prosperity of Hungarian families. The protection of the Hungarian economy is very important. The economy is not a goal, it is just a means of supporting the protection of Hungarian people, the security of Hungarian people and creating adequate financial resources. The fact that the Hungarian external government debt is finally below 70 percent is particularly highlighted in the next year's budget. We remember that in 2002 left-wing governments took over the Hungarian external debt by 50 percent. This was gymnasted over 80 percent in eight years, so the Hungarian external government debt was more than doubled nominally. Now the objective of next year's budget is to achieve 67 percent, if we are to meet the criteria of the Stability Act, it is to achieve 65 percent, but this year we are going below 70 percent, which is a huge weapon, if we take into account the obligations of the country, not least because of the governance of left-wing governments. But it is not only about reducing external government debt, but with the economic protection action plan we create the conditions that the growth of the Hungarian economy continues to be stable beyond the pace of growth of the European economy by at least 2 percent. And not least, this budget, if someone looks at the figures, guarantees that we can also guarantee the country's physical protection, because it is not only billions of people provided for the military development programme, and that we can meet the objectives set out in the Zriny military development plan, including NATO expectations, but it is also clear from day to day that we are providing the resources needed to protect the country from the invasion that threatens our southern borders and to focus on this. All in all, the Hungarian budget will answer the most important questions for the country, so I would like to ask Parliament to support the adoption of the budget after a responsible and well-founded debate, so that we can ensure the protection of the Hungarian economy, Hungarian families and the country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as security is concerned, there has been a European election for a long period of two weeks, and since then, the majority of elected representatives have taken their place in each faction. The mandate given to the ruling parties is binding: we want European leaders who are on national foundations, who count on security, Christian values and roots, and who are fighting immigration. The opposition representatives also took their seats: they all joined an immigration support group. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] DK has joined the Timmermans, for example, who believes that societies will be diverse everywhere, and like it or not, and that everyone here in Eastern Central Europe must accept this. The re-painted liberal party joined Guy Verhofstadt, who would open Europe's doors even wider. The most important task now is to withdraw the programmes to support and encourage immigration, such as the migrant card, as soon as possible. Typically, it was only after the election that the latest compilations were published, according to which nearly 70,000 such credit cards were distributed with money in one month. As you know, this is what the Hassan F.....who has more than 20 lives on his hands. It also shows that this is an irresponsible, opaque and difficult to control, which does not solve any problems, but opens up a lot of new ones and should therefore be withdrawn. Dear House, Last week, the government presented a draft budget for next year. It is a budget that places great emphasis on security. On the one hand, this means physical safety and, on the other, it means standing on its own feet in the economic sense. We need to protect our results by slowing down the European economy, increasing public debt in many places, and also having serious consequences for trade disputes. This is why we have been holding the deficit target for many years, which is why reserves are increasing, and that is why we are spending more than ever on defence-related expenditure, which, by the way, is doubling compared to 2010. It is also important that, despite all the ominous expectations, the Hungarian economy is doing well, now there is a 5 percent increase, and next year we expect an increase of more than 4 percent. The resulting additional resources can be used primarily to support Hungarian families. This is why the family support system continues to expand, already in the summer the baby shower support will start, which could amount to up to 10 million grants, the home creation programme will be extended, there will be village CSOK and there will also be grandparents. If the budget is accepted by the House, it will mean that we will be able to spend more than twice as much on family support compared to 2010 - more than HUF 2000 billion. The government therefore not only talks about the child being the first, but also adjusts its policy and action to this. Next year's budget, in summary, will provide more money for each priority area, while maintaining the stability of the Hungarian economy and strengthening security. These are features that will enable all Members to give their warm support here in the House. Dear House, I'd like to respond to one more thing... [[Noise on the opposition side.]] I would like to respond to one more thing, even in front of opposition representatives. At these moments, the rescue work of the Danube ship's disaster is also taking place. The ship was recently picked up. First of all, we would like to express our condolences to the families of the deceased, share their pain of a tragedy that is hard to comprehend. And I would also like to take this opportunity to thank those law enforcement workers, those divers, those TEK experts and all the professionals who have been involved in the rescue work of the accident in the last few days. They have worked in extremely difficult circumstances, their standing is exemplary and deserves all respect. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-06-11-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Now it's 14:17. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2019-06-11-31	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: László Hajdu, DK; Balázs Ander, Jobbik. On Wednesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Imre László, DK; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; János Harghitai, KDNP; Csaba Hende, Fidesz. On Wednesday, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda. No one came forward on Thursday's day after the agenda.
u2019-06-11-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I am now asking my fellow Members to take their seats, to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machines, because the agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, First, we decide to initiate negotiations in exceptional proceedings. The Government has initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/6441 on the reduction of the rate of social contribution tax and the amendment of other related laws. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure; the consolidated debate will take place on tomorrow's sitting as item 1; and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. [[14.20]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, namely 100 Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you accept T/6441? Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the trial of the proposal in exceptional proceedings 121 yes, 19 with no votes and 21 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted for 17 hours and 21 minutes. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The MSZP Group has initiated the Parliament to amend certain laws necessary for the restructuring of the institutional system and funding of the research, development and innovation system. Do not begin to negotiate bill No 12 on the day of the 12 June meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] That didn't get the visible majority. Dear Parliament, The DK Group proposed that the Parliament amend certain laws necessary for the restructuring of the institutional system and funding of the research, development and innovation system. The first item on the agenda of the 12 June meeting was discussed. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that this did not win the visible majority, so the visible majority rejected it. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that on Wednesday, 12 June 2019 the T/6193 on the announcement of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the field of military aviation and air defence activities. T/6212 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of Members' immunity pending the closure of the general debate on bill No. The agenda should be followed by a general debate on the legislative proposal No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group also proposed that T/6352, on the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and on the amendment of certain laws relating to national financial services. T/6359 amending certain laws necessary for the restructuring of the institutional system and funding of the research, development and innovation system on Wednesday, June 12, 2019. Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 as the last item on the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group suggested that on Thursday, 13 June, T/6355 on the amendment of certain laws relating to media services. T/6353 on the amendment of certain public service laws until the closure of the general debate. Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 as the last item on the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that, on Thursday, 13 June 2019, item 1 is item T/6344 on the publication of an investment protection agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part. General discussion of bill No.2 until closure, item 2, item T/6346 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Cape Verde on the publication of the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments. General debate on bill No 3 until closure, item 3 - T/5886 on the publication of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty. The general debate on bill No 4 until closure, item 4 is the T/6348 on the announcement of the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America. Bill No 3 and H/6354 on the authorisation of the stationing of armed forces in Hungary of the United States of America. The joint general debate on the proposal for a decision should be pending its conclusion. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that decisions be taken at the earliest 12:00 a.m. on Wednesday, 12 June 2019. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Economic Committee to be consulted by the Parliamentary Report on the activities of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in connection with electronic communications 2018, B/4492. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated Economic Committee to take a decision 118 yes, 55 votes not, without abstention. I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Cultural Committee to be consulted by the Parliamentary Report on the activities of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2018, B/5080. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated Cultural Committee to take its decision by 120 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Committee on Agriculture to ask B/6347 B/6347 on the position of the agricultural economy in 2017. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated Agriculture Committee to take a decision by 120 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the President of the National Court of Justice to decide on a motion for a decision on his mandate. On 8 May 2019, the National Judicial Council adopted a decision proposing that Dr. Tünde Hando, President of the National Court of Justice, be removed from office. [[Gergely Harvester: Yes!]] Congressman, discipline yourself. [[14.30]] The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 74. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the Judicial Committee examined the motion initiating the looting and took a position not to deprive Dr. Tünde Hando, President of the National Court Office, of his office as chairman. Presentation of the Judicial Committee S/6247. can be found on the House's website. Dear House, Law on the organisation and administration of courts 70. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) (f) and (2) of the National Court of Justice, the National Assembly shall decide on the removal from office of the President of the National Court of Justice. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the proposal of the Judicial Committee cannot be tabled, and Parliament will decide on this without debate. Now it's time for the decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament are required to remove the office of President of the National Court of Justice. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position not to deprive Dr. Hando Fae, President of the National Court of Justice, of his office as chairman. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to deprive Dr. Hando Fae of the office of President of the National Court of Justice. Please vote. [[Vote. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, you'll get it now that it's fidesz! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Ferenc Gyurcsány said yes!]] I declare the resolution: Dr. Tünde Hando, President of the National Court Office, was not deprived of his office of office without abstention by 54 votes in favour, 120 against. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:32 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions, and questions. Dear Parliament, Member György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:, No matter who the minister is, none of them wants the publicity and purity of public procurement. It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When János Lázár was the minister, and he was responsible for the resources we received from the European Union, he was responsible for the applications that had to be directed to him after the National Development Agency, there was still a problem in the area of applications. Then, when Gergely Gulyás took this position, he immediately said in a loud voice that he would clean up here. He immediately terminated certain contracts concerning who would control these contracts and who would conduct these public procurements, and he immediately promised that more than 80 people would be recruited to clean up this area. Then we had to face the fact that it doesn't matter who the minister is, who the public procurement procedures are, that the dispatching of EU funds is not appropriate. It's not right, because you guys keep playing these numbers for friends, buddies, and you keep creating situations in public procurement procedures that no one else has a chance of winning, just friends and friends. They will never support efforts to ensure that these procurement procedures are fully open, transparent and transparent. They will never support it, it does not matter who the minister is, that these procurement procedures will receive the same publicity as they already receive in the countries around us, because if I mention only Romania or Slovakia to you, then these procurement procedures are open there and you can get to know each of their elements. The question is that you want open public procurement procedures in Hungary at last, both above EU funds and in public procurement financed from the public budget, which are transparent public procurement. Do you wish to create this transparency at last? And do you wish to live in a normal country where the goal is not to advance your own friends, but to prosper and advance a country, Hungary and the Hungarian people? That is why I ask you to support the more transparent procurement procedures. Do you support the fact that we are finally going to put this area in order in Hungary? And if you support it, because I think that would be your answer, then why do you not support Hungary's accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the European Public Prosecutor's Office's ability to examine the EU funds that it gives Hungary to develop and not to your friends? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-11-34	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr Orbán's interpellation question will be given by Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to fix a few things. In the context of the rules on public procurement, we have always had a threefold set of objectives: on the one hand, the maximum reduction of administrative burdens, the promotion of the involvement of Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises through simplification, as well as the opportunities offered by the EU directives, sometimes it is not on our side, but on the opposite side, and one of the important principles of the existing procurement law, as you have said, is to ensure that competition is made public and that it is respected, which we consider as a basis. Let me remind you that, in order to strengthen public procurement, steps were taken already in 2011, when the Fundamental Law was adopted, since the Fundamental Law first laid down the principle that only an entity with a transparent ownership can receive State aid. This principle was not previously included in the Hungarian legal system, and certainly not at the constitutional level. Subsequently, the notices were made public to the widest public in the EU electronic paper, TED and the electronic Public Procurement Notification. Then, six months ahead of the expiry of the deadline for the EU directive, we introduced the so-called EKR, which allows electronic communication and registration for public procurement, i.e. the Electronic Procurement System, which also strengthens transparency. It operates on the public electronic contract of the Public Procurement Authority, CoRe, in which contracts concluded on the basis of public procurement are available, possible contract modifications and key data. These are all steps to increase transparency and transparency in public procurement, sometimes by laying down more stringent rules in line with EU standards, sometimes beyond them. Thanks to this, the current 2018 report by the Public Procurement Authority shows that the number of public procurements awarded by SMEs increased to 7702; in 2008 it was only 2700; the value of the procurement awarded by these companies increased to almost 2000 billion compared to 1500 billion, that was in the previous year, and in 2008 we talked about only 500 billion. 58 percent of total public procurement is achieved by small and medium-sized enterprises, which is a ten-year record. The trend towards a reduction in single tender procurement continues: it fell from 24 per cent to 12.8 per cent for EU procedures. If we compare it with the countries in the region, we will find much lower numbers here. The proportion of procedures without notice is also significantly reduced: from 9.7 per cent to 4.8 per cent, from 2.1 per cent in national procedures to 1 per cent. I think that, on the basis of the above, it is clear that a harmonised system of instruments, which we have implemented continuously after 2010, in order to ensure compliance with EU standards, but also by laying down stricter rules, ensures that Hungarian economic operators not only have access to the information relevant to them, they have a chance of starting on these proposals, but also that substantial social control can be ensured and exercised in the field of public procurement. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2019-06-11-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-06-11-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is quite difficult to accept an answer that contained almost nothing that would have come up on the issue. For example, you have not mentioned a word about why, if you are always so clear about the intention, you do not want to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which could examine EU funds. Then he says that they created this public procurement law, which has been rewritten several times. This Public Procurement Act is a mockery of the rule of law. Then you say that you have introduced that companies with opaque ownership structure, offshore companies, are not allowed to enter public procurement. They forgot to write it down for you. Do you know what the National Development Agency has fallen for? That, after this law was passed, and that law came into force from 1 January, we looked at in June how many offshore companies received support from the National Development Agency: they received support from companies with an opaque ownership structure worth HUF 35 billion, so they did not comply with the law. Why are you afraid of the European Public Prosecutor's Office? That's because their intentions aren't pure. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-11-38	Congressman! Do you accept the answer? [[György Szi-Lágyi: I said I wouldn't accept it at the beginning... Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I think it's possible to jump to conclusions! György Balla intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Szabó, a Member of the National Assembly, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What do you intend to do to ensure that no one is left without health care? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, My recent interpellation also dealt with the health situation, as I am convinced that this is the biggest problem for people in Hungary today, and not only my conviction, but all the surveys show this. I will continue, since not only to my questions, but also to the questions of my fellow opposition Members, Mr Secretary of State has given appropriate answers on a similar subject. Health is a human right, we need to do much more to ensure that the most vulnerable have better access to health services. . said Dr. Piroska Östlin, Director of the WHO Regional Office for Europe. It is difficult to argue with this statement if we look at the fact that there are 363 permanently unfilled GP practices in Hungary, and there are 242 permanently unfilled dental practices, the vast majority of which were empty not under previous governments, but under current governments. This includes a reduction in the number of medical districts every year, since medical practices have to be closed because there are no specialists. It is also a major problem that the number of practices that may be newly created is significantly less than the number of closed practices is very difficult to achieve by public transport, so accessibility is also a disadvantage for people. In Hungary, poorer families and older people are groups that are particularly at risk from either not receiving the services they need or are facing financial difficulties because of the services they pay from the pocket. The WHO will continue to confess, continuing the above lines. Indeed, if we look at the state of basic care, it can be concluded that the situation of primary care has not improved in recent years, since the elimination of general medical practices is not slowing down, and more and more people are being left without care. We are talking about nearly half a million Hungarians who do not have adequate basic health care. Looking above, I would like to ask Minister what you intend to do to ensure that no one is left without basic health care. It envisages the full implementation of the system of practice communities and group practices in such a way as to replace the current system in order to provide health care to all. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you.
u2019-06-11-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As opposed to other countries, everyone in Hungary receives the treatment they need both in primary care, specialised care and inpatient care. This would not, of course, have been the case if you, the socialists, had remained in power, who, let us not forget, had introduced a visitation fee and a daily allowance precisely to keep patients away from doctors with a visit fee. Hospitals have been closed down, 16,000 beds have been closed down, and now that you're telling me that more doctors are needed, you forget to mention that when you were on the government, you've released 6,000 medical workers under your government. Honourable Congressman, Do you know how many doctors were in the official lists in Hungary in 2010 in the year of the change of government? Thirty-four thousand. And do you know how many doctors there are operating licenses in Hungary today against your 34,000? 39 thousand, Your Honour. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true! Interview from DK's ranks: How many people are working?]] But, yes, you can check, check all records, honourable Member. You have laid off 6,000 health workers, and in our time the number of doctors licensed to operate has increased by 5,000, and then you are trying to teach us a lesson, honourable Member. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP:...he asked!]] But you quoted international surveys, so let me give you some international examples. In Slovenia, according to the news, there really is 2 percent of the population [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] The one who's left unscathed. In Germany, the president of the official German Federal Medical Association believes that 10,000 doctors are missing from the care system, and one third of doctors are retired and many German doctors are going to Switzerland to cure, 17 percent of Swiss doctors come from Germany. The other day, the prognosis of the American Medical University Association came to light that by 2032 in America, in a long ten years' time, 122 thousand doctors will be missing from the supply system, and 84 million Americans still do not have a sufficient number of medical backgrounds. On the other hand, honourable Member, in Hungary we have tried to strengthen basic care and general health care. In 2010, you spent 79 billion forints on general medical care, we spent 139 billion forints; 79 versus 139 billion forints. The average income of a Hungarian general medical practice in the last year of your administration was HUF 867 thousand, today it is HUF 1 million 630,000, honourable Member, we can talk about a 70-80 percent increase in the financing of general doctors. In addition, we have endeavoured not only to increase the income of GPs in general, not only to increase the amount of money spent on this, but also in areas where it is particularly important for new GPs to enter practices that have been replaced for years, which is why we have launched our practice competition and our application for establishment. As a non-refundable grant up to HUF 20 million can be obtained in the establishment proposal, of which HUF 4.4 billion has been allocated over the past years, and we have been able to load 247 practices, while we have been able to load 220 practices and spend HUF 1.1 billion on this. This means that, thanks to these support projects, we have managed to provide dental care to 250 thousand inhabitants and to provide general medical care to 637 thousand inhabitants. If these programs hadn't been available, these people might also have been replaced by a replacement. Luckily, it doesn't happen today. As I mentioned to you, there is no unoccupied area in Hungary. With three generations of applications for health, which you mentioned, we spent 5.8 billion forints here for prevention and production of practice communities, 81 applications won a whole new form of support a few months ago for 50-80 million forints, in order to better organise the basic care, and the Hungarian village programme contains 11 billion forints of additional health resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Yes!]] My fellow Members, let's leave this to the Interpeller, shall we? ? [[14.50]]
u2019-06-11-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, first of all, I didn't teach you a lesson. Allow me, as an opposition representative, to ask you about the health situation. You've been on the steering wheel for nine years, you shouldn't always be pointing backwards. Do something about it, and we won't have questions of that kind. Hungary has deteriorated significantly in terms of the quality of health care compared to 2007, and today only Bulgaria and Romania are behind us on the average of the European Union. I think we should think about that. By the way, Mr Secretary of State, Congressman, I offer you with respect that I will go to the Ministry in my own car, in a non-governmental car, come with me, whether we go for a ride in my own county or in the county of Békés, take a look at the quality of hospital care, take a look at the level of specialist care, look at the level of general medical care, and then we will experience together, we will see that what you have been able to tell me now stands in its place. Don't argue with me. The Hungarian people's biggest problem is the health situation, and you must see and experience it. I can't accept your answer.
u2019-06-11-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: "They come in bulk and take the job away, but what does the government do? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Oláh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You should know that Hungarian jobs are in serious danger in the long term. According to some research, by 2030 up to 1 million Hungarian jobs could be lost, and their arrival is unstoppable and will not be stopped by any fence. No, it's not about immigrants, refugees, migrants, I'm talking about a real problem: robotisation. In addition to climate change, all normal European countries today focus on preparing and preparing society for robotisation, as robots will result in countless jobs being lost. Goods sellers, receptionists, sellers, cashiers, accountants, telemarketers, and we could list them for a long time, lose their jobs overnight. There are many examples in Hungary and the neighbouring countries, not only for manual workers, but also for office workers. In countries that are managed by responsible governments, they do two things: instead of assembly plants, they encourage businesses that are engaged in innovative development and support science and research. On the other hand, you are destroying the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the only institution that could answer what should be done, so that the country can prepare for this. What are you gonna do when the robotization comes and the robots really take the job? Are they gonna put up some posters? There's gonna be a national consultation on how outrageous it is, isn't there? That's pretty much what I think of you, and the real problems can't be solved, and that would require work and steering. Robotization shouldn't be a negative thing, if the government is prepared, we can use it to our advantage. It should be spent on research that shows the impact of robotisation on society, re-training programmes that prepare workers in a vulnerable profession, so that if they lose their jobs, they can quickly move elsewhere. Hungary is one of the five worst performing countries in the EU in terms of lifelong learning, and there is also a very high level of computer analfabethism. Well, the two are crucial. Children should be taught the basics of programming already in primary school, as there will be no more secure jobs than the management, development and management of robots. That's what a responsible government would do, but unfortunately we know you're not. So I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State what you're going to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-06-11-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is interesting to hear from the mouth of a Member who is a member of the party who, for eight years, without being robotised from 2002 to 2010, was able to raise the number of unemployed about double or significantly reduce the number of people employed. I am asking you, Mr Congressman, and you, ladies and gentlemen of Congress, on the opposition side, not to scare the Hungarian people. Because we, for example, and in many countries of Western Europe, see an opportunity to robotise, we see an opportunity for better jobs for workers and more income in these jobs. In addition to such a technological change that will transform the labour market, new jobs will be created. A number of research shows this. These jobs require a highly skilled workforce, higher added value, productivity growth and innovation, and they also pay significantly more wages based on experience, thus having a positive impact on the country's economy and improving the quality of life of Hungarian families. The transformation of the labour market involves replacing routine intellectual and manual practical tasks. The human workforce is valued and more diverse roles are highlighted, and in this there are great opportunities that we want to exploit as much as possible. A number of research and surveys show that there are far more jobs to be created than there might be. You have not completed the second part of the research, which shows the creation of new jobs in addition to the cessation. But to give some examples, according to Deloitte's survey, for example, in Britain over the last 15 years, 800 000 jobs have been lost due to automation, but 3.5 million jobs have been better paid. According to Pricewaterhouse, the expansion of artificial intelligence alone will increase Britain's labour market by 200,000 over the next 20 years, eliminating 7 million jobs and creating 7.2 million new jobs. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] I recommend to Agnes Vadai that he turn to the seventh grade primary school history book, the time of the industrial revolution, how the fears there were realized when the machine was destroyed. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Education!]] Yes, with education, that is why we should read, for example, the history book that refers to these dangers in a similar, parallel manner. Returning to robots: the appearance of robots also appreciates the role of workplaces where the human factor cannot be replaced. Similarly, skills related to human cooperation, complex problem solving, critical thinking and creativity will become more important. Appropriate adaptation, modern expectations require a workforce with flexible skills and abilities. From the labour market point of view, the ITM is working to establish a training system that serves the real needs of change. If they were to participate in the day-to-day work, they would see that this process is still taking place, precisely to transfer the knowledge required by the labour market and to acquire it by people. In the future, therefore, we will not measure and regulate the training process, but rather the output, so that the training participant has actually mastered the necessary knowledge, and by acquiring this knowledge, we are seriously counting, for example, on employers in the field of adult education, the various companies that want to take part in this training. So if it is important to you what the situation of Hungarian workers will be like in 2030, then I ask you to support the government's proposals and intentions for vocational training, adult education. Thank you for your attention and for accepting my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-06-11-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've asked the Ministry before what kind of transformation they're planning in the field of education so that robotics doesn't take away 1 million jobs. They still couldn't answer, they still can't answer. You're talking about Britain, Secretary of State. Yeah, they examined it there and made the necessary modifications. They specifically looked at how all subjects in primary schools should be modified in order to prepare for robotisation. They did this in Canada. And what is interesting is that the results in the two countries were not the same. This work cannot be avoided in Hungary, but you talk, but you refuse to do anything. He's referring to vocational training. Of course, they've dumbed down vocational training. Kids who do that won't be able to compete with robotics. A hundred thousand students left school without a diploma or profession. That's how you prepare. This is unacceptable, Mr. Secretary of State. [[15.00]] I'd like to ask you to finally take this thing seriously. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Shame! The president's ringing the bell.]] Contact the Academy of Sciences [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Haha! Lock him up now. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Are they closing now?!]] See if there's a way out of this. I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, LMP and MSZP.]]
u2019-06-11-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. Therefore, I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 112 yes, 36 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why does the government stand by and watch the destruction of the rural road network? It's an address. Mr. Group Leader has the floor, please.
u2019-06-11-51	Thank you so much for the opportunity... [[Sándor Farkas: Can't hear!]] Does it work? [[Péter Cseresnyés: It already works.]] Good. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that my question, my speech, will cause less tension here in the parliamentary benches. I am going to ask you about a very current problem affecting rural areas, and I hope we will not be able to discuss statistics, because we have quite the same statistics in this area. When we hear government communication about various developments and road improvements, it is almost exclusively about the development of the motorway network, and we hear little about what they intend to do about the problems of the lower road network, the side roads supplying the countryside. We know that the Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt. Every year he prepares a very clear and detailed statistics on the state of the Hungarian road network, and we see that 40 percent of the main roads on the basis of cladding quality, but 60 percent of the side roads are highly ill-qualified, such as the proportion of these road sections. And if you look at the two worst ratings, that is, the proportion of the wrong and the wrong side of the road in terms of the side roads, you get a quite shocking 71 percent number, so 71 percent of the side road network in Hungary is of poor or inadequate quality, and because the government fails to take the right action, the substantive action, this number is, to an astonishing extent, getting worse every year, so every year the proportion of the side roads with bad and inadequate ratings is increasing. The question arises that the government is talking about rural development in various proposals, increasing the capacity to sustain the rural population, but how does the government imagine that, if one of the most important infrastructure in the countryside is in such a bad state, the road network, in particular, what rural development is the government's idea of, and how, if the quality of the side road is becoming more and more deteriorating every year? [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] And then I would also like to hear a concrete answer from the Secretary of State that the lower roads are, therefore, not in the context of the development of motorways, but of the lower roads in the medium term, so let us say, by 2022, exactly how much resources the government allocates for development and, if we take into account statistics, how much improvement they intend to achieve in terms of the proportion of bad roads and inadequate roads. So I would like to hear specific, exact numbers from the Secretary of State in his reply. Thank you.
u2019-06-11-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-11-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Before I give you figures, I would like to refer to concrete answers to a specific question, which is why it might have been more worthwhile to ask this question nine years ago, and then it could have been asked why the anti-rural economic policy or transport policy which was the property of the then socioliberal government would have led to it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] that the rural road network, the side road network, has not been substantially touched for years [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] and had to take action very quickly after 2010 [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true either!]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] that the rural road network, the side road network, has not been substantially touched for years (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No!) (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is not true!) That, as the budgetary resources are available, we will almost immediately bring about visible improvements and improvements to the side road network with the interventions there. Of course, it took a year or two to get that economy in a state of bankruptcy out of the deep pit, which, by the way, was transferred to where it had been put by the aforementioned social government. The Orbán government, working to lift up the countryside, therefore opens Hungary and its catching up regions with road investments (Dr. Ágnes Vadai intervenes.) Before potential investors, jobs-creating businesses, development to boost the local economy and improve the lives of families. This work is also part of the construction of a network of motorways that connect cities with county rights up to national borders, because there will be a large number of jobs for rural people, but, of course, the development of back roads and access roads is also very, very important. With this objective, the government has cut its ax into a huge chunk because of the maintenance and investment that had been cancelled for decades. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true either!]] We need nearly 20,000 kilometers of road, as you said. Anyone can see that this volume of work can be done from one moment to the next, but it cannot be done from one year to the next. Responsible and realistic thinking can be the launch of a long-term, scheduled, stable-funded renovation programme. On the basis of his speech, it seems that he has seen in recent years that steps have been taken in this direction, but he has not been fully informed, so I would like to draw his attention to the fact that the government has allocated the resources for the development and renovation of the road network to the scale of the task. The total budget of the road programme, which includes planned road development projects until 2024 will be HUF 3200 billion, and thanks to the growth of the Hungarian economy, more than half of this budget will be financed from domestic funds. In order to include concrete measures, the Hungarian-funded complex road renovation programme will be renewed in 2018 and 2019 by 614 km of side roads, and the EU-funded operational programme for land and urban development will have 521 km of side roads in the same period or are in the process of repairing them. Within the framework of the Hungarian village program, which focuses specifically on small settlements, HUF 50 billion is available in 2019 for the implementation of road renovations. This year, the renovation work begins on 163 locations over a distance of nearly 430 km. The government has also created the necessary funds for the maintenance of roads, and the Cabinet will provide the road operator with a total budget of HUF 400 billion between 2016 and 2020. As a result, the amount of commitment to be included in the annual budget for this purpose will gradually increase from the initial level of HUF 60 billion to more than one and a half times, so it is ensured, as mentioned in the planned and scheduled extension and connection road renovation. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-54	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-55	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for trying to give me an answer, Mr Secretary of State. In his reply, we also read numbers. I would not particularly like to talk about what happened before 2010, you are obviously right to make criticisms about the activities of the governments of the previous period, but I was talking about the fact that since 2010 the condition of the side road network has deteriorated continuously and continues to deteriorate every year during your governance. You mentioned once a 600-kilometer side road development and a 430-kilometer access road and connecting road development in the framework of the Hungarian village. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that at present the proportion, number, or length of roads with poor qualifications in the Hungarian side road network is 13,725 kilometers, the number of which is not qualified is 2,440 kilometers, so there are more than 16,000 kilometers of side roads waiting to be renovated and you do virtually nothing about it if you look at these numbers. That is why every year the quality of the Hungarian side network is constantly deteriorating, and that is why professionals are already putting it at about 50 percent. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the proportion of back roads to be rebuilt, which is a huge challenge. (The President rang.) Of course, I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply. Thank you.
u2019-06-11-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 116 yes, 36 votes not, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How long will overpriced construction investments allow NER construction companies to increase their extra profits and support corruption? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2019-06-11-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have to quote Viktor Orbán. Two years ago, he said: "I am surprised that you claim that there is a European Union project where someone from my family would have started as an entrepreneur, a major contractor or a subcontractors. Well, there is such a project, not only started, but also won it: Direkt36 sued that one of the Orbán companies is a sub-contractor in the southern Balaton railway development. [[15.10]] The 79 percent project financed by European Union funds accounts for HUF 300 million to this Orbán company, Kemény Kő Kft. But directly or through Lőrinc Mészáros, as a sub-contractor or supplier, companies of the Orbán family are rich in public money, Hungarian and EU public money. In 2017 Orbán papa's main company, Dolomit Kft. With $2.8 billion in revenue, he made a billion profit, but all of his companies made him a two billion profit. The Prime Minister's father and his siblings' ordering stock has gone up in the last few years, and their profit margin has risen to over 30 percent. But let's keep going. Last year, Lőrinc Mészáros's company Opus made a profit of $54 billion. This means that he is working with a 46 percent profit margin; then Zuckerberg would actually lick his finger. Last year, NER's nine largest construction companies invested 59 billion in profits. And when we ask Viktor Orbán how this is possible, the answer is usually that the Prime Minister does not address business issues. But he deals in his place with his father, his brothers, his wife, his daughter, his son-in-law, his friends, his neighbors, his stunts and his oligarchs, and the business here means that public money is shoveled into the Orbán family and the Fidesz. So the NER companies pushed by Orbán and Fidesz almost exclusively live on state orders and EU projects, and when we hear that such a public or EU-funded investment has already increased again, the cash register is ringing. But the source of this abounding profit is not innovation, not efficiency, but only absconding with the Orbán government, and the taxpayer's unlimited wallet. They overcharge, steal and cheat. Mr. Secretary, do you not think that if your favorite oligarchs work with nearly 50 percent profit margins, they should break down prices and reduce theft and fraud? How long will the joint cash register be considered the house fund of the Orbán family and Fidesz? How long should taxpayers continue to pay for overpriced investment, which means that there will be no money for education, health, pensions, social assistance or social leave for pensioners and people with disabilities who are being excluded from the Elizabeth Programme? I look forward to your reply.
u2019-06-11-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-11-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It seems that if we were to ask the question of how long people will tolerate slipping and spreading lies, then, for example, in the elections to the European Parliament, we have received the answer: you have received so many votes, you have been given a vote in a proportion that proves that people are tired of this constant accusation, this burned-up lie or the slides. But the cheap cliché that I wouldn't want to make too much of is that everyone starts from themselves, or a lot of people start from themselves, but maybe that's true for you, because, in the context of the topic being raised, I suggest that you sweep your own house for the first time, because I understand that you were the ones where the State Audit Office found serious irregularities during the control of the campaign funds of the 2018 parliamentary election. [[Bence of Turda: I wasn't even checked!]] and it was your ally, under which the Hungarian people faced unprecedented corruption. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] There's a former Secretary of State in your faction who'll let you know about this period. But perhaps it is also true that it seems that covering up the parking scandal of your party president in Zugló may lead you, you and your faction to accusations, while many believe that the city administration in Zugló still causes a million forints of monthly damage to the citizens of Zugló. But it may also be because of Zugló's series of scandals that the construction sector that you have criticized in recent years has had very significant success, becoming a driving sector in one of the most successful sectors of the Hungarian economy. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] The gross added value of the construction sector increased between 2010 and 18 from 3.4 per cent to 4.8 per cent. [[Interviews from Dialogue and DK. The president's ringing the bell.]] , and its production value increased from 7.5 per cent to 9,9 per cent of GDP. As a whole, construction production increased by 22,3 percent in 2018, which has been the best performance for 15 years. This shows the significant expansion and significant performance gains of the Hungarian economy, including the Hungarian construction industry. The dynamic growth seems to continue, as quarterly figures for 2019 show that construction production will increase significantly at least if not to a greater extent. This means that the Hungarian economy is expanding, Hungary is being built, and everyone who keeps their eyes open can see this. Of course, this significant demand for building capacities has a price rise, as you may know that what you are looking for and what you lack is normally a little higher, so it can be said that perhaps the impact of this significant increase in demand is that there has been a certain price increase over the past period. As regards the reference to public procurement: I have to say that the Hungarian Government has done everything in its power and will continue to do everything in its power to ensure that the announcements are transparent and that the available resources are used effectively. As a result, in recent years, the number of single tender procurement procedures has declined steadily, in addition to other indicators. While in 2009, during the governance of your ally, at the time of the left-wing governments, the number of single-offer procedures was double the EU average, in the case of public procurement reaching the EU threshold last year, this figure decreased to around 24 percent, to about the EU average. This is therefore virtually equivalent to the EU average. So everything you suspect here, slipping, or trying to spread as a lie, does not stand the test of reality, so I ask you to accept my answer with great respect. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-60	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-61	Mr. Secretary of State could only afford lying personalities, and he was trying to encourage us to produce construction even more. That's not comforting. Butcher has two companies, which I would like to mention now: R-Kord has 100 billion, Butcher and Butcher 220 billion in order now, so if half of this is stolen, then we are not happy to see the construction performance increase; in fact, only its volume, in fact, only the amount of money stolen, is increasing. You may be pleased with this, but the Hungarian taxpayers and European taxpayers who need to finance it are not very happy. So after the Secretary of State has practically promised to continue stealing with the same momentum, to a greater extent, I cannot accept his answer.
u2019-06-11-62	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 32 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, How will the Hungarian families be assisted by next year's budget? It's an address. It is for Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. [[Several pro-government representatives are leaving the Chamber. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Don't run away...!]]
u2019-06-11-63	Madam President, Honourable Secretary of State, Mrs. Thank you very much for the floor. The finance minister presented the draft budget this spring for the fifth year now, thereby strengthening predictability and predictability in Hungary. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The draft shows that there will be a budget for support for families, focusing on the implementation of the family protection action. Our goal in the Fidesz-KDNP fraction is to make Hungary a family-friendly place. For us, the child comes first. We want to devote the resources created by the excellent economic performance of Hungarians to children and families with children, not to immigrants with foreign cultures. It is a fact that the government was guided by this family-friendly approach when drawing up the 2020 budget. It was already true that Hungary has the highest rate of family support compared to the total national product, but we considered it necessary to take further steps. For this reason, more than HUF 2200 billion will be available next year to support Hungarian families. This is nearly HUF 224 billion higher than this year's amount. Dear Secretary of State, After studying the draft budget law, it can be said that this budget provides financial support for baby shower support, the expansion of the CSOK preferential loan, the take-over of mortgage loans for families with children, the car shopping programme for large families, and nursery constructions. [[15.20]] From 1 January, the four - child mother's personal income tax exemption, as well as the grandparents' child, can enter into force. The resources are still available for the ged extra, for the women 40, and for the children's free meals. In addition, we will spend more money on textbooks than this year, since the 2020/21 academic year will complete the free textbook supply. We will continue with the tax reduction policy. The aim remains to reduce the tax burden on labour and on businesses and families. For this reason, next year there will be more than ever, HUF 380 billion for the family tax relief and the first married person's benefit. A total of 296 billion forints will also be available to support home creation, as well as 150 billion for the Hungarian village programme. Dear Secretary of State, I ask what impact next year's budget will have on Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Novák is responding to the interpellation. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2019-06-11-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear fellow Members, When we say that next year's budget is a family budget, we do not do this wrong. We are almost used to giving more and more to Hungarian families every year since 2010. After all, what appears in the budget as expenditure is income for families; this means that the scope of the family is growing, it is becoming easier to start a family in Hungary, to have children and to raise children. I do not like to use the word, the term budget expenditure, because it is not an expense, it is an investment, an investment with which we invest in the future, in our most valuable treasure, in Hungarian children. Next year's budget includes more than HUF 2200 billion in specific measures to support families, namely HUF 2228 billion. This only represents an increase of more than 10, 11 percent compared to this year, so a very significant increase compared to this year's very high amount, but if we go back to 2010, until the beginning of our governance, we can say that next year's budget is 2.5 times the 2010 budget in terms of support for families. Next year's budget, the family budget, will also provide funds for the seven points of the family protection action plan, the expansion of the CSOK loan, the release of mortgage loans for families with children and families with new children, the support of large families for car purchases, nursery constructions, nursery development, and the total personal income tax exemption for grandparents and mothers with four children. I would just like to highlight one or two of these elements, which the congresswoman has not yet mentioned. When it comes to nursery development, you should not only think about expanding cradle seats, honourable fellow Members, but also that cradle funding is improving. We expect more from the municipalities, because their task is to increase, more municipalities have to provide crèches, but funding is also increasing, and we are also increasing the weight of non-state or non-government actors, there will be an increasing number of family crèches in Hungary, and the funding of the family nursery will be doubled from the next year, as we will be able to spend more money on the development of human resources. Overall, next year the budget will be HUF 52 billion for the provision of small children under the age of three; in comparison, this amount was HUF 11 billion in 2010. So in ten years, we have been able to increase the amount of money spent on children in kindergarten to nearly five times the amount. When we talk about home creation, we see a HUF 300 billion item in next year's budget, so we are confident that we will be able to provide more help than ever to create a home for families with children and young people with children. Next year, there will be a personal income tax exemption for mothers with four children, which will mean a budget loss of HUF 22 billion or a budget line, but it is more important to recognise those who have taken up at least four children and have worked and are working alongside them now, or are about to retire, but are raising adult children; these mothers do not have to pay personal income tax from next year. The provision of free textbooks will be complete in both the 12th grade and we will be able to devote more resources than ever to young children's meals. Overall, we can say about next year's budget that it will indeed be a budget for Hungarian families. I also ask the honourable fellow Members, regardless of the faction or party, to support the budget for next year, because, as I said, these expenditures are not expenditure, but investments in the future, the Hungarian children. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-66	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll take the answer.
u2019-06-11-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The answer is accepted. Hungary is the most family-friendly country in Europe, in the European Union, and we have the family-friendly government. Since 2010, we have spent more than double on family support and support for families with children. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I look at it, I don't know what the opposition doesn't like about this, and I wonder if, obviously, what we're going to use to support home creation now is nearly 300 billion forints, maybe they'd rather use it for immigrants. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I'm sure there are places where they'd be very popular, but this government is another government, family-friendly, we support raising children and having children. Madam Secretary, I accept the answer, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I'm relaxed.]] Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-69	Mr President, Dear House, Since we are talking about the situation of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, I would like to say hello to the Secretary of State, and I am pleased that an authority so deeply involved in this issue can answer me, because I am going to point out specific questions to you. Fortunately, I do not need to ask you a specific question about today's eviction, where, in the case of a family with a minor child, the elderly grandfather is now in a wheelchair, these days, and it is very difficult for them to achieve that the enforcement procedure is not terminated, but that they will be removed from their home only in September, and not now. At the same time, the day after tomorrow, we have to appear in the capital once again at an evacuation event, where there has been a shameful situation that where the injured can mobilize media contacts, knowledge, many cameras appear, civil rights defenders appear, and in the illegal processes they find certain neural points on which the processes can be slowed down or stopped, the family can be saved, in very few cases. But on a systemic basis, you have allowed more than ten thousand evictions to take place in the last three years. And there is no debate between us about the fact that there will be a family support package in the budget before us, which is fortunately favourable to those in the lucky position, typically from the upper middle class. Again, there's no argument here. Where the debate begins, the point where I have to state that the Hungarian society may never have been so divided. As has already been said today, every third Hungarian person must be under or around the minimum of living; the Hungarian workforce is under a continuous resource pump, in a state of looting, while thousands of Hungarian families must be terrified that the most important link, the home, is being lost above their heads. There's been a committee meeting in the last few weeks where we've put forward a proposal. This, Mr Secretary of State, would have ordered the moratorium on eviction and partial execution until, as promised, they could eliminate this problem, even with us. I mean, if you put a philanthropic package down here, we'd always support that. However, I have to tell you, at this committee meeting, it was said from your fellow Member's mouth that it is true that if someone thinks that he has managed irresponsiblely, he does not deserve protection, and here he is referring to those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. I am interested, Mr Secretary of State, in keeping with this opinion, that the Fidesz faction can deal with this opinion as a position, so that it calls foreign exchange credit victims irresponsible people, or even part of a broad group. As to my personal question, I would like to hear from you whether or not you will join us for the eviction event the day after tomorrow. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.30]]
u2019-06-11-70	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The payment and recovery of debts is a heavy burden for the debtor and the implementing law therefore provides more means to facilitate the debtor's situation. However, it should be borne in mind that enforcement procedures are imposed only in cases provided for by law: if the decision is final and enforceable, or if it can be carried out in advance. The debtor may request payment of instalments at almost all stages of the enforcement procedure, which results in the execution procedure being interrupted, so that the executing party does not take any further action until the debtor has complied with the payment agreement. In the enforcement procedure, the debtor or the debtor may, when implementing the enforcement procedure, exercise a normal remedy, so-called enforcement objection, in the event of failure to act, in the event of a material breach of the rules of the enforcement procedure and of the debtor's right or legitimate interest. You may lodge an enforcement objection even if you dispute the legal basis or the amount of the claim. The purpose of this appeal is to examine the enforcement procedure in terms of legality and legitimacy and, if it is irregular, to eliminate the infringement. The enforcement objection shall apply in relation to any enforcement activity governed by the implementing law. In the event of a remedy, the debtor may also request the suspension of the enforcement procedure. In the event of an effective remedy by the debtor, the court shall terminate the enforcement measure or even the enforcement already ordered. If the appeal brought in the course of the court's proceedings has not resulted in a result, the debtor may, under the rules of civil procedure, also sue for termination or restriction of enforcement. In addition, it should be pointed out that the debtor involved in the enforcement procedure has the possibility to seek legal advice from the legally competent territorial assistance service if he meets the conditions laid down in the Law on Legal Assistance. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In addition, it is certainly appropriate to seek out the relevant family and child welfare services, as they can provide assistance in terms of housing, care and meals. In addition, those concerned may also seek assistance from the local government's social department on the social benefits they may require, such as housing support and temporary aid, to facilitate burdens that are difficult to bear. It is important that the independent judicial enforcement proceedings, offices and operations of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court are also regularly monitored by the Hungarian Faculty of Justice, in order to conduct an investigation to verify the administration, function and conduct of independent judicial executives on the basis of the Government Decree on Rules, which may also lead to the initiation of disciplinary proceedings against the infringer. Disciplinary proceedings shall be negotiated at first and second instance within the system of the court, in which the most serious disciplinary penalty which may be imposed is the loss of office. In the context of the examination and verification of the activities of the executives, it should be pointed out that, in the event of serious or systematic infringement or suspected infringement of the guidelines of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives, the Minister, the President of the Court of Justice and the Registrar of the Faculty may order the extraordinary investigation of the executioner's activities. It is clear from the above that the Ministry is taking advantage of these opportunities, which are given. The kind of interference that the congressman raises would in effect hinder the functioning of the court. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And it's not the government's jurisdiction. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-72	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-73	Mr President, Dear House, If there was an answer, I could decide if I'd accept it. I'm sorry about that, but I don't just don't accept it, I take it as an insult. It is no coincidence that the president had to order his own fellow Members to pay attention to you, because he read a pile of useless paragraphs and quotes that had nothing to do with what I specifically asked you. [[Dr. Pál Völner: These are laws.]] Mr State Secretary, I have had two specific questions in favour of the findings. One was to take the opinion of his fellow Member as a faction point, that they had taken an irresponsible decision on the issue of foreign exchange credit. You didn't answer that, so please clear yourself of this. [[Dr. Pál Völner, showing a document: It's not in here. He's gone from interpellation.]] My second particular question was clearly that he would pay personal respect to the next illegal real estate evacuation event in order to bring the processes back to legality from the ground of illegality. The fact that you read your strategic partners here [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Excerpts protecting the Executive Chamber, perfectly unacceptable, shameful from a representative of a government. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-11-74	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Where is the road development programme? It's an address. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor.
u2019-06-11-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The standard of living of Hungarian society is closely linked to the state of the economy, and the development of the economy makes it possible to improve the quality of life. Continuing the maintenance and renewal of assets as far as possible is also an essential part of improving our well-being and the development of the economy. The road program is therefore a complex development in its simplicity, as the right road network attracts additional capital, the people who live there can travel more comfortably and safely, not to mention cost-effectiveness. The economic policy decisions of the Fidesz-KDNP government and the sacrifices of the Hungarian people today, we can safely state this in the light of economic data. The good performance of the Hungarian economy today allows Hungary to launch significant developments, including the development of the countryside, including the development of the road network. It's a multi-refundable investment. The continuous expansion of GDP, the decline in unemployment, the creation of new jobs, the rise of investments in almost all areas of life, this is the background that enables, but also requires, the continuous development of Hungary's infrastructure. Dear Secretary of State, The government's announced programme is based on transport policy in recent years. The government provides a rapidly expanding road network of services for people and businesses, i.e. the domestic economy. In this context, the existing road network can be significantly expanded, with domestic and EU resources available. With the implementation of the road programme, we connect county seats, larger cities, busier industrial parks and economic areas to the Hungarian motorway network. The highways, highways, we hope to reach the border. I think, ladies and gentlemen, these are long-standing plans that concern all of us and now seem to be feasible. Dear Secretary of State, Exactly what enlargement does the new programme allow, and what settlements are affected in the next period? How much money does the government spend on operation and the existing road network? What's going to happen this year? In short, Mr Secretary of State, where is the programme now? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-11-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Fidesz-KDNP government's main objective is the development of the Hungarian road network, the high quality operation and maintenance of existing network elements. The stable and persistent good performance of the Hungarian economy, the largest economic growth in the European Union, allows Hungary to implement a major road development programme. The road programme provides the Hungarian people and businesses with a fast-growing, constantly increasing service-quality road network for the Hungarian economy. This contributes to the further development of the economy and to the improvement of the quality of life of Hungarian families. [[15.40]] The government will spend some HUF 3200 billion on road development between 2016 and 2024 in the road programme. The larger proportion of the total amount of resources is HUF 1800 billion of domestic resources. Within the framework of the programme, the existing road network will be expanded to a new and improved phase of about 1,000 kilometres. The government's strategic goal is to connect county seats, larger cities, busier industrial parks, economic areas to the Hungarian motorway network, motorways and highways to the national border, and to reach a four-track road section within 30 minutes of any point in Hungary. In the coming years, Békéscsaba, Eger, Kaposvár, Salgótarján, Sopron, Szolnok and Zalaegerszeg will have a high level of road connection. The traffic situation of some 665 thousand inhabitants of large cities and their narrowest range of attractions is improving dramatically in the period ahead. This year we will hand over some 200 kilometers of new motorways and main roads, including the section of the motorway M44 between Tiszakürt-Kondoros, the section between Üllő M4 and Cegléd, the four-track expansion of the M70 in Zala County, with which a full-fledged motorway connection will be established between Budapest and Ljubljana, the Hungarian capital and the Slovenian Adriatic coast. Next year, another 225 kilometers of highways and highways will be completed. In addition to the continuous expansion of transport networks, the government considers the continued high-quality operation and maintenance of existing elements to be a priority. To this end, between 2016 and 2020 we provide the road operator with a total budget of HUF 400 billion for the quality of the operation of the road network and the conditions for non-accidental transport. The commitment planned for this purpose in the annual budget will gradually increase by more than one and a half times from the initial level of HUF 60 billion. From national sources we launched the complex road renovation program, the first two stages of which are renewed from 175 billion forints in all parts of the country, for a total of 1,500 kilometers. We have made it possible to support the modernisation of the lower national roads from EU funds in the regional and local development operational programme by HUF 54 billion. Only last year, the reconstruction of a total of 1,000 kilometres of roads took place in these two programmes. According to the government's decision, the Hungarian village programme will have 50 billion HUF available this year mainly for the modernisation of the rural connecting and connecting routes. In the first phase of the programme, 430 kilometres of roads are planned to be renewed. To sum up, it is therefore clear that the government is doing its best to continuously develop and operate the road network, building on the outstanding economic results achieved with Hungarian people. Please accept my reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-11-78	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer, all the more so, because we in Pest County, South Pest County, in the Cegléd area, where, as the Secretary of State mentioned earlier, we will soon hand over that 44 km section from the M4 to the Cegléd node, the construction of the M4 is not yet fully completed, but its impact is already felt in the region, as more and more companies are interested in industrial settlement areas that have not previously been typical. At the same time, we are also pleased that there is additional money available within the . Modern villages programme for the construction of access roads and short roads, but perhaps we should spend even more on the development and reconstruction of lower roads, as the rural people want to live and live. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We also need bicycle roads in the Great Plain. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-11-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 3:44 p.m. to discuss immediate questions. Dear Parliament, If, by chance, one of my fellow Members leaves the Chamber because of an urgent public task, please do so quietly. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The fight continues. It's an address. Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-06-11-81	Thank you very much, but I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2019-06-11-82	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The fight continues. It's an address. Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-06-11-83	Mr President, I'll wait for Prime Minister's plane to land and come to Parliament. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2019-06-11-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: å How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Minister Tamás Menczer has appointed Mr Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the signal of Márton Gyöngyösi:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, we were shocked to see the images of Romanian hooligans who were pissed off, of certain authorities, and of Hungarian soldiers' graves in the First and Second World Wars with the powerful support of persons with certain official connections. This behavior is the 21st. It's unacceptable in the first century. Especially the fact that this can happen under state aid. Not only the Hungarians, but all the good people have been abused by these hooligans, without nationality, everyone must face such actions. It is regrettable that the Romanian party has shown no intention to investigate the case and has not shown any intention of resolving the national conflicts raised. Even Péter Szijjártó's request was not met by the official representative of Romanian diplomacy here, as Ambassador did not get tired of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when this action should have been formally explained. We see that, before the agenda today, the House has already dealt with this issue before Péter Harrach's speech, but Minister Péter Szijjártó has made some kind of desire-driven ideas about the question put forward and the concerns expressed. We have not been promised any concrete action by Minister. That is why I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that we have already had the consultation and contact with Austria, Germany, whose military tombs are also located in the Uzvölgy. Have you ever had diplomatic contact on this issue? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Fidesz is internationally isolated, so it would be good to see concrete steps taken on this issue. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-11-86	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, answers the immediate question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, We've been said a few things, we've never been driven by desire, but now we're gonna punch this one in the face. Answer to your question [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Just a moment, Congressman, I would like to answer your question: yes. The diplomatic bodies have been notified, and this will continue. And as you said, Minister Szijjártó spoke about the subject at the beginning of the meeting today, but I would also like to repeat the most important points. The first thing I think is very important is that the source of the conflict, the cause of the conflict, the transformation of the cemetery, has been illegal. This was confirmed by the Romanian authorities, the State Building Inspectorate and two Romanian ministries, the Ministry of Culture and National Defence. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] What happened on Friday is absolutely right, it is unacceptable, Hungarians were injured, graves were violated, the cemetery gate was broken in, and the Romanian police, the Romanian police, did not interfere. [[15.50]] I am currently able to inform you that, in agreement with the DAHR, we want full scrutiny, accountability, and the opening of real dialogue, as well as the restoration of the original state of the cemetery. By starting a real dialogue, I mean that there should finally be a dialogue between the two governments' committees supervising the care of war tombs, and on the Hungarian side there has been openness for a very long time, and we have taken several steps to initiate this, but unfortunately, until now we have always been rejected from the Romanian side. I hope and hope that this can and will change, but you will understand that I cannot take responsibility for the position of the Romanian party. I would also like to thank the opposition parties who supported the Transylvanian Hungarians and the government on this issue for their decision. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2019-06-11-89	I am very sorry that we have not been able to hear about the concrete steps in your reply. I do not know what you think of the fact that total insensitiveness to Hungarian national sensitivity may indeed be related to the fact that Fidesz has managed to be completely isolated in the outside world and in the international arena in recent years. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is also clear from the American presidential visit!]] and this is the step of the Romanian ambassador, that he does not come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when asked by the Hungarian Minister, it may be in connection with the fact that Hungarian diplomacy and the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs like to lecture other countries almost weekly when they criticize your government. We expect you to build a diplomatic relationship system, an external relations system capable of effectively taking action against such cases. For Jobbik-Hungary Movement will present today a parliamentary resolution proposal asking all Members of Parliament to jointly [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We condemn this Romanian barbaric act, and we ask you to act effectively to defend Hungarian national interests. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-11-90	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State in return. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The part of his argument that it is our fault or the fault of Hungarian foreign policy is that the Romanian police and the police do not protect the Hungarians at the Uzvölgy cemetery, and I do not think that this is the fault of Hungarian foreign policy. And I can tell you the same thing about Hungarian foreign policy, about taking on or not taking on the conflict, and to this House, which we already have in mind, and we are acting with full regard for Hungarian interests, and we will act in this case as well. In particular, I would like to reiterate: yes, we have informed diplomatic bodies and we will give them information again tomorrow. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-92	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. In Hungary, more people die from hospital infection than in traffic accidents? It's an address. Mr. Minister has entrusted Mr. Bence Rétvári with his response to the urgent public task. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This is the provocative title of the study published in 2016 by the group "1001 doctor without gratuity." They claimed that more people in Hungary die from hospital infection than from road accidents. This shocked the Hungarian public, and since then the Ministry has not been able to rebut this statement, since 2011 there has been an increase in the number of infections of this type in Hungary. Experts say that 50-70 percent of these infections could be avoided if appropriate protocols were applied. WHO made a statement that about 20 litres of disinfectant should be used for a thousand people, compared with 6 litres in Hungary. So it is clear that in Hungarian health care they cannot do everything they can to avoid these infections. In addition, you are doing everything you can to hide these data, while every Hungarian patient would have the right to know where, what infections have occurred, and what rates the hospital is running. In this case, the SAO sued you, and then finally won this trial in 18, and then in June, the Curia maintained this previous court ruling. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State how many health care-related infections there were in Hungary in 2017 and 18. My second question is how many people died from health care related infections in Hungary in 2017 and 18 also. My third question would be when it will be publicly available, accessible and understandable to all, the database on healthcare-related infections, which contains a breakdown of the number of infections per hospital, so that patients can be clearly informed. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-06-11-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At the end of his speech, the Member asked when these figures would be available in a clear way. Honourable Congressman, Every time you go on the Internet, you enter antsz.hu, you go to the epidemic menu, you go to the annual reports, for the years requested by you, 2017 and 16 now, if you go on the Internet, you take out your phone, you take out your computer, you can follow these data, and exactly, on every question, honourable Member, you can get a much more thorough answer than in many other Western European countries. In Hungary, while these data are based on data from 82 thousand beds, only 44,000 beds are reported in France, or 43 thousand from Belgium and 1990 from Austria, for example, 82 thousand in Hungary. So in Hungary, these data are much more detailed, more thorough, more representative, and can serve the interests of Hungarian patients, as data provision is much wider than in countries with much larger populations than we do and even more Western countries. I reject that, Mr President, as you have done today, in your speech and in your earlier speech, because you have suggested that Hungarian health workers do not even pay attention to the proper hygiene of their hands and wash their hands with cleaning products, with other tools in hospitals. Honourable Member, in Semmelweis' country, Hungarian doctors and nurses know very well that this must be done, and the measures that we have taken in recent years, which have imposed new tasks at institutional level and at national level, are due to the fact that in recent years, such as Clostridium difficile, the incidence of diseases caused by CDI is much lower in Hungary than in Finland and Germany, according to the data of this international European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, and the prevalence in Hungary will return to this in relation to a much lower number of such cases in one minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy in return.
u2019-06-11-97	Then I don't understand what your ministry was saying, so why did the TSA have to sue you and what the Curia decided on June 5th? If that were true, Mr. State Secretary, then do it for me, and do it already, and then tell me, please, because you are bound to answer by the Act on Parliament. If it is so simple and everyone can navigate so easily, then everyone in Hungary must be crazy except you. What I see is that you look down on health care workers, you look down on doctors, but you look down on patients, because they provide medical services that are not appropriate, they finance them by not being able to provide adequate services, and it's precisely the work of health professionals that has caused this system to fail, and it's because of them. So I'd ask you why you won't answer me if you just have to punch in these data. I asked three simple questions, and for these three simple questions, give me six answers, six pieces of data, and then I believe that it can be found so easily on the Internet. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-99	Mr. Congressman, You have the opportunity to run through any of them, epidemics, sequences, numbers of sick people, nasocomial epidemics, if I look here on the first pages, from 2244 in 2016 to 1559 people, for example. [[16.00]] So you will find all this data here, honourable Member, and this is not a random reduction, but it is because we have tried to take preventive steps to increase patient safety. You know, unlike you, we have spent our European Union development resources on different corruption cases, not subway four, but on Hungarian hospitals, among other things. In this way, we have been able to increase patient safety in the institutions with hand disinfectant dispensers, both at patient care points and at visiting points of entry. Thanks to these, honourable Member, as I have said, while at EU level the incidence of infections associated with hospital treatment is 4.5 to 6.7 per cent, we have 3.3 to 4.8 per cent. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Therefore, much more favourable data. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-06-11-100	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "When will the people of the Fót Children's Centre finally know what their fate will be? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2019-06-11-101	I accept, yes.
u2019-06-11-102	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-103	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Earlier we were informed when we informed Foton, that if this can be seen as a promise, the people living there and working there were given the promise that they would not have to move out of the Fót children's home until May 31, and then they would be informed of where these children would go, who today live in separate houses furnished in an ancient park, where they would go and what would happen to them. May 31 is over, but they still have no information about where they're going, and they still don't know what's going to happen to them, what's going to happen to them, and they don't even know why they're going to have to go under much worse circumstances. Although we have tried to find out in different ways where these children, including disabled and sick children from the Fóti Children's Centre, the government refuses to give a concrete answer to the people involved, to the Members of Parliament or to the public about the fate of these children and their educators. You're keeping secrets, certain data classified for ten years, and you're still refusing to tell me what's gonna happen to the kids who live in Fot today. This is no longer simply cruelty, barbarity, such as the whole movement of Fót, but also a particularly serious degree of this, when they keep these children, who are already in need of support, in uncertainty. So I look forward to your answer: what will happen to these children and when? Answer me, please! [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-06-11-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The words and expressions you used for the parties of government should be used on your own and on opposition representatives, honourable Member. I'm not saying this indecently, but I'm telling you because, in fact, the fact that you have to move out until May 31st, you stood there and you said at the gate of the Fóti Children's Center that until May 31, the government will transport all children under far worse conditions. We didn't say that, Your Honour, you said that. Many of you have stood out from almost all opposition parties and have begun to scare the children there, primarily and the workers there. The 31st of May passed, and June came, and no one was moved out, because this, the need to move anyone out of there, you planted it in the public eye to try to create a scandal, a panic. It was time that you were denied, honourable Member, because no one had to move out. Just as they were discredited when they tried to believe in public opinion that they had to move out, obviously I don't know why they used this date, it's just as untrue as what they're saying right now. Honourable Congressman, No one in this case is classified. There is a standard administrative procedure, you know very well, you know this law, according to which every decision-making document that is created is subject to the judgment of a certain legal place, and like the tens of thousands of other documents which are also produced in Hungary and which prepares various administrative decisions, this shares the same fate. No one has made any individual decision, no one wants to hide anything, the same legislation applies to this document as any other document. And what is real, honourable Member, and anyone from the Hungarian Gazette can get to know it, namely, the Hungarian Gazette, Article 1037/2016, Article 1621/2016. and 1133/2018. From Government Regulations No 1 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] government decisions. Everything that's real can be known, and the rest, you're the only ones who made it up as an alarm. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-06-11-106	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2019-06-11-107	Dear Secretary of State, I must say that I find it sad that you did not answer only two questions: when and where should the residents of the Fóti Children's Center move out? You just didn't answer that, and that's not in your government decisions. The deadline of 31 May was not sucked from our fingers, honourable Members and Honourable Secretary of State, which you told the employees of the Fót Children's Centre that they would be able to stay there until then, but they do not know how much longer. They don't know how long this is going to take, because the government decisions show that you want to move them out of there. The government decisions show that you want to do something with this area, but now I'm not asking what you want to use it for. It won't surprise you; it'll probably end up with one of your buddies. But you have every right to expect a fair and direct answer about what you do to these children, what you intend to do to them. Stop playing with them! [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-06-11-108	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-109	Thank you very much for the floor. You and your fellow Members are using the children there and their fate to play small political games. [[Szabó Timea: Ouch!]] They do not pass through them and in those who work there to create uncertainty with false information, honourable Member. The government can clearly read out what the government is doing: it develops new seats in more modern places of supply. You're against that right now. You are attacking government decisions, criticizing those that create modern, new places for children to improve their development. [[Gergely Harvesting: Where? When?]] [[Gergely Harvesting: Where? When?]] [[Gergely Harvesting: Where? When?]] You think these are wrong decisions. You do not think that new spaces should be created and that children should not be placed under more modern conditions as far as possible. (Gergely Harvester: Where? When?) Honourable Congressman! I will continue to say that whatever deadline was said in this regard was the deadline set by the opposition in the press. For no one... (Gergely Harvester: Where? When? You have asked a question, honourable Member, about which no decision has ever been made, because these children will be there, and if there is a more modern place, there will be better placement where they can be placed, because the government will develop newer, more modern and more modern places from billions, then, of course, who will be better placed [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] can be placed at the disposal of [[Gergely Harvesto: Where? When?]] We'll provide them in a better place, and the others will, of course, be in their usual environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-06-11-110	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Péter Ungár, the representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2019-06-11-111	Thank you very much, I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2019-06-11-112	I would like to inform Congresswoman that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question: It's an address. The President of the Hungarian National Bank appointed Mr.István Nagy as Vice-President for his response because of an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask Mr President for the answer personally.
u2019-06-11-113	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to wait for President Matolcsy to answer personally why the banks that are dear to NER are failing.
u2019-06-11-114	Thank you. I would like to inform Congresswoman that Mr President has to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. [[16.10]] Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, representative of the Dialogue... [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Isn't the LMP coming? Lajos Korózs: The LMP is coming!]] I ask your understanding, it was not numbered, your speech was further... Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What does the government do about breaking up a retirement society? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[Erzsébet Schmuck nods.]] Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The retirement society is breaking up at a very fast pace. The minimum pension is still 28 500 forints, more than ten years, and it seems that the government has no intention of raising it, even though food prices are growing extremely. I suppose we can agree that with such a large amount of money, it's not fair, but there's no way to make a living. Today 47 thousand people in Hungary receive less than 50,000 HUF pension-like benefits, and nearly 600,000 people receive less than 100,000 HUF, while we know that the pension of several pensioners now exceeds 2 million HUF. A large proportion of pensioners not only break down within the retirement society, but also increase the distance from active workers. It adds that the government wants to save on pensioners: next year it expects 2.8 percent inflation, while the Hungarian National Bank predicted more than 3 percent. This means that the government wants to use the money for pensioners free of interest for months. The break-up of the retirement society must be stopped as soon as possible. It is unacceptable that the increase in pensions is still inflation-seeking and pensioners do not benefit from economic growth. It is also unacceptable that while low pensioners receive a pension increase of up to a few thousand forints, high pensioners can receive more than tens of thousands of forints. Secretary of State, I am asking what the government intends to do for a fairer ageing; how it intends to raise low pensions; what it does to combat increasing inequality and the break-up of pensioners' society. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2019-06-11-116	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Your words are most often contradicted by one of your great allies, Brussels. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Who?]] You said that the amount that pensioners get is too small compared to their earnings. Obviously, we're all working to make retirement pensions as high as possible. There are governments that manage to do this: Fidesz-KDNP, which managed to increase the value of pensions by 33 percent and the value of their purchases by nearly 10 percent, while your allies, with whom they are running for election, have taken away a month's pension from pensioners. Well, the result of these increases is that while on average in the EU a person receives 57 percent of his income as a pension, 46 percent of his income in Germany is paid as a pension, 64 percent in Hungary. So it's higher than the 57 percent EU average, 64 percent. If you look at the relative income poverty you say that what percentage of pensioners in the EU suffer from poverty: 14.2 percent of pensioners in the EU were affected by so-called relative income poverty, in Hungary 10. So the proportion of people exposed to poverty among pensioners is lower than in the EU, precisely because we are trying to provide additional benefits, whether in nature or in material terms, to help pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You were talking about minimum pensions, minimum pensions. Ten percent of pensioners are affected by this issue, and obviously, who has worked for several decades in an eight-hour job in a normal, notified job, and almost none of them. And the number of people who are involved in the minimum pension as a fixed pension, as I said, is tenth percent, but even the number of those has been reduced by half in a year. I think it's great that the number of people with high pensions has increased by one and a half times. And besides, the number of people who have the lowest-value pension and the number of those who have the lowest-value pension has been reduced by half. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So I think that retirement years are becoming more and more secure for everyone. [[The president's ringing again.]] as it was before the change of government, before 2010. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2019-06-11-119	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you're kidding. If only one pensioner got 28 500 forints, we would still speak out. What did your prime minister say? He said we wouldn't leave a single person on the side of the road. You have no idea about the prices. Do you know what it means to get 28 500 forints for 47,000 people? [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: No, you don't. 47,000? What are you talking about?]] You are an example of what percentage of the average wage in Hungary is pension, but that doesn't say anything. This does not mean that average wages are high in Hungary, which means that few, the average wages should be much higher. And it's a shame that you simply don't feel how difficult it is for pensioners. So you don't know what a retired consumer basket is. You don't know how much a month's rent, how much the drugs cost, you have no idea! You simply live in the ivory tower of the Ministry.
u2019-06-11-120	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State in return. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-121	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your proposals, submitted by you and your allies during the previous period, would only have made things worse for pensioners. The pension calculation method you proposed from the opposition side would have taken HUF 5000 a month out of the pocket of Hungarian pensioners. This 5,000 forints, you know, Congresswoman, may not matter to you, but you're a pensioner. You may prefer a mathematical formula, but it's a disadvantage for a pensioner. [[Moore in the opposition benches.]] How much did you attack when the pensioners received a 10,000-forint Erzsébet voucher? How many times have the ruling parties been reprimanded for this? [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's right! Jealous!]] When it was a pension premium, was it pension compensation, were you able to side with these proposals? The 12,000, 18,000 forints that pensioners received, could you support them here in Parliament? No, he was constantly criticized. As to your mathematical abilities or distortions: you made a 350-fold mathematical mistake in your previous speech when you talked about how many people receive a minimum pension in Hungary or how many do not. You said 350 times the number, Congresswoman, which is real. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You may be competing with Ferenc Gyurcsány and think that this is possible in that competition, but, Congresswoman (The President will announce the end of time by jogging the bell. ), it is difficult to participate in such a disenfranchised debate [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Statistical data!]] when you make a 350-fold mistake. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-122	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: What is going on? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Congresswoman, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally?
u2019-06-11-123	Mr. President, I was actually expecting Gergely Gulyás, I don't think Minister will be able to answer...
u2019-06-11-124	Congresswoman, you have one option: do you accept it or not? Please make a statement.
u2019-06-11-125	I'll take it. Let's take a look. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is not a wish show!]]
u2019-06-11-126	Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-11-127	Mr President, Dear Minister, A few weeks ago, the government removed the island of Shipyard from the UNESCO World Heritage Proposal without any justification. We know what this usually means if you do it without justification. According to the well-informed Hungarian Nation, this was to restore the Hadrian Palace. Then, a week later, it appeared again in the Hungarian Gazette that not even the restoration of Hadrian's Palace, but a kayak-kenu centre would be built, and immediately 630 million forints were earmarked for flood protection. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: So don't build a dam?]] Then I asked the Prime Minister about the written question that he should tell us what the government is up to, because we know that Marina Kft. is also the one who made it last year. received the right to use real estate [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Everything is in the Gazette!]] whose leaders are known to have good relations with Antal Rogán. So we know what's really going on behind the government's plans: they're trying to kill a green area again. Their knife broke into the Roman coast because we protected the Roman coast from you, and now it's the third. They want to take down another green area of the district and hand it over to your NER knight buddies for some gigantic real estate investment. I asked Viktor Orbán what the government was up to there. Balázs Orbán replied instead of Viktor Orbán, who, to my surprise, confirmed our fears, as I will read out what he said: "With the natural heritage of the island, with its good approaches, with its immediate location on the shore, he can be considered one of the major and untapped social and economic resources of the capital city. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The island is on the waterfront, that's his quality.]] [[16.20]] Well, that's exactly what we were afraid of, Minister, that you considered the island of Shipyard to be an economically untapped area, and that you were preparing for some huge, scandalous, billion-dollar NER investment. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Congresswoman is against dam construction!]] Minister, I don't know how much you're aware of this, but tell me, on behalf of the government, what you're up to on Shipyard Island.
u2019-06-11-128	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-06-11-129	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, Thank you very much for the opportunity to try and answer your question. In close cooperation with Mayor István Tarlós about the development of the island of Óbuda, the government intends to work with the long-term goals of Budapest in line with the development plan, since this area is indeed an unexploited opportunity to create a viable environment with its archeological, architectural and natural heritage and a good approach. I would like to say to you that there is nothing to justify your fears, because that environment, that place, and anything that will take place there as a development, while preserving our built and natural heritage, will help Budapest to be among the three best and most livable cities in Europe by 2030. I can assure you that there is no plan on the government's table or anywhere that would expose this natural heritage to any danger or change. A responsible decision is to be taken, and there is no measure on the government's table that would give you the basis or the basis for which you could have asked that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-130	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-131	Thank you for the floor, Minister. I can see you've been trying, but you haven't been able to fully calm him down. I also saw that he read the exact answer written by Balázs Orbán or parts of it that I quoted earlier. You said it was an untapped social and economic opportunity. What was interesting in Balázs Orbán's reply was that he mentioned the possibility of a periodical restoration. Now, don't write that stupid thing down next time, Mr. Secretary, because if you talk to the Director General of the Aquincum Museum or anyone who's a competent archeologist, it'll tell you there's no such thing. That's what you're thinking, Disney Park. There is no time-honored restoration of the Hadrian palace, because there are eight or nine different ages, so it would be possible to dig it up, but you don't pay for it. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Fortunately, you also have archaeological expertise.]] In the last nine years, it has not been possible to create a public park there, as promised, nor to do these excavations. There may not be such a plan in the government's plans for the moment, but I'm afraid that Antal Rogán and his circles are in his plans. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We will not allow this; as soon as we have prevented the stretching of the Roman coast, we will also prevent this.
u2019-06-11-132	Thank you very much, your time frame is over. Congresswoman, I am obliged to tell you that Secretary of State Balázs Orbán is unable to respond, and I think that you should make your point to the Secretary of State when he can answer you according to the house rules. [[Szabó Timea: But according to the house rules, I can talk to him in peace.]] Thank you, Congresswoman, I will not argue with you. Thank you. Minister, you have the right to answer. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-06-11-133	Mr President, My dear fellow Member, I wanted to draw your attention precisely to the fact that this question should not be a conversation of deaf people, because you seem to be completely unaware of the answer you are getting. There's an alternate reality in you that spins and moves and builds everything. The thing is, they've yelled wolf so many times, who's gonna believe you if he does? [[There's a noise in the dialogue.]] I would ask you to accept the answer that any proposal that might have triggered all this question or fear from you is not on the government's table and that these debates should be held. And I ask you to accept each other's sentences and answers, because if we cannot speak to each other in the form of questions or dialogue, then we will be in great trouble because you will never accept any story. [[Szabó Timea: Minister, tell this to your colleagues at the Brussels table.]] But you're asking me this question, and you and I are trying to talk to each other. I'm asking you to do me the favor or the opportunity that if you ask and get an answer, then let's argue or talk to each other and try to understand each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-134	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: to what extent does the introduction of the Economic Protection Action Plan contribute to the success of businesses? It's an address. Minister Tállai appointed Deputy Minister, State Secretary, to respond to an urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, Mr Talai Deputy Minister, or to ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2019-06-11-135	Thank you. I accept Mr. Secretary of State Tállai.
u2019-06-11-136	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán recently announced that the government will launch an economic protection action plan to protect the performance of the Hungarian economy. The action plan covers areas of major importance for economic growth in Hungary. The economic protection action plan is particularly important for businesses, as the tax burden on labour is further reduced. From July, the social contribution tax will be reduced by 2 percentage points to 17.5 percent, leaving around HUF 150 billion per year for Hungarian businesses. From January, the small business tax will be reduced by 1 percentage point to 12 percent, which affects more than 40,000 Hungarian small entrepreneurs, leaving them with HUF 5 billion a year. Development tax relief will also be extended, with a tax reduction of around 7,000 enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, I have mentioned only a few points of the economic defence action plan launched by the government, and it is clear from them that the Fidesz-KDNP government is doing more with this one measure for Hungarian companies and the development of the Hungarian economy than was previously done by the left direction of Ferenc Gyurcsány. The Fidesz-KDNP government has made every effort and has done so in recent years for the Hungarian economy, starting by restoring the country's economy from the brink of total collapse, to which the socialist government, which lasted eight years between 2002 and 2010. Ferenc Gyurcsány, under his governance, did not represent the interests of the Hungarian economy, not the Hungarian companies and not the Hungarian people, but destroyed companies by tax increases, eliminated jobs and made it impossible to raise wages. Dear Secretary of State, From 2010 Hungarian economy and Hungarian businesses show upward performance and produce better results every year. That is why I am asking how much the economic protection action plan contributes to the success of businesses. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-138	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The essence of the economic defence action plan is understood by those who have seen a process since 2010, since the establishment of the Fidesz-KDNP government in the field of economic policy. The government's economic policy objective was initially to create jobs, and it is to increase employment today, but we need to know that at that time unemployment was 12 percent, and now 3.5 percent, more than 800 thousand people managed to get jobs. By creating lasting economic growth in recent years, Hungary has grown in the first three countries of the European Union, and now 5.3 percent, which is the highest in the EU. The clear aim of income growth is to increase real income and, for several years now, the real income of workers has been constantly increasing. This is accompanied by a reduction of tax burdens, a 15% personal income tax rate and a 9% corporate tax rate in Europe. It is very important that the government, through tax cuts, also creates competitiveness for small, medium and large international companies. An important objective of the economic protection action plan is to protect the results so far from a possible economic slowdown or other factor that has a negative impact on the economy. With these measures, the government will prevent these effects. [[16.30]] In the area of competitiveness, which we will only vote for in the field of taxation, we leave a significant resource to businesses, which can further increase their investments and developments and, where appropriate, increase workers' wages, this is the objective of the economic protection action plan. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Bravo! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-140	Thank you for the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor, Congressman, for rejoinder.
u2019-06-11-141	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. Of course, it is very important that Hungarian businesses feel the support of the government, so that they can experience that, along the various measures, the interests of Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses are taken into account by the government, and that they should trust that this trend will continue in the long term. I mean, if anyone remembers, between 2002 and 2010 Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] and his left-wing government practically legislated the tax cuts, and immediately after the elections, in 2006, he abolished it, bankrupted the country, even before the global economic crisis in Hungary or the world was even mentioned. In order for Hungarian companies, and especially the SME sector, which employs 60% of Hungarian workers, to be able to develop and become more effective, the government needs to significantly reduce its burdens and support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, If you'll allow me, I'd like to say a few specific measures. As you pointed out in your question, the reduction of the social contribution tax by 2 percentage points will now be 17.5 percent, but when Fidesz began to reduce it, this was 27 percent, and only Fidesz reduced the social contribution tax, the social security contribution rate, and the government now undertakes to cut 144 billion HUF in 2019 and 156 billion in the budget, while at the same time this amount will stay in business and be able to use it for the aforementioned purposes. However, while we are talking about tax changes, it is important to mention the reduction in accommodation VAT, which will clearly facilitate the conditions of tourism as a driving sector. Honourable Congressman, In the past and in the future, the government will continue to govern on this path, a series of economic policy measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercom from the LMP lines.]]
u2019-06-11-144	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:.. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2019-06-11-145	Yeah.
u2019-06-11-146	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, the second Orbán government decided to transform the judicial administration system in Hungary, one of the first steps of which was the establishment of the National Judicial Council in 2011, which followed the National Judicial Council in this position. At the same time, from 1 January 2012, Tünde Hando was elected President of the National Court Office. Our Fundamental Law thus regulated these two offices or institutions, namely Article 25 (paragraph 5):. The central tasks of the administration of ordinary courts are carried out by the President of the National Court Office. The National Judicial Council supervises the central administration of ordinary courts. So OBT became, according to the Fundamental Law, a supervisory body of the National Court Office. OBT has examined the operation of the President of the OBH on several occasions and has made the following findings: the President of the OBH violated the right of citizens to a legal judge through his law-breaking secondment practice to other courts; he has emptied the substance of the application system several times during the examination of the applications for judicial management posts; he has not examined the appointment of a law-breaking district court-martial chair despite OBT's signal; he has submitted his budget proposal for the court chapter to the Government without seeking the opinion of the OBT. The president of the OBT did not answer these questions, and he said that he considered these two organisations to be illegitimate. In my view, the legislation and law policy of the judicial portfolio have led to this result. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There's been an unprecedented situation. In your opinion, Mr. Secretary, how credible it is (The President is ringing the bell. ) government policy? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-06-11-148	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-149	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In studying the law on justice, perhaps my fellow Member has noticed that the government has no administrative or other powers over the courts. You may also have noticed that the President of the National Court Office keeps his report in Parliament year after year, in these reports all the data that arise in this debate, for example, that OBT had submitted or not, were found, so it is likely that there is a false dispute between the organisations here, but the Ministry of Justice has repeatedly expressed its position that the dispute between OBH and OBT is not competent to declare which party is right, the number of those presented by OBH in the illegitimate question is equivalent to OBT. Obviously, the Constitutional Court or other constitutional body can say that, or Parliament can deal with this issue through legislation. We have also decided today on a matter where it was clearly parliamentary competence, the suitability of the President of the OBH, and whether the proposals that came up on behalf of the OBT are well founded. The answer was given on the basis of a proposal from the Judicial Committee, as we know, the President of the OBH was confirmed today by Parliament, so there was no need for any intervention. It would be very strange if, in this response, I, on the part of the Ministry of Justice or the government, expressed a strong opinion that we would give up our consistently represented position and have parliamentary powers for ourselves, or perhaps the powers of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, I would also like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that all interpretations confirming OBT's position on the role of the Ministry of Justice or giving ground to interpretations confirming OBH's position are completely unfounded. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-150	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. The congressman is entitled to a reconnaissance at most in one minute.
u2019-06-11-151	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I apologize for the overshoot. Mr Secretary, there is indeed a lot of truth in what you have said, and there really is no need to take a stand here on this issue, in the debate between the two organisations. I would like to draw your attention in this speech to the fact that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has been saying from the beginning, from the very first moment, that these laws are not good. Whatever five-party, then seven-party, multi-party negotiations, we have always signalled to the Ministry of Justice that these problems will sooner or later be concentrated and gathered together, and they will become unsolvable problems. We have repeatedly signalled to you, Mr Secretary of State, how we should change the legislation, so that these unblessed conditions are avoided, so that citizens' confidence in justice and independent justice is not compromised, so that their confidence in the independence of the court and the independence of the judges will not be undermined by citizens. I think it is certainly the responsibility of the wallet that there has been no change in legislation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]]
u2019-06-11-152	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member mentioned that they had their concerns from the very beginning, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that the relationship between the OBT originally formed and the OBH did not arise during the whole period of any dissonance or debate that would have meant that there should be interference from the legislative side in this process. It is also apparent that some members of the current OBT, so to speak, have taken up a strong, even political role, which one of them specifically stated that these judges should not be afraid of, which I believe could prejudice the separation of powers, in practice, have taken up a position of opposition where they did not demand supervisory, but demand management rights over the OBH, so there is such an interpretation. [[16.40]] Overall, I can say that, of course, if there is a need for legislative intervention to eliminate this conflict in the long term, Parliament will obviously have to consider it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-154	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Balázs Orbán as Secretary of State for his reply to the response to the urgent public mission of Azbej Tristan. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Attila Móring József: Of course.]] Yeah. You have the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-11-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, From the outset, the government has been committed to improving the quality of life of people living in small settlements, with which the Christian Democratic People's Party agrees and supports the measures to this end. The government plans to continue the priority support for small settlements. In the years to come, there will be hundreds of new villagers or villagers' services, and the municipalities will be able to use more state aid than ever. Within the framework of the Hungarian village programme, a tender for the purchase of motor vehicles is available for the care services, with a budget of HUF 5 billion for the government and HUF 3 billion for the remuneration. After the appropriate initial training, the municipality may hire a staff member in the role of villager or teacher. It is the janitor's job to directly participate in the social care system of the settlement, catering, home assistance, the provision of community and social information. You can deliver those in need to a home doctor or health care facility or you can cause them to take medicines. By helping children in kindergarten and school age, you can deliver them to the institutions. They are involved in the organisation of community cultural, sport and leisure activities, and help with the official affairs of citizens. In Hungary, such services operate in more than a thousand settlements. Their work provides irreplaceable help in small settlements where the necessary institutions are not built or are not present and therefore needs to be transported elsewhere. Dear Secretary of State, I think I can say on behalf of all of us that the continuous development of a well-functioning social and municipal care system, improving conditions, ensuring fair pay is also an essential task. So, with respect, I ask you how the work of the village caregiver service is expanding, changing in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-11-156	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, who I follow, that I did not signal him first. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-157	Thank you very, very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The fate of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian countryside is important to Hungary's Government. We see that the left-wing governments have destroyed the Hungarian agricultural area, they have weakened the Hungarian countryside, they have played the Hungarian lands into the hands of foreigners, and the damage they have caused meant not only poor, empty villages, broken buildings, but also the beauty of rural life, the rural environment, the attachment to traditions, and the belonging to the community. We believe that Hungary is not without the Hungarian countryside, there is no Hungarian countryside without Hungarian people. Today, when Hungary performs well in an economic sense, the government aims to ensure that the Hungarian people, although living in a big city or in the smallest settlement of the country, find security, peace and access to the services that provide them with the right living conditions. We see that the Hungarian village programme is indeed the largest rural development programme of all time, which uses all means to achieve this goal. The programme will be conducted under the leadership of Commissioner Alpár Gyopáros. Within this framework, the budget will provide HUF 150-150 billion directly or indirectly to Hungarian rural people in 2019 and 2020. This programme also includes the expansion of the system of village and folklore services mentioned by you. We agree that these villagers play an essential role in the smallest settlements where the institutional system is not available, such as catering, access to health services and the delivery of preschoolers, minors and children to institutions. They're doing a very, very important job. Thank you for your work this way. I will also report on enlargement in my next speech. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-11-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-159	Thank you very much. I fully agree with what the Secretary of State has said. The staff of the village and folklore service are doing a very wide range of work. As a former mayor, I can confirm that. We welcome the enlargement of the possibility of using this service in settlements with an ever higher population. In any case, it is also appropriate to raise the wages of villagers and workers in the service. It is certainly worth considering that we can also replace these broad and extremely busy people in small settlements, since there is no case that when villagers fall out for sick leave or other reasons, the mayors are forced to sit on these cars in order to ensure that the service is undisturbed. But it is very remarkable that this work will still be done, and I should like to thank them anyway. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-11-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As I promised, the government's decision will allow the service to start in hundreds of settlements in the coming years, and the municipalities will be able to use greater state aid. At the moment, settlements with a population of less than 600 people may apply for state aid to assist in the operation of village care services, but as this may be necessary for the more populous settlements, the government has decided to increase the limit of the number of inhabitants to 800 from 1 January 20, from 22 to 1000. There are approximately 300 settlements in Hungary with 600-800 inhabitants, another 200 until we reach a thousand people, so potentially 500 new village care services can be launched in the coming years. The government also decided to increase the annual support of existing services up to HUF 3.1 million by HUF 1.1 million this year. Thus, next year, the new start-up services can now use HUF 4.2 million of state resources for this very, very important work they are doing. I ask for your support and thank you for your interest. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-11-162	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 47 minutes. We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. We will now continue our work by discussing the questions. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Prime Minister a question about the change of population or economic development? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, who is competent and competent according to the subject, answers the question at the request of the Minister, Minister Sándor Bodó, State Secretary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-163	Mr President, Dear House, Several points in the package, which has been announced as an economic defence action plan, are also close to me, since there are points proposed by Jobbik and other opposition representatives. At the same time, there is an unsolvable gap between us and the attitude of the governing parties. This is about their so-called workers' hostel construction programme. So far, the government has typically opened up the possibility for the local government to request support for workers' housing and then to import foreign workers. This has been done with such success that the number of people who have been imported into Hungary by this government and its predecessor Fidesz-KDNP is well over 100,000, or is running in Hungary on a 90-day rotation system. The government is now extending this programme which actually contributes to a kind of population exchange. Why can we talk about changing populations, because on the one hand there are about 600 thousand Hungarians, who have to earn their daily bread in the black economy or at the very edge of the grey economy under unbolded conditions. It could be fixed here. But there was also a similar social crowd, who left Hungary under duress, typically forced to emigrate, so that, say, the Dutch would pay his foreign exchange loan here. They didn't try to keep them at home with any motif, with a government-based housing program. At the same time, he seems to want to fill the place of those leaving in the knowledge of the shortage of labour. For this reason, Hungary's Government intends to extend this to the entrepreneurial sphere for some reason. Secretary of State, it is quite clear to me who you want to favour with this programme. Obviously not for Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Which multinationals have ordered the new workforce, what methods do they imagine of importing the new workforce, if you will, its rotation, its imports, and how much do they consider to be capable of doing so from a government that is even national? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[16.50]]
u2019-06-11-164	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-11-165	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congressman! Dear House, I would like to inform the Member that there is no change of population. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: The numbers show otherwise!]] There's no change of population. The fact is that the world of workers is a colorful but also very regulated world. Allow me to draw your attention to the fact that there are obviously domestic workers whose primary employment is extremely important to us, but the same rights apply to all EU workers. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I'm sorry. The next category is the two neighbouring countries, which are not EU Member States, there is also a regulatory order, and what you are really talking about is probably third countries that are obviously not among the previous ones. In their case, there is always a very important rule on employment, namely the issue of a residence permit. The organisation authorised to issue a residence permit shall consider all aspects on the basis of which: [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] These people in Hungary can take up work with health aspects, skills, and a very important rule is that there is no domestic or European Union employee to do the job. In this case, if these tests are carried out, [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That is not true!]] It may then be possible for these people to work in Hungary and contribute to the strengthening of the economy. This has rules, a particular worker records this and can last for a maximum of two years. And there's nothing at all about the construction of a worker's hostel that you're talking about happening on someone's order. So far, it has been the municipalities that have set up such facilities to help the labour shortage in a given settlement, and now, obviously, in compliance with the demands of the economic operators and not at all the multinationals, we are looking at this possibility so that companies may also be able to establish working accommodations in order to have a sufficient number of skilled workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-166	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, from the group of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice a question, 'How many families will you put on the street this year? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2019-06-11-167	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We have dealt with the issue of eviction between the walls of Parliament several times. The statistics are now being blown from the head: over 10,000 families have been evicted in the last three years, 3212 in the previous year, and more in the previous year, about 3636. Dear fellow Members, There was a commendable act by the government when the eviction moratorium was extended for a month, although many of us called attention at that time to the fact that it should not be a moratorium, but a comprehensive program where families in distress would not remain without shelter. Last week, we would have dealt with this issue on the motion of my fellow Members in the Committee on Welfare if the Fidesz majority hadn't rejected it, but there were some issues that we could, of course, have discussed; this has shown that there have been very extreme situations in recent times. My fellow Members mentioned a family where children were clearly torn away for the sole reason that they could not provide a roof over their heads. Four children were raised in the family, two children were taken into state care and two were left with the parents. It's absurd. I just can't find a word for it. I think that during my twenty-five to twenty-six years of political career, I have never seen such a situation, but I know that child welfare services have not been able to come up with a similar story. It was the same extreme situation when a mother raised an autistic child by putting him out on the street, with the help of karma, and they literally had to move under the bridge. That's why I'm asking: how many proceedings are under way, Mr. Secretary? How many families are the swords of Damocles hanging over? And they have a program [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to prevent at least families raising children from staying without a roof? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-11-168	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-11-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, you have asked these questions in writing several times and you have received the answer several times. We know that in all cases where there is an enforcement procedure, there are many reasons. When we talk about apartments, house evacuations, it's enough to talk about arbitrary housing bookers, corporate properties that cover the debts of companies, housing tenants, where local governments ask for the evacuation of property for non-payment and other reasons, as a result of property-law private lawsuits, and finally, when we talk about bank assets, the issue of foreign exchange credentialers you have said a lot about. The Member mentioned a number; on the other hand, for example, we only solved the housing of 36,000 families at the asset manager. In cases where children are involved in enforcement cases, the municipalities and guardians authorities concerned shall also provide for their accommodation. I would refer you back if we were talking about foreign currency loans and housing debts to the Hungarian Orange for a 2003. 05. His article, which was published on 22nd, which began this way, was expected a long time ago that, despite what was said in the campaign of parliamentary elections, the then government was the MSZP-SZDSZ, perhaps you remember, Mr President, you were sitting here in Parliament and leaving the EU referendum behind, the government is amending the system of housing loan subsidies. In practice, at that moment, the entire population was halved, the interest was raised, and the entire population was brought into the arms of the foreign currency loan. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You introduced the currency loan...]] With the help of the banks, and all of this has meant that from 2010 onwards, for years, this Parliament, this majority of governments, has had to work to save as many people as possible, hundreds of thousands of families, from this debt trap, which we have managed to solve to a large extent, and without your help, you have not voted for it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-170	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. The government takes into account the real opinion of the people in the 2019 municipal elections? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2019-06-11-171	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, In Szombathely, the opposition showed in October 2018 that it was able to win, László Győző became the municipal representative of Derkovitson, who has since shown how to really do municipal work. At the same time, we could not expect Csaba Hende to do systematic work to destroy his own majority in Szombathely, so that the opposition, under the leadership of the Élvi Szombathely Association, was able to take over the majority of the body of representatives in Szombathely. This new opposition majority has already shown how to govern the city in the interests of the people of Saturday, as it has launched a municipal rental program, has given more money to playgrounds in this budget, and most importantly, this majority has already been able to arrange for more money for completely unsustainable road and sidewalk conditions in Szombathely. Csaba Hende, the city's representative of parliament, was able to arrange one thing: that is to get money for a stadium he didn't want, but he couldn't bring any other resources to Szombathely City in the past period. [[Dr. Pál Völner: He's got a highway!]] The fact is that often Fidesz says that they should be voted for in municipal elections because they can bring development money. It's blackmail. On the other hand, I ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior to assure the people of Saturday that if they decide to end the Hende-Pushkas rule that has not developed Szombathely enough, and, on the other hand, under the leadership of András Nemény, with the Éljel Szombathely Association, the government will be cooperative and will acknowledge the will of the people, and will acknowledge that not everything they want is happening, and if a city is neglected for years, for years a man considers it to be the property of fief. This consequence will be said by the people of Saturday in October, and you have one task: to accept it. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-172	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-06-11-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I will present to the government a proposal that will give pro-government, socialist politicians a strong opportunity and mandate in regional regional regional development councils. We know what to do. Trust me. I know I can't give you any other details right now, but I'm glad we understand each other. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[17.00]] This was said by the Minister of Interior of the Gyurcsány government, Congressman, your ally after the failed municipal elections, Congressman. [[It's grumpy.]] Yeah, I can see you're surprised. That's how he threatened the municipalities. After that, they did what they did, they indebted the municipalities, there was a situation where the municipalities had to live up to their assets and take credit for their operations. After 2010, the government took over the loan, not examining the party status of the management of the municipalities, and the municipalities that did not owe it, no matter what party management it was, also received support, were given the opportunity to carry out all that was not done by credit. Szombathely has evolved, developed and will continue to develop. In Szombathely, in order to promote the development of the government, and obviously the country had an interest, for example, in the highway. It is part of the fact that I looked into the fact that there is no LMP representative in Szombathely, just as there is nothing on the LMP website or Facebook page going back a year that deals with public affairs in Szombathely. [[Péter Ungár: This accusation that I am not involved in Szombathely's affairs has not yet been formulated!]] Honourable Congressman, I believe you are proud that this cooperation has been established, but this cooperation means that the LMP will implement it and support it verbally as Ferenc Gyurcsány tells it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-174	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Interior:. What is the shortage of staff in the Budapest Water Police and why has the Viking hotel ship been released from Hungary? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2019-06-11-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to thank the professionals who are currently working on the Danube, the professional staff, all due respect, the superhuman work they have done to highlight the Mermaid. Our task, as Members, is now to create a legislative environment that excludes the possibility of the tragedy happening again. Since the ship's accident, a professional debate has started about the causes of the tragedy. According to experts, the rules on shipping in the Danube would be basically appropriate if they were to comply with the rules. From the radar scans released, you can see that the Mermaid could have been irregular three times before the crash. If the problem is non-compliance, then the question arises: there are enough water policemen to enforce the rules and to punish those who are guilty of the rules. From the data, it appears that the BRFK is understaffed, presumably not enough police officers at the Duna Water Police Police Department. I asked the Minister of the Interior a few days ago about the police shortage. The answer was that the current level of shortage of staff for a staff as large as the police does not prevent the full performance of professional tasks. On this basis, I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the shortage of personnel in the Budapest Water Police Department in order to clarify the matter. Exactly how many patrolmen are missing from the Budapest platoon? How many water policemen served at the time of the tragedy on the Danube in Budapest? Are you planning to increase the number of patrols so that there will be no further accidents in the future? And why was the Viking hotel ship allowed to leave Hungary, because, as I understand it, this hotel ship was still under investigation today? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-06-11-176	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-11-177	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank those involved in the search, those involved in the rescue, who have worked to save those in distress, to search for the victims and bring the shipwreck to the surface. This sacrifice has resulted in early this afternoon, and I thank you for your heroic work. I would also like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that this task can only be carried out effectively if political parties do not put pressure on rescue professionals or on investigating authorities for political gain. Honourable Congressman, It's not polite to go into politics with this painful accident. As far as the situation of the water police is concerned, there are enough water policemen, all conditions are provided by the Ministry of Interior in order to ensure that the water police perform their duties effectively, as they have done before. I'd like to thank the water police personnel. I'd like to say that you're currently involved in the search for the victims by 16 ships. Under the direct direction of the Ministry of the Interior, the removal of the shipwreck started this morning at 6:30 p.m., with the assistance of the Counter-Terrorism Centre, and was successfully completed in the early afternoon. 498 participants were Hungarians, foreigners, professionals and collaborators. Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, informed on the scene about the conditions of the rescue, spoke with the members of the Korean delegation and the relatives of the victims. Minister also met with the Ambassador, expressing his immediate condolences to the relatives present. The Minister asked the national police commissioner to double the number of persons involved in the search for persons on the coast, a decision was taken on this matter and an instruction was given. Four bodies were taken out of the wreckage by 12:00 today, and four more victims are being searched for. Both Hungarian victims have been identified. The Government of Hungary has taken all necessary measures and will take all necessary measures to find the persons still registered as missing and to fully clarify the circumstances leading to the accident. The investigation into this... [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Allow me, because, I think, this is an important question, to go beyond the time frame and finish it. The investigation in this regard is the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings. It is in compliance with the procedural guarantee, which does not otherwise impose an obligation to book. We stick to the unbroken parliamentary practice of not declaring ongoing criminal proceedings. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, In this connection, I wanted to inform the Member about his question and the Honourable Parliament. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Alpár Gyopáros, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Has the government's vision of supporting the food industry been fulfilled? What is the Agri-Market plan for the development of the food industry and for further strengthening food safety? And in particular: what is the Government doing to facilitate Hungarian meat exports? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-11-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, the Government of Hungary has paid particular attention to the food industry, declaring it a strategic sector. The reason for this is obvious: on the one hand, the industry is the second most profitable and output sector in the manufacturing industry after the production of vehicles, and on the other hand the second largest employer. The sector's turnover in 2017 exceeded HUF 3600 billion, the export rate being one third of the revenue. It is a significant positive that the food industry is growing dynamically, with profits more than doubled over the last five years. On the other hand, the sector's support has also improved significantly compared to previous periods: since 2014, nearly HUF 230 billion has been awarded to the industry, mainly from domestic and EU sources, which has led to significant investment growth in all corporate sizes. In addition, the role of nutrition is increasingly important: in 2017 the population spent more than 10 percent on food than a year ago. Consciousness has a role to play in this, and the regulations and guidelines of the Hungarian Food Book are of particular importance in the development of these approaches. It is a clear goal for Hungarian consumers to obtain safe, high-quality food, and the Hungarian food industry produces as much of these foods as possible from the raw materials produced by Hungarian agriculture. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State: has the government's vision of supporting the food industry been achieved? What does the agricultural portfolio plan for the development of the food industry and for the further strengthening of food safety? And in particular: what is the government doing to facilitate Hungarian meat exports? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-180	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State, who will answer the question.
u2019-06-11-181	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Since 2010, the government has paid particular attention to the food industry. The increasingly profitable sector with significant turnover provides more than 90,000 people with jobs. For the period 2014-2020, the government intends to provide some HUF 300 billion in support and to reach the food industry, which is expected to be achieved by the end of 2018. We will also pay particular attention to the sector in the planning of the next support period. [[17.10]] It is a clear goal for Hungarian consumers to obtain safe, high-quality foods that support health preservation, and the Hungarian food industry produces as much of these foods as possible from the raw materials produced by Hungarian agriculture. To do this, he prepared a development plan for the Agricultural Ministry, which focuses on the recovery of the internal market with the source and umbrella mark in the management of the Agricultural Ministry. Honourable Congressman, I could answer the second part of the question very briefly in a few more thoughts. We are discussing export expansion opportunities with a number of countries. At the World Organisation for Animal Health meeting held in May this year, we consulted the veterinary authorities of 16 countries at the main veterinary level. Last year, we finalised some 80 new export certificates with third country authorities, in large part with regard to the new target areas for Hungarian exports. In April this year, the export of Hungarian poultry meat to China was agreed, and Singapore, Japan and Thailand recognise the guarantees provided by the Hungarian veterinary service, so in the future only restrictions will be introduced in the event of a possible domestic outbreak of avian influenza against poultry products from the infected area. With regard to pigmeat exports, Singapore has been able to agree on the conditions for the re-launch of the African swine fever ban and we are negotiating with a number of other countries. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-11-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. Do you know what is going on in the Ráckeve Danube branch? It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2019-06-11-183	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Infrastructure is a system that provides the basic structure of our society, which is now an indispensable condition for our existence. It is no coincidence that, for reasons of environmental safety, the EU Directive provides for the identification, designation of critical infrastructures and the need for their defence development. The collection, drainage and cleaning of municipal waste water is also part of the critical infrastructure. Therefore, it is unacceptable that if the government no longer provides for the reconstruction of the 100-150-year-old water utilities in Budapest, it would at least ensure that waste and precipitation water introduced into a unified sewer can be caught in reservoirs with sufficient capacity before cleaning, and not spilled into the Ráckeve Duna branch of Natura 2000 as a huge amount of waste water, as has been done in the past days, and may continue to happen for months. For years, professional plans have been ready to implement this problem. The pre-emptive storage of precipitation and waste water from the waste water treatment plant in South Pest, through the transfer of purified waste water to the Danube, would prevent waste water from entering the Danube branch without cleaning. I ask Minister what concrete measures are planned, when and from what source, with how much effort, so that this and similar cases cannot happen again. And when is an action plan for the comprehensive reconstruction of domestic water utilities expected to be submitted? I look forward to your reply.
u2019-06-11-184	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-11-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, a long time ago the plan was completed, for example, for the transfer of sewage to the Danube main branch, but the former City Council did not contribute to this, and these plans could not be implemented in this way. Therefore, the government had to plan new development steps and take steps in a new direction. That's what's going on, we're doing everything we can to prevent pollution and improve water quality. The Ráckevei-Soroksári Danube branch, the side branch, has been renovated to refurbish the floodgate shut-off devices, the water quality monintoring system has been completed, and the multi-functional water draining artifact has begun. In 2015, the spine line was laid in the resort area of 14 municipalities and the transfer was established. The construction of the ship's airlock reconstruction has begun, and plans have been made for the extension of the South-Pest waste water treatment plant's three-chamber shower pool and the related construction proposal has been announced. The preparation and preparation of the action plan on comprehensive reconstruction has begun. In the framework of the Kehop 2.2.2 call, developments related to the water catchment area of the Sewage Cleaning Plant in South-Pest were named with an indicative support framework of nearly HUF 3 billion, under which the sludge drainage, the development of water treatment, the development of nutrient removal and the introduction of biodegradable waste water into the Ráckevei-Soroksár Danube branch. In the 2018 Finance Act, the public reconstruction fund for water utilities allocated HUF 1.5 billion, with the aim of carrying out reconstruction work in order to improve the systems. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-11-186	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:, At what rate does the eradication of the pregnant legacy of the past, the metropolitan roads continue? It's an address. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor.
u2019-06-11-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Budapest, we know that it is not only the country, the capital of the Hungarian nation, but also one of Europe's most dynamically developing settlements, thanks to its big city and its security, it is one of the most popular and most visited tourist destinations. From 2010, we can say that Budapest has made more progress than in the last twenty years: new public institutions, new public spaces, sports investments, Liget project, hundreds of billions of dollars of state funding, international events, could be classified for a long time. Yes, we are proud that Fidesz has done more for Budapest than any other political organization. Nevertheless, there are still tasks to be carried out. One of these is the legacy of the past, mainly concerning the external districts, the problem of inland roads, which Fidesz's management in Budapest proposed a four-year programme a few years ago, and the government provided HUF 10 billion in funding from the 2019 budget for this purpose. Only about my own constituency, the 16th. About the district, let me say that thanks to the government, it was able to receive nearly HUF 800 million in support this year, of which 11 roads are being built, and a dirt road is being dismantled in almost four kilometers of length. On this basis, I would like to ask the Secretary of State how the plan for the elimination of the roads is for the whole of Budapest. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-06-11-188	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Orbán will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-11-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We also believe that, in the context of the development of Budapest's capital city, improving the traffic situation of the metropolitan districts is key, and because of the scale of the tasks, the capital and the districts cannot resolve without the government's support. Therefore, at the beginning of the year, the government decided to assist the metropolitan and district authorities in supplying their own inland land with a solid road cover, which is terminology. On 26 March, a government decision was taken to ultimately support the supply of 326 kilometres of road without solid housing with a solid housing after an amendment. As a first step, we provided HUF 10 billion from the 2019 budget for this purpose. Of these, 45 kilometers of which are paved roads in the capital city are paved in 14 districts. So far, nearly HUF 5 billion of funding has been called off by the municipalities. In most of the districts, construction works are already under way, and in the next few weeks the first sections of the road will be handed over, according to our information, first of all, the XVI, XVIII. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. in the district. However, the government guarantees support not only for this year but also for the next three years, and that all districts will be paved at a roughly equal rate by the end of 2022. In the central budget of 2020 we provided additional HUF 5 billion in support not only for the demolition of inland roads. As a result, we see that the work started will continue next year. Thank you for your support in this regard. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.20]]
u2019-06-11-190	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We're at the end of questioning. It's 5:20. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. Dear Parliament, The DK Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the declaration of Europe-day as a public holiday, T/6050. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on European Affairs. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. The rapporteur is Mr Lajos Oláh. Your speech will now take place in five minutes. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On 9 May 1950, French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman proposed to the European countries fighting each other during the First and Second World Wars to bring their coal and steel production under joint management. This was the moment when the foundation of the European Union was born, when the continent took the path of cooperation and peace between nations. 9 May is therefore considered Europe-wide Day. In February this year, the European Parliament encouraged Member States to make 9 May a public holiday, a common day for all European citizens throughout Europe. Europe is not just a continent, Europe is a cultural and economic community, which strives with its achievements to make life better, easier and more successful for all its citizens. For us Hungarians, Europe is our country in a broader sense, we increase the community with our work, and its successes and results make us richer. As we form a community in both success and difficulty, we have the right and duty to share the holidays. International holiday is a celebration of work, Christmas, Easter and Pentecost for the Christian citizens of Europe, which also connect us. Why shouldn't we celebrate the day that is about this community, Europe, together? The Democratic Coalition has tabled a bill to make Europe Day on 9 May a school day and a public holiday in Hungary. On this day, the EU institutions will open their doors to the public. The aim of the Open Day is to give citizens an insight into the work of the European Union institutions. Clearly, the best way to promote this orientation and celebration is to declare this day a school day and a public holiday, like other celebrated holidays in our country. Europe is important, our Europeanism is important, so I ask my fellow Members to join our proposal, to declare Europe Day, 9 May, a school day and a public holiday. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-06-11-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As I supported the inclusion of the proposal before us at the Committee on European Affairs, I am now confirming in plenary that the Jobbik Group supports the start of a substantive debate on the proposal to declare Europe Day, 9 May, a public holiday day. I hope that we will also hear a speech from the Fidesz and/or KDNP benches on the pro-government side in this context, because unfortunately, at the committee meeting, they could not put forward any substantive arguments as to why they did not support this motion. So it would be good for this to take place at the plenary session, but looking around the room, I am quite skeptical in this regard. In any case, I would like to underline that Jobbik considers it important, as a centre-right, modern and pro-European force, that Hungary declare that it clearly intends to continue its operation as a member of the European Union, in the coming years, decades, adding that, of course, fundamental changes and reforms are also necessary in the community. And Jobbik's MEP, Márton Gyöngyösi, will also work on this through the necessary cooperation. And what I find very sad is that from the pro-government side, from the Fidesz side, we are faced with mostly populist manifestations over the past period. To give just one example of the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs today: Deputy State Secretary Pál Péter Schmitt talked only about migration, immigration, and that is what the representatives of Fidesz have done, instead of giving up crucial topics such as environmental protection, climate change or social issues. I therefore reiterate once again that Jobbik will support the inclusion of this motion in the vote and I urge all my fellow Members to do so. [[Applause from Jobbik and DK.]]
u2019-06-11-194	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-195	Thank you very much. I'll try to be brief. In addition to supporting this motion, I voted in the same way at the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee. In fact, there could not be a debate there; simply the Fidesz Members voted against this motion, as have many other proposals. I myself believe that there are common values of the European Union in which each Member State must manifest itself, as my fellow Member has just mentioned here, for reasons beyond policies such as climate protection or environmental protection or nature protection. They are all issues which, I think, have preferences that, regardless of who has a political attitude or value, must support these initiatives. I, of course, will speak in favour of social Europe, all the more so because the European Union has many initiatives, many recommendations to the Member States that should be considered. I would just like to point out that a year and a half ago, the statement that makes recommendations to our government on some 20 points was adopted in Gothenburg; the Hungarian Prime Minister rightly signed this document. The only reason I am able to express my disappointment in this speech is because since then I have not seen a single proposal that has been drafted and presented to Parliament in the light of these twenty points. Summa summarum: we will support this initiative. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on behalf of the factions. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Lajos Oláh, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor in two minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see that those who care about Europe have spoken up and expressed their views. Fidesz decided they'd rather sleep. Well, they are trying to acknowledge the defeat suffered in the European Union by the party family that they will soon belong to. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-06-11-198	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the measures necessary for the revision of the legislation on the care of persons with disabilities, H/5551. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, as rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-199	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, This subject seems to have to be on the agenda almost as regular in the last seven months, as it is known to my fellow Members that, at the beginning of November last year, the Constitutional Court adopted a resolution obliging the Government, with effect from 31 March, to establish a new rule that the disabled who had already received an invalidity pension before 2012... a great deal of them, especially here in Section III. This is a group of invalids who have been reassigned and two types of care could subsequently be established for them, rehabilitation care or disability care. [[17 .30]] At the same time, the Constitutional Court stated that the person who had already received a disability pension before 2012 had, as a matter of expectation, the possibility of a pension as well as a lot of benefits and support for pension status that had been deprived of these people after 2012. I would refer here, for example, to transport aid or to public health care. I would ask this House to be included in a series of articles and to vote positively in the course of tomorrow's day, all the more, I must mention that the Constitutional Court has clearly stated what the problem is with this law, because it has said that very many people have not taken into account the state in which the person was placed, all the more so, because they have simply been classified as one percent or have been virtually demoted by these people, as a result of which they have received lower care or even withdrawn from a large number of people. The reason I'm bringing this up is that when someone could get a disability pension, a group disability pensioner, where the amount of the disability pension depended on the duration of the insurance relationship, and was established in proportion to the amount of the contribution paid. Thereafter, from 2012 onwards, it simply does not depend on all the periods of service, and it is hardly dependent on the action under which the person pays a contribution as a taxable income. As a result, there are very, very many who have been in an unworthy situation in recent years, some estimates suggest that this could affect between 70 and 80 thousand people. By the way, during the reviews, Annex III is amended as follows: The number of group invalids was 196 thousand, but we never got a really exact number to see how many people were deprived of care in the year, how many people were reduced in the year and how much. It can only be estimated that the state has saved hundreds of billions on these people, but these people are in an unworthy situation. Nevertheless, I would like to note that I have already submitted a Parliamentary resolution proposal after the Constitutional Court resolution, in which, to sum up, I mention only three points what the government should do. One thing that doesn't cost money is to apologize to these people. The second is that everyone who has suffered some damage as a result of the government's decision must be compensated retroactively for these people, and legislation must be made that if someone cannot use it, because he has died for an example in the meantime, this compensation should extend to his heirs. I think that this measure should also be considered for my fellow members of the Government and that tomorrow we will vote in favour. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-11-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. No one came forward in writing. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group.
u2019-06-11-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Our country has about half a million disabilities and about one and a half million persistent diseases. Life expectancy is seven years shorter than the luckier half of Europe, one third of men are not even worth the retirement age, and about fifty percent of them are suffering from some kind of chronic illness. How does the government relate to these people, how does the orange cartel relate to them? By viewing these people as free-to-eviscerated yokels, in fact, as labor animals, and if they are no longer able to skin them, they will then be sent to the existential slaughterhouse, as happened on 1 January 2012 when the pension rules changed. Indeed, the change in the whole Hungarian pension system caused a significant proportion of invalidity and accident pensioners to be kicked off the Taigetos side with noble simplicity. Taigetos was the mountain of the ancient Spartans, where infants who were considered lifeless were put to die. This is how they looked at these people here, in the benches of Fidesz, as Viktor Orbán was more afraid of his own wallet than to give these people worthy respect, and they pushed tens of thousands of people into a life situation that these people did not deserve. From social sensitivity, you've passed the test, it's a sociopathic, chemically neoliberal view, and we can safely say that the spirit of you being worth as much as you are, and if your workforce isn't anything that suits us, then we'll write you down. That's what these people did. The Jobbik, by the way, says that everything goes back, but these people are entitled to full compensation. In addition, we proclaim that real equal opportunities must be offered to our fellow countrymen who have suffered an accident, illness, or even tense work, but who have been crippled. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-11-202	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Probably, not surprisingly, the Fidesz guys will listen again, they just like to take money away from disabled pensioners, but they really don't want to deal with their problems, they turn around and go across the street, because apart from themselves, they leave everyone on the side of the road. It is not only a question of the Constitutional Court, but also an obligation on a humane basis, I think that this House should take it as an item on the agenda and negotiate this matter. DK supports the presentation by Lajos Korózs, and I would like to ask everyone to do the same. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-204	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We are used to the Fidesz people acting like thieves, the fact that government is actually synonymous with organized theft, but the fact is, even the thieves take out the one who steals the little income or wealth they have from the poorest. This is exactly what you have done; what you have done to the invalids, what you have done to our fellow countrymen who have lost their health at work or illness, is the lowest level of theft, and the moral standard that you have shown through it gives you a very accurate picture of your entire government. The Dialogue appreciates the initiative of Lajos Korózs and the MSZP, and, of course, for our part, we will support the inclusion of this proposal on the agenda. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-206	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group.
u2019-06-11-207	Thank you very much. If we were to imitate it here, as if the Fidesz Members were to comment on this debate, although they would not normally do so, then they would say that the original meaning of this decision was to reverse the many abuses that had occurred in Hungary with the disability pension system. The fact that this was not successful and that the abuses were not rejected is, in fact, accepted by the social government, since since then, after this decision, twenty-seven times they have touched this whole system. So all in all, they realized that this alone did not serve the purpose that they would have wanted. It served to balance public finances on the back of these people, and they simply wanted to save money here. They wanted to save on how many percent, how much they'd get disability pensions, and how much they'd cost. This is unacceptable, in our view, and the Constitutional Court's decision must be implemented in a rule of law. Your work is to implement this, there is a government apparatus, and therefore the LMP supports the proposal of our fellow Member, Mr Korózs. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-208	Thank you very much. I'm asking if someone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Lajos Korózs, as rapporteur, if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2019-06-11-209	Very briefly. It was March 31, I repeat, the deadline. I think that the Constitutional Court was fair to the government because it said that it would give them four and a half months, almost five months, to create this legislation. It's been more than two months. Technically, we're past the seventh month, and I'm looking forward to having nine months of delivery to see if they can deliver this legislation. Besides, if you don't know, you're welcome to read it, by the way, Minister Gergely Gulyás, in his reply to an interpellation, said that in the drafting of the legislation, you will take into account the proposal for a parliamentary resolution that I have tabled, all the points that the Minister has read and said that it is possible to accept. [[17.40]] One thing was not accepted by the Fidesz MEPs in their speeches at the committee meeting, who spoke, they said that it would impose a disproportionate burden on the budget. Well, then they must have done some calculations, and if they've done calculations, they'll have to be brought here to the National Assembly to meet all opposition representatives. All the more so, because they have an annual statement, because they had to make decisions about each client. In place left the previous supply, modified if modified, then down or down, usually, of course, if they reduced their supply, reduced by how much, then it can be calculated how much money these people were deprived of for the rest of the time, or if they had taken away their supply from someone, it simply seems so. It is also possible to figure out how much money has been saved on these people as time goes by, and if the Constitutional Court has decided that it was wrong to take it or reduce it, then I would ask you nicely to compensate them. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to support my motion tomorrow.
u2019-06-11-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide on certain amendments to the law necessary to prevent the homelessness of families with children, T/5905. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Szabó Timea, Head of the Group, as rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This very important proposal was submitted by several of us on the proposal of the City Everyone Group. We know that housing poverty affects more than two and a half million people in Hungary today, there are tens of thousands of people on the street, hundreds of thousands of people are threatened by homelessness, millions of people, including children in inhumane conditions, homes with either a wet roof or no toilet or even moldy walls. We also know that there are 900,000 enforcement procedures in progress, which we know from the Minister himself. These are mainly foreign currency loans. If we count 900,000 people in the course of this and 900,000 in the process, it is potentially possible that if we consider families, up to 2-3 million people could be indirectly threatened with eviction. Over 3,000 actual evictions have taken place in the last year, mostly families with small children or sick elderly people who should have been helped by the state. Over the last three years, there have been more than 10,000 evictions. If we count again, say, a family of four, it could have affected up to 50,000 people in the last three years. It's an Eger-sized city that the government couldn't or didn't want to save because of its carelessness, negligence and inhumanity. This happens when we know that Viktor Orbán's son-in-law of István Tiborcz earned HUF 35 billion at the age of 32, Lőrinc Mészáros earns HUF 7 million per minute. So what we see is that the government only cares about its own NER knights, their own thievery, their own wealth, while they don't give a damn that hundreds of thousands, millions are in danger here, and they live in inhumane conditions. Moreover, the government of Viktor Orbán does not comply with its own Fundamental Law on this matter either, since Article 22 states that Hungary is striving to ensure the conditions for decent housing for all. The opposition has initiated an extraordinary meeting to discuss how we can immediately help families who are about to be evicted, how we can save foreign exchange families, how we can prevent children from getting under the bridge. Zero, or zero, members of the government, came to this extraordinary meeting. Once again, the past eight years were over, and they were babbling, and it must be Brussels and Soros, and everyone else, except the government. It's such a shame! The pro-government representatives, the three who have just appeared here in this debate, [[Intercoms from the LMP lines: Four!]] They are not here now, and they will not press a button to answer that, they should be ashamed of themselves to allow a quarter of Hungarian society to live in these conditions. Our proposal is to prevent, at least as a first step, families with small children from being put on the street without being housed. Have a heart. On more than one occasion, the fact that a single mother was on the street with her end - stage son with cancer occurred literally. An elderly mother who had raised her adult son, living with autism, was literally placed under the bridge. This should not happen in Hungary in the 21st century. 1st century in the European Union! You guys are gonna let this happen. They haven't done anything in the last nine years to help these families with children. What we are asking of you now is that even if you do not want to solve the problem of these millions of people immediately, although you would have had the opportunity to do so in the last nine years, we have not put forward a proposal on how to help these troubled families in a few weeks, but now we are asking you to at least include this proposal in a series of subjects, at least to discuss it. Please state your opinion that if you do not agree literally with this proposal, you should submit an amendment, but at least be willing to talk about the problems of Hungary. Hungary is not performing better. The NER knights perform better, Viktor Orbán's friends perform better, and Lőrinc Mészáros does better. Hungarian families do not perform better. We have a dog duty here, representing the Members, to help these people immediately. Put this in a series of objects, at least. Thank you.
u2019-06-11-212	Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. An independent Member of the Council of Bernadett Szél announced his intention to speak in writing. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-06-11-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'm reading you a message from the NGO that's drawing up the bill, the City of Everyone's Group. The aim of our proposal is to prevent families with children from becoming homeless and, in order to do so, to legislate that families with children should not be evicted without joint accommodation. We think it's the minimum. It is a fundamental moral requirement in which all of us on the left and on the right must agree. It is cruel when families who are about to be evicted are threatened by the authorities to take children away from them, and so families in distress must flee from the public authorities that are supposed to help them. It is cruel to separate children from their parents because of family poverty or homelessness. Although the Child Protection Act clearly states that children should not be separated from their families solely because of financial risks, everyone who works in the area knows that this is happening regularly, often because of inadequate housing conditions or homelessness in families. In addition to the homelessness of families with children, the bill seeks to prevent this, the separation of families, and the unbearable fear of it. We call on the pro-government representatives to rise above the party's ownership of the draft bill and, if necessary, to do what is right and to support the bill. Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2019-06-11-214	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, who has indicated his intention to speak. [[17.50]]
u2019-06-11-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It's hard to start these two minutes because you guys on the posters are saying that the child is our first. On the other hand, I see that none of their Members were present at the extraordinary parliamentary session convened on this subject, and I see that no pro-government contributions were made at the Commission's hearing of this bill, and I see that five pro-government Members are now sitting here in Parliament against us. For you, the child is the last. I am sorry that by saying this, I am disturbing or waking up my fellow Member Böröcz. [[Defiance.]] I believe that this proposal, which lies before us, is a minimum. We feel responsible for the next generation, the generation that can't be held at the very least responsible for putting itself in a life situation that threatens to terrorize homelessness. My fellow members of the Government, if the child is the first for you, and the child is the first for us, and you truly represent Christian values within the walls of this holy House, then I have only one request, just as I am asking the opposition, but I know that they will do it: support the inclusion of this proposal on the agenda and the inclusion of it in the series of subjects. And if you have a little heart and a little conscience, then vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-216	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-217	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to make it clear to the fellow government representatives that the people we are talking about are not barcodes and not statistics of a production conference. Here in Parliament, we hear a lot of budget debates, behind which people seem to be barcodes and production reports on a daily basis. We've heard a lot of these things today. I would prevent evictions for everyone, whether it be families with small children or anyone else who is in a difficult situation. That is why we demanded an immediate extension of the eviction moratorium. I would add that implementations should also be subject to a moratorium so that they cannot artificially increase their debt during the eviction break. This also had the Commission's debate, and I would like to say that your Fidesz fellow Member justified the rejection of the moratorium, so that they should not help these people in any way that anyone who was irresponsible in his opinion, so I do not think so, but your fellow Member does not deserve any help. That's exactly the mentality I think you should put away after a two-thirds victory. After the elections, we talked about how your human quality is determined by how, after an election victory, you can behave with political opponents, how you can open up real debates, and not just spitting at the opposition in a sloppy, spitting way, and how you treat, how you treat, how you treat, how you treat, with our more difficult-to-be fellow citizens; how you behave with those who, in your eyes, respect for the exception, but many times, are just barcodes. I do not want a budget debate to decide the fate of these people, so I call on you to carry out the relevant debates. If your certificate is clear, you will certainly be able to explain that. To do so, however, we need a debate and we need to support the proposal before us. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-06-11-218	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group.
u2019-06-11-219	Thank you very much. Dear House, The trend can be projected in advance: there will be more eviction, it is obvious, because the government does not want to take measures that do not happen. I'd like to offer you one single statistic. Over the last three and a half years, roughly four years, wages have increased by about 26-27 percent, while rent rates have increased by 200 percent. In housing sociology, we know precisely that the increase in property prices will be followed by rents in three to four months' time, and especially the university cities in Hungary that focus and clearly grow will become almost priceless for example. Today, two, two and a half million people in Hungary are struggling with housing poverty. There are many kinds of this. This is not just about the wall or the roof leaking, but it is about, for example, the affordability I was talking about, about legal security, who can be put out of his apartment under what conditions for example, about housing quality, about affordability and energy poverty. Please, if we take a family that really has the sword of Damocles hanging over its head, we can see that they are involved in almost all the parameters of families in the worst situation, in affordability, in energy poverty, in legal security, and in other things. So the more vulnerable a person becomes, the more complex these problems appear. Therefore, I think that if there is a need for effective intervention by the government somewhere, this is the reduction and eradication of housing poverty. That's why we support you tomorrow. Thank you.
u2019-06-11-220	Thank you. Mr Lajos Oláh, Democratic Coalition, will speak. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You say that only those who think on the basis of the Jewish-Christian values are supported by the various leading positions of the European Union. It would be time for you to think the same way, because it seems that you don't care about people living in poverty, probably because they're not on the Kubatov list, they're not going to vote, and they're not on the list, and they're not going to vote for you. Over the past period, I have made many written questions and suggestions about eviction of young children, but I have also made proposals on the issue of young people. You didn't respond to any of them. It doesn't matter to you whether you're a minor or a pensioner, if you don't vote in the same way, you don't need it. You can point out to the banks how bad they are, but my honourable fellow Members, the National Asset Manager, refused to answer how many small children were evicted by the state during that period. If they don't know, the problem is they keep secrets, that's the problem. I repeat, the state itself is an accomplice and winks in this case, doesn't care who gets on the street. I therefore ask you to support this series of articles. Resist your party and listen to their consciences and try to listen to their constituents in this matter. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-11-222	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Madam Group leader how she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Szabó Timea:]] Yeah. You have a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2019-06-11-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the support of opposition representatives. And let me say that I am very sorry that the three MPs present did not have an opinion on this, and they do not seem to be very interested in what is happening to these families with little children. Last week there was a meeting of the People's Welfare Committee, where we discussed this bill, and where there were such shameful sentences from Gabriella Selmeczi, among other things, so that the AVM group would not be heard because if a professional civil society organisation agreed to such a debate, it would reduce professional standards. But Márius Révész did his best, for example, to say that it was irresponsible to take on these loans or not to support irresponsible families who could not pay the rent. We don't know a family who took out 3 million forints of loans, not 30 plus 100, but 3 million forints of loans, it was repaid with honor every month for seven years, and after seven years they owed 8 million forints. Now, you don't want to help these people, and you call these people irresponsible. Now it would be nice to look around the country and see who we're talking about. A quarter of the country is at stake here, the fate of a quarter of the country. I ask you to show me that you are not Gabriella Selmeczi, show that you still have some humanity, show that when you talk about the year of families, you mean it. We do not need to support this proposal at the same time, to submit amendments to it, but to support its inclusion in the series so that we can at least debate this issue and find a solution to the problem of these families together, without party politics. Thank you. [[18.00]]
u2019-06-11-224	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide on the transparency of the propertyisation of public authorities and the winners of public procurement, H/6135. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, as rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, For the fourth time, the Dialogue presents a bill on the declaration of assets, an amendment based on which professional civil society organisations worked out years ago and on which there is a complete consensus between the profession and opposition parties; how, no, just the Fidesz politicians in the country are the only ones who oppose the transparency of wealth, so that Hungarian citizens have a chance to see how decision-makers and owners of large assets are growing, how they have acquired new and new assets. This original civil society organisation proposal, summarised in 12 points, aims to create real publicity, real content, real control and real punishment, since today's situation is that the content of the declarations of assets is not transparent in practice, it cannot be compared with the changes that take place year after year. Every year, the night of the declarations of assets is organized, where dedicated civil activists try to compare handwritten declarations with similar products of previous years, and we also know that there are no guarantees of real content; sometimes, as mayors, Lőrinc Mészáros forgot his billionaire company from its declaration of assets, Antal Rogán remembers that sometimes his apartment grows, and dozens of Fidesz people forget about their agricultural subsidies. There is no real control here either, so if these declarations of assets cannot be compared, then it may not be surprising that there will be no automatic procedures, no procedure for the growth of wealth, no procedure for the acquisition of wealth against those who have reason to believe that they cannot explain the increase in their declared income. But this is part of the system, washes your hands, you practice this very professionally, and from now on it is not surprising that there is no real punishment, no real penalty. In fact, Péter Polt wouldn't have much to do here, because the law itself doesn't allow a serious penalty to be imposed on a person who gives false data or intentionally sabotages the declaration of assets procedure. These should all be improved and improved, but the situation and the recognition of this dialogue this year are very few, if only political decision-makers and their families' declarations of assets become public, transparent, traceable, but it is important that the Oligarchs joined with the Fidesz regime, the political power, also make a declaration of wealth, so we added, and with a new point, the 5. § 2 would also make the property declaration procedure mandatory for the owner of any public-owned enterprise if the value of the public procurement they receive exceeds HUF 500 million or if the value of the non-refundable support they receive exceeds HUF 100 million per year. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] We had to put this amendment in because the public money is not only flowing through Viktor Orbán and their families, but also through the Lőrincs Mészáros. Of the billionaires with the largest wealth, who can fit into the hundred richest Hungarian clubs, the Fidesz regime has been linked to almost a thousand billion in wealth over the last nine years, and we have been sorry for it, since this thousand billion HUF was stolen from the Hungarian taxpayers' money. Well, these people would also be obliged to submit to the Tiborczs, the Butchers and the others, and to make this declaration public to the authorities of the state, and then to find out how, year after year, young István Tiborcz became one of the richest people in Hungary, or how Viktor Orbán's neighbor, neighbour, favourite gasman of the village, grew into a billionaire Lőrinc Mészáros. The next step is, of course, that these assets, which are thus being made public, must be taxed and confiscated from those who have obtained them illegally after judicial proceedings. This is what this proposal of the Dialogue is about here in Parliament, and this is what Gergely Christmas's proposal entitled Tiborcz Tax is about to present in detail tomorrow, the essence of which is that billion-dollar villas that we can surely find here, in our beloved capital, be taxed for the fact that those NER riders who gained fat from our money will refund at least some of the goods we stole in the form of taxes.
u2019-06-11-226	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute contributions by groups of representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2019-06-11-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The subject of today's prepared interpellation was just how transparent public procurement is in Hungary today; nothing, as the government is doing anything to ensure that public procurement is opaque and is afraid of any kind of control such as the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and they are therefore not joining it. This proposal is an integral part of transparency, since the monitoring of the financial situation of public authorities and public sector enterprises and their owners can only be effectively achieved through the broadest possible publicity. The proposal for a decision responds to the fact that during the administration of Fidesz, fabulous fortunes have been accumulated in individuals who, in an interesting way, have not been able to achieve any meaningful economic performance under previous governments, whose business results are almost exclusively due to government orders. I have repeatedly drawn attention to this phenomenon among the walls of this House, my fellow Members and myself. First of all, let us state that there is no shame in wealth, so that the result that an economic operator can show on the basis of its market performance is not to hide or hide. However, it is a shame to be enriched without real performance at the expense of the community in such a way that the services provided are overpriced compared to the actual market price, or, by abusing political influence, its competitors are unlawfully excluded. Unfortunately, we have seen a number of examples of this in recent years, so any initiative that helps the public, helps the clarity of the Hungarian people and helps to expose dishonest, public wasteful, harmful processes and individuals, and helps to expose the fidesz oligarchs. Therefore, this proposal is, of course, supported by the Jobbik Movement for Hungary. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2019-06-11-228	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2019-06-11-229	We need this presentation like a piece of bread. Dear fellow Members, I have seen that in the last 8-9 years, this government has wanted to check everything, but everything. Well, here's the opportunity, then, to extend this great scrutiny to this motion, and to cases that, I think, are very raging. This is an abnormal situation, because, moreover, the government should bring such proposals and such legislative proposals here, and I consider this to be an abnormal situation because today's news is that a legitimate criminal named György Simonka received a medal today, even though Parliament voted for it, even the Fidesz MEPs voted that he should be deprived of his immunity because he was active in disappearing 1.3 or 1.4 billion forints, 1400 million forints. Your own area, holding hands now, of course, and a gang, please, will give this dark bastard a medal. This, I think, really upsets everyone. Fellow Members! This proposal is not about anything special, and I could have put it in two words, which was in my fellow Member from Turda's statement: he will not allow the money to be stolen and he will not allow the money to be laundered. What we have seen here in recent years is that with zero forints of investment, no people have made billions of dollars. [[18.10]] It's a bigger profit anyway than begging, where there's no investment, but the profits are coming. But, please, that's the word of villainy. So don't let our Fidesz fellow Members think that this can be done indefinitely, what is going on in this country. Sooner or later, someone has to answer for this. That is why we will support this proposal.
u2019-06-11-230	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. I'll ask the author if you'd like to comment on the conversation. [[On Bence Torda:]] Looks like Bence Tordai reporting. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-11-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for your express support to the Jobbik and MSZP groups, but we also know from corridor discussions and reactions so far that we can count on the votes of the other opposition parties on the subject-series decision tomorrow. So thank you in advance for your support. I think it is our shared responsibility to build the foundations of a new system on integrity, and to do so, we need clarity about the sins of the past. So calm down, my dear Fidesz colleagues from KDNP, there will be discernment, accountability, and the wealth that has been hacked up in recent years, we will find its origin, and if it is as we think it is, then they will pay the right price for it. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-232	Thank you, Congressman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide to offer one percent of personal income tax to the trade unions in the 1996 CXXVI. T/5980. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. First, I'll give the author the floor in a five-minute time frame. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2019-06-11-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The Dialogue's proposal is that the 1 percent tax offerings can be done not only to NGOs, not only to churches, but also to trade unions, because I believe that this is a very successful institution of Hungarian democracy, which was introduced during the second half of the 1990s, during socialist governance, the system of offering 1 percent was introduced, so that is probably why it is important that we presented this proposal together with my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Korózs. I believe that this system has passed a good test, guaranteed the financial independence and security of a significant part of civil society organisations, and has also been a great help to churches that often have minimal income from other sources. Of course, we can't just leave without saying that in the Orbán regime, the churches of grace are getting quite serious money on top of that. But let's not worry about what these money is and whether it's good if it's not state stadiums, but church stadiums, let's focus on who they are who would need the financial support of citizens much more. And these trade unions, which are obviously fortunately supported in an ideal society by the contributions of their members, but we also know that after the collapse of the socialism of the state, the number of members of the trade unions collapsed, and there are now about a tenth of the number of organised workers, like the previous, or, if you like, in a regime prior to two. While the trade unions represent the interests of 4.5 million Hungarian workers, unfortunately they cannot all count on their support, it seems that they have experienced a rather serious crisis in recent decades. However, we also see that the result of this trade union crisis is not primarily required by them as a loss, but by Hungarian workers. So the great loss in this story is not that some trade union leaders have lost their livelihood, but that they are not simply able to resist the Hungarian trade unions in the absence of human and material resources. A good example of this is the 2012 Fidesz Labour Code, which was, in fact, already the slave law of employers and against which today's leaders of the Dialogue initiated a referendum. This initiative has failed, and it has also played a major role in the fact that trade unions have not been able to organise themselves for a number of reasons. Now, at the end of 2018, however, it finally seems clear that the problem has become clear, and it has become clear that this state capitalist system is built on the vulnerability of Hungarian workers, that the Orbán regime and its economic interests are pushing the Hungarian worker into a vulnerable and exploited position. And it seems that this is not some hidden agenda, it is a specific fact, and this is the basis of the competitiveness philosophy of the Orbán government. This is what Viktor Orbán and Péter Szijjártó recruit investors around the world, that Hungarian workers are cheap, that Hungarian workers are vulnerable, that Hungarian labour laws are so flexible, that employers can do anything. This is what the Hungarian opposition, the Hungarian trade union movement and the Hungarian workers wanted to resist when the movement against the slave law started last December. In this fight, too, it was very clear who represented the employees' interests in a particular case and who, ignoring their own laws, would leave the Hungarian worker on the side of the road. For example, the case of the Suzuki factory, where, despite all employers' oppression, a trade union was formed, supported by independent Hungarian media, reported that they were supported by the Hungarian opposition parties, which provided the workers with their support on the ground, and against the obvious, explicit violation of the law that the established trade union could not represent the interests of the workers, the Hungarian government and its organs did nothing. It is therefore time for trade unions to be able to stand up for the interests of the workers, if they cannot rely on the government, to count not only on their own organised workers, their own member-payers, but also on the community of the Hungarian citizens who pay taxes, recognising that the work of the trade unions is vital and that the interests of Hungarian workers are shared. I hope you support this motion. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-234	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Anita Potocskanyány Kőrösi.
u2019-06-11-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Not so long ago, in April, just two months ago, a pro-government proposal came in on a similar subject involving other beneficiaries. The religious associations were placed in the 1 percent circle. Orbán Gáspár's name was mentioned several times then, and I would like to confirm that this proposal, I believe, was to be weeped, that we have come to this point, that religious associations have also been incorporated, so that, yes, it could have been put into the beneficiaries, not in technical numbers, but in the same way as other civil society organisations. So when we saw the initiative of the Group of Dialogue, we did think it was important and we will support it, and I am telling you now. What has been shown in recent months is how much trade unions have struggled to represent workers' interests: yes, this can be a good solution. In what form, hopefully we will be able to discuss this during the debate, because by reading the bill, another, a third percentage, 1 plus 1 plus 1 percent think that it should be offered to trade unions. We certainly support this proposal, the inclusion in the series of subjects, and we trust that we can also develop professional positions in this debate. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-236	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi.
u2019-06-11-237	Dear House, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. I think that without strong workers, Hungary simply cannot be built without a strong economy and a strong economy. The proposal greatly helps to strengthen employees' interests in Hungary, and I think that is in the interests of all of us. Let us recall that following the debate of the slave law, a series of examples demonstrate how much trade unions can help workers, workers, otherwise. Let's just remember Suzuki, where they hit and kill the lobbyist, where they try to disable interest representatives by every means available, and yet, when the time for wage negotiations came, with the powerful help and cooperation of the Iron Trade Union, we managed to get workers to raise their wages. [[18.20]] But I could give you an example of BKV or many other production factories. I think that we here in Parliament have only one task and responsibility to support this proposal in order to make Hungary more competitive, to strengthen trade unions, to strengthen employee representation, because unfortunately, we have to say with government communication that Hungary will never be competitive in addition to weak employee representation. So the May Other provides full support for the proposal and, moreover, recommends that the governing parties be included in the series of articles and, by the way, vote in favour of the bill. [[A rare applause from the lines of LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-06-11-238	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy.
u2019-06-11-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Of course, the Democratic Coalition will support this proposal, and not only because workers need it, trade unions need this injection, but also because the slave law has shown that the strength of trade unions, the protesting power of trade unions, the unity of trade unions and the opportunities for trade unions to act are not in proportion to what society needs. Therefore, trade unions will be very, very much needed in how and in what way we will break down the Orbán system. I'd like to comment on another part. For example, since the NAV has completed the tax return of taxpayers, a large number of NGOs have not received the money that the taxpayer might have previously referred to them, because the NAV cannot fill in the box that provides for the 1 percent to be offered to whom. As a result, the Bátor Tábor, Daganatos.hu or Heim Pál Children's Hospital received less revenue. I would like to draw the attention of the governing parties to the fact that if they are already spending on billboards or television advertising, they are now announcing that the taxpayer who offers it to the NAV will allow the NAV to fill in the tax return instead, remember to make a provision to whom he would like to offer 1 percent of his taxes. I would like to draw the attention of the governing parties to this, but, of course, the support of trade unions is also supported by the Democratic Coalition. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-240	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2019-06-11-241	Just a few thoughts. My fellow Members have certainly fallen into this 1 percent in the last month, since we have been submitting this proposal for about that long. But I'd like to tell you one more addition. We are fortunate to be discussing next year's budget, tax laws and the underlying law. It's easy to fit. Most Members certainly do not know that it is only HUF 20 billion, which can be offered in this section of the 1 percent, in such a civil section, and that is about what the state will give back or the state will allow back to civil society organisations. It's nothing, almost nothing, in a country's budget, it's 20 billion forints. Just think, fellow Members, that you will receive four times as much of this as civil society organisations, which are guaranteed to put these funds in a good place. Secondly, the wage negotiations at the beginning of the year clearly showed that employers, capitalists who eviscerate the Hungarian worker, the oligarchs who prey on Hungarian workers can be forced to back down if there is effective action. It was such an effective act, even if they brought strikebreakers from Hankook, for example, Mongolia, to break the strike, but in the end the wage increase was only fought out by the workers there. The same, the organization was responsible for the successful trial at Audi and later at Suzuki, although I still think that the match at Suzuki is not over. I therefore think, fellow Members, that our motion should be supported. Otherwise, the government would need this most to be strong trade unions in the country, because it would certainly benefit the country. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-242	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment, although there are many options, because the factions have all spoken. [[There's no candidate.]] As rapporteur, I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai.
u2019-06-11-243	Thank you very much. I was very pleased to see that not only left-wing parties, MSZP and Dialogue consider the support of trade unions to be important naturally, but the entire opposition is in favour of this third szy 1 percent. It seems that then we agree that this neoliberal, i.e. economically far-right, authoritarian, state capitalist system should also be weakened by this instrument, and that an alternative approach should be opened to the economy, in which we may all share once again, that it is not the capital that should be served, as Fidesz does with the reduction of corporate tax and other multi-touchers and NER-oligarchs, but with the support of Hungarian workers when capital-work tensions appear in the economy. In general, it should be noted that the economy is not an end in itself, the economy is not for its own growth, it is not for profit growth, it must be in the interests of society, it must be in the interests of the people. On one side, these people are citizens, consumers and biological beings living in an environment, and on the other hand, workers and workers, and we must create laws serving them in this capacity. So I would like to ask that our dear colleagues from Fidesz, KDNP, sleep on it, consider that it is in the clear interest of Hungarian society to strengthen employee representation, and tomorrow to support the inclusion of their vote in the series, and then the introduction of 1 percent of the third trade unions that can be offered. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the lines of MSZP, Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2019-06-11-244	Thank you, Congressman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/4995 amendment of certain laws to support childbearing. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Congresswoman Timea Szabó.
u2019-06-11-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This is about supporting childbearing. I thought it was important to submit this bill because all we have heard from the Orbán government in the last nine years is that they support families. Orbán, members of the government, has been constantly ranked on what great measures have been taken to support families over the past nine years. If the measures are really so great, then we should see the results of this, that is to say, after nine years, we should see that the number of births in Hungary is increasing. But what do we see compared to that? That less than a few children are born. This year, only in the first quarter, 4.3 percent fewer children were born compared to the same period of the previous year, while, unfortunately, mortality also increased by 1.6 percent during the same period. So according to KSH data, natural weight loss increased by 10 percent in Hungary in the first quarter of this year. These figures do not show that the Orbán government would be so prominent in supporting families that the measures that have been introduced over the past nine years would have received the approval of mothers, fathers or future parents, and would have liked to have had children, because then we would have seen the result. In his final desperation, Viktor Orbán recently announced a seven-point family protection plan. There's always something to protect, right now we're protecting the families, I don't know who exactly, but he announced a seven-point family plan. What's that all about? From borrowing and distributing a car, or from a grandparents' lawn that we saw on the billboard, such a 70-year-old grandpa looked after the granddaughter, but it turned out that, let's just say, he wouldn't be subject to this grandparent child, since it only applies to active-age grandparents, those who are still working. Let's hope that 70-year-old grandpa doesn't work anymore. [[18.30]] In any case, let us consider, for example, which of these points will be the elderly person who is about to retire and who will go away for a year or two, risking that he will not be able to go back to work. Mothers are not protected by the law or are officially protected, but we know that 60 percent of the cases are being played out. Now a pre-retirement grandpa or grandma will certainly not risk leaving and then be able to go back to work in her last years before retirement. It's the same car support. More children will be born in Hungary today not because they get a six-man car, but even if they can take a ten million forint loan on a full lutribe. We know that, because it has already been said that there are more than one million families with currency loans and credible families in distress who are threatened by eviction. Now the government wants to chase these people into a loan trap again. It will cause family tragedy with these plans. Plus, this plan again doesn't help single-child families with two children, only those who might not even stop to four children, but who knows when. However, my bill contains points that would really encourage mothers, fathers, to have more children. For example, the family allowance that has not been increased since 2008 would be doubled and the age of compulsory education would be increased to 18 years. This is also very important, because families have children when they see that education is okay in Hungary if they see that health care is okay in Hungary. It's not a six-man car that makes me want to have more kids. It's just that I know there's enough pediatricians in the country. I know if there's anything wrong with my kid, I can take him to cure him. A six-man car won't be able to cure my baby. We also recommend the protection of mothers. We know that even though there is a law in place, employers cheat this legislation more than 60 percent of the time and do not fire the mother who returns from the child, but that she does not lose her job. In the same way, part-time and teleworking employment are included for mothers so that they can work alongside the child. In other words, broadening children's rights; not only about children's obligations, but also about their rights. I do not think that there is a need to agree on every point in this proposal, but to include it in a series of subjects in order to have something to argue about. We do not lure these families into a trap of credit, but we can give them real support so that children can actually be born in Hungary! Thank you.
u2019-06-11-246	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocskasi in two minutes.
u2019-06-11-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the same way I would like to join you now, and say that the Jobbik Group will, of course, support the inclusion of the proposal in this series. We support it, because my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, has himself tabled amendments to this family protection action plan, including the car purchase you mentioned, we would extend this to used cars. In addition, I apologize for the fact that my heart is drawing home to the institution of family tax relief, and in this connection we also recommended that the family allowance increase at least by the rate of inflation each year. Because we see that while the government is yearning for three or four and five children, until the first child is born, there is no need to talk about it. The family tax reduction itself shows that it reached HUF 40,000 in 2019, so it is possible to point out that in a few years the amount of family tax breaks has doubled in the case of families with two children, but now it appears from the SAY law that otherwise it is stuck, and they want to keep it at HUF 40,000. It is also proposed to propose at least an increase in the family allowance with inflation. So we are confident that, at least for the duration of the debate, the political parties will support the inclusion of this series. The Jobbik will do that. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-248	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn.
u2019-06-11-249	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last more than an hour, I've had a little bit of a panic that there won't be any pro-government fellows left in this room. [[To Sándor Kovács:]] But fortunately, you stayed inside. And thank you so much for listening, because you're not talking to an empty house. After all, sometimes the opposition has to be heard about these strange and forced legislative proposals. The LMP faction will support all legislative proposals, their inclusion in the series of articles, and would also like to debate them in Parliament, which will help to support and protect families' true support and prosperity. For example, flexible working hours, mentioned by Szabó Timea. I'd love to. I have a mother of six who raises her six children on her own, so she has fulfilled the government's demands, and I mean she has overdone it, and poor, if her children are sick, she can't find anyone, because she doesn't make enough money to pay a babysitter, and employers can't tolerate it. The youngest child is in kindergarten. I ask what he should do if the employer is not legally obliged to tolerate his absence. Well, then, you'll be unemployed again very soon, won't you? Moreover, as a full - time mother, there is so little income that she can receive that it is not a solution either, since the family allowance has not been increased for more than ten years, even though its increase would be burning. Especially in the case of single parents, because this difference in support is very small to put it mildly. So the increase in the family allowance, like the increase in the current minimum retirement pension, which I always say, would be necessary, since this is the basis for a lot of support. But I've exceeded my time. Thank you. [[Pointing to the empty benches:]] Once again, I thank the State Secretarys for coming and listening. Oh, no. Thank you for the floor. [[Delight and applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-06-11-250	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2019-06-11-251	Thank you very much. I am speaking with the hope that I know that our fellow Member Sándor Kovács would support these motions in his soul, but that faction discipline does not allow him to support these horrors that are brought here to the Parliament. Think about it, my fellow Members must have looked at the general justification as well as the detailed justification, including the prohibition of discrimination against family models. Oh, my God, what do these congressmen think? Or that is what they think in their motion, so that the state can provide homes and housing for all families. It's not just for the privileged, it's for every family. Such horrors are written in order for parents with small children to enjoy a high level of labour protection. My fellow Member, who spoke before me, mentioned the six-year-old mother, who simply dares not leave her work even if she is seriously ill. By the way, I know the situation, the youngest kid in kindergarten, and the biggest one in school. Think about it. And he's forced to raise his children on his own. And these opposition representatives make such a suggestion in the Parliament that they want special labour protection for these mothers. In addition, they are described in Article 7. Section 2 is that support for those in need and the creation of social security. You know, it's about not only luxurious wives being able to buy a seven-man SUV with state support for 10 million forints. Goddamn it! Well, what a world this is. Think about it. Do you understand? You know what I mean? That the mother of three who raises her child alone doesn't get any support, or that mother of six who is forced to raise her children alone doesn't get any support who cuts out the seven and a half million forints, and gets two and a half million forints for her. They will then submit another law to the Parliament, which says that this is not a personal income tax income that the state gives it. Well, that's why we should support this proposal, seriously. That's what we're gonna do tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-252	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy.
u2019-06-11-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I won't be a big surprise: the Democratic Coalition will support this series of articles. I'd like to add another addition to the fact that in order for more children to be born, let's say, we wouldn't have to close the emergency room at the Honvéd Hospital. That would require a little more pediatrics. For example, vaccinations should be given to all sick children. There are sick children who suffer from spinal atrophy, and the government saves a few billion so that some of them will die because not everyone will get it. If you imagine a country like this, then this is something the Democratic Coalition objects to. [[18.40]] But in the longer term, family protection would also include raising the education limit from 16 to 18. We should open universities and not, for example, collect these hundreds of thousands of dollars and then, in the case of Corvinus, the multimillion HUF tuition fee, and, for example, solve the question of building apartments for young people who want to start a family and have children; this would all help. But it would also have helped if, for example, a single pen stroke hadn't abolished the housing savings system, because for years, young people had raised their money to buy an apartment or a room more, if they had renovated an apartment or furnished an apartment, but you had taken this opportunity away from them. This is an outrage! What the Fidesz government is doing isn't family politics, it's looting families. They help the wealthy and destroy the poorer and the middle class. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-06-11-254	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask Szabó Timea if he'd like to answer as his author. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-06-11-255	Thank you, Mr President, very briefly. Thank you very much for the support of opposition parties. Here, I would point out what has already been said by a fellow Member: it is very important that we are not talking today in Hungary about the birth of the third and fourth children, but about the birth of the first and second children, because the problems are already here. It's an amazing loss of population. In a few years or decades, we will be half as many people here in Hungary as we are now. So it would be good if the Fidesz people really came to their senses, and instead of giving themselves billionaire subsidies, they really tried to see what they could do to help Hungarian families, because they could better encourage future parents or current parents to have more children. With the current measures, this will not work, and once again without party political affiliation, it is in all our interests to change this problem. Thank you.
u2019-06-11-256	Thank you, Congresswoman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/4778, T/4778, amendment of certain laws necessary for the recognition of home care as work. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár in a five-minute time frame.
u2019-06-11-257	Thank you for the floor. The fact is that last year there was a civilian movement in connection with the settlement of the home care fee, and this civilian movement achieved a semi-stiker with political support, which was that the child's home care fee was raised by the government to HUF 100,000 instead of HUF 58 thousand. It was the right move, it was a step that should have been taken a while ago. There are two problems. One is that a number of civil society organisations, myself and other opposition politicians have expressed criticism about increasing this home care fee, which was mainly about excluding children with autism or other disabilities from this increased fee. At that time, the Ministry of Human Resources said that this was a political hysterical act, and six months later, at least this happened during the night, it was announced that they would change the point system on which the children's home care fee would be assessed. At the same time, the changes to the care fee demanded by civil society organisations and the persons concerned were not fully met. The most important problem is that the government only raised the home care fee for home care workers for their children. This means that everyone who does not raise their child and this significant majority of those who receive a home care fee will continue to receive 58 or 38 thousand forints. The fact that 58 thousand forints are enough, most of the time Fidesz MEPs say it in various interviews, which also shows that they do not necessarily spend a significant part of their time in Hungary. But the fact is that from 58,000 forints they cannot buy diapers for their elderly, demented relatives, let alone take them to any development or, let us say, to any occupation delaying the onset of Alzheimer's disease, but not enough to make up for the time for which this award was originally created, which means losing working time, because this philosophical point of my proposal is home care. If not done at home with your parents, spouse, brother, then this work is done by people paid through the social sector, otherwise very poorly paid during working hours. Moreover, as long as you do this caring job at home, you can't take part in the labour market and so you can't earn a living. It is the kind of work, it is the kind of caring work that provides the basis for people, in most cases men, to go to the primary labour market and work on the market. It's that kind of work. Because of these people, who are in large part women who are at home and care for the mother-in-law, mother-in-law, brother and others, the other spouse, the child or someone can go and participate in the labour market. Still, this is the job we're not paying for. I go on: there are completely incomprehensible things in the home care legislation. That someone who is a legal guardian of a child does not receive the home care fee, but that the EMMI cannot explain it either. They describe in 65,000 characters that lorem ipsum, and this is often, but they can't tell why they're making a difference between the guardian and the parent here. I go on: the fact that the grandparents cannot go to a child-care fee and receive a pension at the same time, and I think that penny money at budgetary level does not exceed HUF 5 billion, which is completely incomprehensible. So here are tens of thousands of Hungarians who do a job in 0-24 hours, no free time, no vacation, no change, no other shift, get 58 thousand forints. Here, if you feel pressure, Secretary of State Rétvári, because you have to listen 27 times a day, you will announce a 10 percent increase, which is not enough for anything, because we all know what 10 percent of 58,000 forints is. These people don't get the minimum they deserve for the work they do, and that would be the minimum wage. We agreed with the government that the principle of gradualness can be enforced, and the first thing they can do with the child's home care fee is to reach the minimum wage level of 100 thousand forints and then 2022, it was right, but they cannot explain why it is not the case for people who care for their non-childs, so other relatives at home, nor can they explain why it is necessary to exclude people from their home care fees with different, completely incomprehensible, administrative nonsense. [[To Sándor Kovács:]] I would ask the one-eyed Fidesz Member who participated in this debate to consider how many people live in his district who earn 38 and 58 thousand forints for a job that deserves the appreciation of all of us. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-258	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi.
u2019-06-11-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is infinitely sad when we talk about the home care fee here in Parliament, and we get it back from State Secretarys: but there was the opportunity, why didn't you vote in December? Why didn't the Jobbik faction vote for you then? At the time, there was another situation, then we had to raise our voice against the bad legislation that is taking place here in the Hungarian Parliament. Of course, we support the institution of the home care fee, the raising of the home care fee and the introduction as a working relationship, employment or other employment relationship. It is shameful for the government to point back to 12 December and say so aloud. Surely there is no such person in his family; there are no children whose parents are currently excluded from this support; they certainly do not have relatives who are not children, but, as has been said, fathers, mothers, grandparents, brothers and sisters, but not children. I am extremely disappointed that these family members are excluded from this institution by the government when they can help them, when they can support that if they are in such a terrible situation, their lives are filled with such distress, at least financially appreciate the tireless work they do to their relatives. No question, the Jobbik Group will support the inclusion in the series. Thank you very much. [[18.50]]
u2019-06-11-260	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2019-06-11-261	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is extremely important that we talk about this problem. The bill, the proposal for a resolution that has now come before this House, is very important. I, too, would call it one of my fellow members of government, who is here, and I understand that it may have something to do with this topic, because you graduated from the ELTE as an organic major, that I think it is an important thing that, following the joint work of civilians, stakeholders and politicians and parties, the government has taken certain steps, important steps in the matter, but it is not a shame at all that these things need to be supplemented in order for this to be realistic, to be applicable, to be supplemented. I need your help with that. We have met a lot of people on this subject, and a lot of people have found out in the first place that the measures have caused tension among them, because those who care for their children at home and receive such support are very happy with the increase, but they are often in contact with those who care for their brothers, parents, others at home, and that has caused tension among them. More people have been looking for us by caring for other family members, even more family members, and it is simply not enough for 50,000 forints, it is not enough for anything, so we must increase this support to them in any way. I think it's a total social issue, there's a lot of amazing life situations, a lot of people coming home from the hospital, and family members are willing to spend the rest of their lives in loving care and caring for their family, really taking on a sacrifice that I think people really are ready to take on for their family, hopefully, at any time, but the state has to give them all the help they need. There are a lot of temporary life situations. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] When, for many months or months, a person does not receive any care, and he does not know the family member as safely as he does at home, either at the health institution or elsewhere. So I'm asking you very much to help me get this into a series of subjects, and let's discuss this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-262	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy.
u2019-06-11-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, the Democratic Coalition will also support this proposal, including inclusion in the series of subjects. We also consider it particularly important to deal with the problems of home care workers, which is why we have always been involved in protests at Kossuth Square when there is a proposal to be submitted to this House. If I can speak here now within the walls of this House, I would also like to thank you for the sacrifice that home care workers are doing, a truly fantastic human achievement that they are doing. I would also like to add that if Fidesz claims and constantly communicates that everything in this country is already so fantastic and everything is going so well, and it has never been so good for Hungary in life, then why can't half the price of a stadium be added to this. With the price of half a stadium, this problem could be solved, so let's think about it. It would cost no more, an important injustice could be remedied, and we could be fair, fair to those who do this heroic work. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-264	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2019-06-11-265	Dear House, There was a number here in the Hungarian media recently, I think there was almost no portal three weeks ago that didn't take over. In this regard, the institution collecting the relevant statistical data stated that it had to be pryed out with public data claims that some 34 288 people were waiting for placement in a social institution. It turned out that nearly half of them would never be accommodated, because in the meantime, they would die. The guy who used to know me, he knows that I've been looking into things, and I have a pretty good friendship with numbers. I have looked at how the seats in the various institutions have evolved in the last year: in the home of psychiatric patients, the seats in the home of the disabled have decreased radically in the last year; in the institution of addicts the seats have decreased and hold on, in the homeless care the seats have fallen radically, despite the fact that in the autumn of last year the government has done what it has done and said that everyone can be placed and everyone can have a roof over their heads. By the way, there have not been so many homeless people on the streets of Budapest in the last decade as there have been; so many homeless people have not lived on public transport, these poor people travel from terminal to terminal, because there is no shelter above their heads; they have also destroyed the social work on the street. In addition, as I said, there is no institutional space because they are building the seats down. That is why we should support the LMP's motion, which is what we will do tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-266	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Turdai.
u2019-06-11-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Dialogue will also support the LMP's motion, all the more so, because in the matter of home care, 33,000 of the 45,000 families concerned were not resolved by Fidesz. It's so disappointing that I really don't feel like using strong words to use the tactics of sharing and conquering these people in this situation. That's all they use, because they have no real talent, no courage, no humanity, I don't know. I would also like to thank not only those who are doing this very difficult work, but also those civil society organisations, groups and movements who have kept this matter on the agenda: Let's move to make a move! The Sound, the CSEVE Group, and here we really must not go, exceptionally, alongside the persistent and effective work of opposition representatives, thinking primarily of our fellow Member Ungár. So for your part, the Dialogue will, of course, support the initiative on tomorrow's vote as well. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-268	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask Congressman Péter Ungár to comment on the conversation. [[On the sign of Péter Ungár:]] It says yes.
u2019-06-11-269	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank all the factions for their support. Here, my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, asked me to inform him about something else, who has graduated from Gusztáv Bárczi, that for some reason, even in the children's home-care law, there is a reason that if someone has more children, such as twins, where there is a disability in both cases many times because of genetic disorders, he receives a sum, so he does not receive the two. The argument put forward by the EMMI was that it would not receive the two amounts because it had already received one because it had fallen out of the labour market, so it did not need another one. Now, there is no immeasurable philosophical basic education that two children have to pay for development education twice, take it twice, buy material twice or buy a device, so the cost is higher than two children. I missed that last time. To sum up, I would like to say that, of course, the state, and we do not have such expectations, will never be able to completely replace the loss of the labour market, but it does not have to be. We need these people to feel that we appreciate what they are doing, that we acknowledge that this is a job, and if the government considers itself to be a Christian-social government, then on the basis of the welfare state as the greatest Christian social invention ever, we tell these people, with financial respect, that what they are doing is just as valuable a job as someone on the primary labour market. That's what this is about. Yes, we are talking about forints and people's daily livelihoods, but more about what country we want to live in, about living in a country where we recognise the work of those who do caring work, whether it is at home or in a state institution. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-270	Thank you, Congressman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the amendments to the law relating to public parking, T/6027. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi in a five-minute time frame. [[19.00]]
u2019-06-11-271	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal, which lies before you, is about paying off a debt that is now 20 years old, primarily to the taxing citizens of Budapest. 'Cause what's this about? It is about the fact that the Budapest parking system has been designed by the Centre parking pumping public money and making it private money for many years, and then, once again, when communication and reality split up, Fidesz began to solve this issue, then the employees of the same company would immediately appear as subcontractors, and now again, in a situation where much can be said about the municipal financing system, but not that they are generous. In this connection, practically ten billion forints per year are lost by district municipalities, and István Tarlós, the mayor of Budapest, said that even Prime Minister Viktor Orbán could not promise him the solution to this. Mr Prime Minister, the one-man Fidesz fraction sitting across from me is the solution right in front of us. István Tarlós told us that the solution is, and in this he is absolutely right, that we take the parking operation out of the mandatory tasks of the districts and give it to the capital. This bill, which lies in front of us, is about not 14 companies doing the parking operation, but one. So they can't punish you for falling into different parking zones on the right and left of Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Road. Moreover, since we are talking about a company or an operator, to be quite precise, we will also achieve that these revenues will be included transparently in the system, in a manner that the electorate can follow, and not least the districts will not suffer any losses, as we propose that this profit margin be distributed back to the districts in a manner similar to the business tax. True, in this case, those groups involved in the parking mafia do not have access to these funds. It's not just Zugló, it's Ferencváros, XI. district, and I could tell you a long list of districts where tax dollars and parking money are virtually lost by sacks. I think you need to show yourself, it's not optional that you can, you have to show that you're not in the parking mafia's pocket, that yes, you can, you can, you dare to take action against the parking mafia. But what we need to do first is to put this bill in a series of articles, which, by the way, is again a completely human thing, which is about not having to pay a parking fee within 500 meters of medical institutions or hospitals. I think that these two items beautifully show that it is necessary and where to touch the parking system. Dániel Ács, the outstanding journalist of 444, presented a wonderful series of videos on how and where parking money disappears. If anyone would answer that to me, that online parking machines would solve this issue, I'm afraid I'm going to have to tell them that it's not true. Because, of course, because of the black vending machines, part of the revenue disappears, but there are subcontractors who have bypassed the law on municipalities and are sub-contracting the money out of the parking system. I think that this must end once and for all. I ask my fellow opposition Members, as well as my fellow pro-government Members, to support this bill, because once we show that this country is not run by the Mafia, but there is a legislation here that is suitable and capable of doing it. I ask your kind support for this. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-272	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs. [[Sándor Kovács is leaving the Chamber. Interventions from opposition parties, including Antal Csárdi: I did not want to scare him away. Sándor Kovács: So far I have a mandate. Defiance.]]
u2019-06-11-273	I was gonna start by saying there's only one guy on his feet in the country. [[Defiance. Sándor Kovács, going back to the Chamber: I will come back to listen to that.]] It's a long poem... [[Sándor Kovács is leaving the Chamber.]] We will, of course, support the presentation in the course of tomorrow. Thank you.
u2019-06-11-274	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2019-06-11-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the part of the bill relating to parking charges within 500 metres of hospitals and health institutions. We have encountered an amazing number of indications that when someone's family member was taken to a medical facility, after they had completed the treatment, the emergency care, they were then faced with a fine waiting for them on the vehicle, which, by the way, is unfairly expensive and affects people in an already very sensitive life situation. It is therefore proposed that parking in the 500 m area of health institutions should be free of charge, so that health records and final reports can be presented to demonstrate that someone has arrived for an indeterminate examination, treatment or emergency care. I think this would be a much more equitable situation than the one we have now. I would like to point out that the obligation to provide territorial care in health has changed very, very dramatically. There are several hospitals in Budapest, for example, where there are patients from tens of miles away, and otherwise in the counties. Many times, a person takes his spouse, his child, in a motor vehicle, by going in with him, as a rule, so he does not have the opportunity to leave the family member at the hospital door, who may be in a state to wait for him, and until then, someone will park somewhere where he might be able to stop free of charge. There is no time for this, and I think there are very unfair situations by punishing people who are coming to health care. Our proposal would remedy this problem, so please support this proposal.
u2019-06-11-276	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy.
u2019-06-11-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All I'd like to say is that it's an old tooth that needs to be pulled out. So don't put yourself in a position where you have to turn your head if you see party dogs, if you find yourself in a position where it depends on any other position, decision, support or other. All of this, this whole story, must be removed from the clutches of the parties. If health care has already been found on this issue, I would also like to add that it is also a serious problem for general practitioners. He arrives at the patient, orbits, orbits, finds a parking spot with great difficulty, and instead of running up to the patient, he's still running around the corner, which code should be inserted into his phone. I think it should also be included in the package that these GPs can clearly prove with the proper car sticker or behind the windshield that this should not be the most important thing for them in such a situation, but that it is indeed the care of the patient and that they can treat the patient as soon as possible. Thank you very much. We will support this proposal.
u2019-06-11-278	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai.
u2019-06-11-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Dialogue will wholeheartedly support the inclusion of this bill. By the way, I'm a great friend of the various rhetorical tools, but in this case, the rhetorical question may have been a little bit strong, as a sign that the parking mafia would pocket the Fidesz. He doesn't put it in his pocket, because the Fidesz is the parking mafia, so it's possible to put yourself in his own pocket, but it's the least threatening. What threatens us is the chain from Viktor Orbán to the last Fidesz representative in the district, part of which is István Tarlós, part of which is András Kupper and the whole complex network, who travel to make parking in Budapest one of the foundations of their own economic hinterland. [[19.10]] Of course, the elimination of this is in our common interest, and that is exactly what we have initiated, so as to have a unified capital competence, and to support this process, the transparency and fairness of the parking system here in Parliament, by means of legislation. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-280	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2019-06-11-281	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It also shows that there are some things we agree on, some we don't agree on, because one thing is for sure, the parking mafia lives and exists in Budapest. But it must be stated that this system was developed jointly by the left and the Fidesz. He ran it together, and some private companies, taking advantage of their old political relationships, still operate it today. It's a very greasy bite. To give you just examples, in one of the districts, when one of the Fidesz potentates was appointed to clean up and supervise there, his first job was to get the parking company and to run the parking. I don't know how to tell Mr. Csárdi the district where this happened. This parking fee is today a tribute in the capital. In addition, a tribute that is loosely accounted for, for we have seen the examples when they take the change out into sacks and don't show up for long months if the money is missing. What kind of account could that be? Or another district, I don't know why I keep thinking about the district where there's no serial number on the parking tickets. How do they account for these money there? It's an absolutely loose accounting thing, and I'm afraid you'll have to mention that Fidesz, MSZP parking thing the mayor's watching helplessly to this day, and there's nothing he can do with it. This guy keeps pouring private pockets, and the motorists don't get anything for it. This mafia needs to be eliminated, and we believe that the system of paying parking should be rethinked, so that it can work transparently and with the benefits of car society. Therefore, I would like to emphasise the inclusion in the series of subjects, and then we would like to have a professional debate here in front of the House on how we can make the most of this parking system. I hope that we will have the opportunity, although this great silence coming from the fidesz benches does not indicate this at the moment, because it is not the silence of attention, but the silence of carelessness, that they are not in the House. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-11-282	Thank you, Congressman. It also explains the silence, of course. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment. I don't see a candidate... oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, yes, I almost missed the rejoinder. You have the floor, Congressman Csárdi.
u2019-06-11-283	Thank you very much. As my colleague Szilágyi finished, the great silence is talkative. Yeah, well, we don't have to say our words back home until the living room, unfortunately, but I think the moment has come when we have to stop that waste of public money once and for all, the public money shoveling, which, by the way, has characterized parking operation for many decades. Secondly, I think that once and for all that the processes experienced in practice must be stopped, that a pregnant mother cannot go to childbirth without a parking ticket being added to the car carrying her, or that there is no way to get to emergency care without a Santa pack waiting for the owner who has to go back to his car with his hand tied. I think that a system can work for citizens, it can work for us, and I think that this is clearly easily achieved to achieve it. There is good evidence that in this case, transparency, economics... Instead of ten companies, only one would operate, with all its costs, i.e. in an efficient, transparent system, accountable and predictable way for parking cars. It's more human, because it wouldn't be collecting income on sick people and those who are otherwise in an emergency situation. I think that it only requires intent, and as I began, I will conclude: I was not the first, and not the May Other Politics was the first, who said that this was the solution. The first to take a stand on this issue and said that the capital must do this task was István Tarlós, the mayor of Budapest. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-284	Thank you, Congressman. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Group of the LMP has proposed that the Parliament decide on stopping and related tasks in the event of an emergency change in the atmosphere, H/6028. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee for Sustainable Development. First, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck in a five-minute time frame.
u2019-06-11-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that these crowded benches here tell us everything about how the government, the majority of governments, Fidesz-KDNP deal with climate change. I'm afraid it'll be easier for me to convince the empty benches here that we are really talking about the most pressing issue in today's world than the majority of governments. Last week, the Committee on Sustainable Development had on the agenda a proposal for a decision to identify and decide on the climate crisis presented by the LMP faction. In fact, the majority of the government, the majority of the governments present, have put forward two main arguments as to why they do not support this proposal for a decision. As one of them, Vice-President Béla Turi-Kovács said that this proposal for a resolution is, in fact, a campaign, and it was actually born because of the elections to the European Parliament. This argument by Béla Turi-Kovács, Vice-President, I think that I could immediately deny this proposal for a resolution, but it had nothing to do with the European Parliament campaign. It had nothing to do with it because anyone who followed climate change issues a little bit, and what different governments, either at global or European level, did know that not so long ago the British Parliament and then the Irish Parliament adopted a resolution on the announcement of a climate crisis. Technically, this proposal for a resolution of the LMP did nothing but follow this line and made the third suggestion that the Hungarian Parliament should accept such a proposal for a resolution. The other argument was Béla Turi-Kovács, and it is important to know that it is not his position, but the Fidesz fraction that it is not even possible to know how much human activity is involved in climate change. That means that if there's little, you really don't have to do anything, you can just sit back and you'll get what you want. That tells me everything. So, basically, the Committee on Sustainable Development voted against this. It is simply shocking to me, because this committee should at least be aware of the processes that are taking place in the area of climate change. Since 2015, when the Paris Climate Summit was held in 2015, it was decided to keep the temperature rise within 2 degrees Celsius and to make voluntary commitments by governments to reduce their CO2 emissions. Subsequently, governments submitted proposals, which were summarised last year before the Katowice Climate Summit. It is shocking that the result is that what governments have thus undertaken keeps the temperature rise above 3 degrees Celsius, even though before the Katowice summit, the IPCC this UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change published a report that was practically a situational survey based on the work of thousands of scientists and has formulated tasks. [[19.20]] This report painted a very, very dark picture and said that it has 10-12 years for humanity, governments and policies to radically change their economic policy, their social policy, because civilization is in danger and threatened. And we also need to know that government people have said this, not publicly, but behind the screens, that this report was already cosmetic. So because of all this, we think it is very important that the Parliament accepts this. In this proposal for a decision, we propose the adoption of a climate law this year to prepare the country's decarbonisation roadmap and not to devote EU and domestic resources to programmes that do not serve to curb climate change. But I think the majority of the government doesn't understand any of this. But if you no longer understand the opposition's proposals, you could at least understand the regular speeches of the President of the Republic, to whom at least a group of students listen, and students go out into the street and organise a climate procession. But the Prime Minister says that he is there for János Áder if nothing happens in the government. I would ask my fellow Members, the majority of governments and the opposition to support our proposal for a resolution. Thank you.
u2019-06-11-286	Thank you, Congresswoman. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2019-06-11-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This picture really perfectly describes not only today's Hungarian parliamentary states and the parliamentary debate culture on the part of the government, but also its attitude towards climate change, global warming and environmental protection. The fact that none of the members of the Government are present in the Chamber either in the leading presidential benches or in the benches is completely unprecedented, since it would obviously be part of the normal functioning of Parliament, I think, naively, in a normal democracy, so that it can be debated with those who make up the laws. In this case, at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, Mr Böröcz said that the government is doing something about climate change, but not with these instruments, and that they will resolve it in a different way, because they will present such proposals. Well, we see how much the government is doing to combat climate change when the foreign minister says that the interest of the automotive industry is more important than CO2 emissions, when environmental protection institutions, government and non-governmental institutions cease to exist, and those who want to do something about climate change want to do something so that future generations can live in normal living conditions. This is not a cliché or an opportunity for decades, but it is a reality here today. Well, we can see that after a rainy period, when most of the annual precipitation fell at the same time in a few days or a few weeks, there is now a period in Canicula that is predicted for several weeks, for weeks, when it strikes the opposite, and heat waves will torture the population and the sensitive ones. This is, of course, just the tip of the iceberg, because what awaits us is something quite shocking according to the forecasts of scientists and climate change researchers. So we should wake up, and especially the government should wake up and finally do something, or the government that doesn't act and doesn't take these steps for our children and grandchildren, people should just be distracted. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-288	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2019-06-11-289	Thank you very much. In addition to supporting the resolution proposal, I would like to continue with what our better fellow Member, Lajos Kepli, said: they clearly have no idea what we are looking at here. I don't want to get involved in climate research, but a lot of people here know I'm a sociologist. And if we ask only the question that we understand, this will happen, we will replace the knowledge that we have with the probability matrix, it is likely that it will have such and such an impact on the transformation of societies. How a society will be organised here, how community relations will be transformed, how the social and health care system will develop as a result, so that we can provide security to our fellow citizens that will be able to live this world in a few decades' time, knocking on the door here! No one talks about how these steps should be done in urbanism, urban planning. How we will air out, air our cities, how we can green our environment, so that for example there are no such drastic changes in society's life, such as temperature growth, hundreds of thousands of people die just because society is not prepared to deal with this problem. We're supposed to be talking about these, but there's no one to talk to, because the only guy who's ever held the fort is out of here. I'm so sorry. I repeat, of course, that we will support the proposal for a resolution tomorrow.
u2019-06-11-290	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2019-06-11-291	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Members have said before, climate change has literally kicked the door at us. There are many signs of this. Despite some rainy periods, we experience the amazing drought trend, so a constant dehydration, desertification, and a daily experience of these changes in our lives. And while the pro-government representatives are not here, I would like to express my hope that they may be watching online mediation or at least read the minutes afterwards, just because I would draw attention to an aspect of climate change that they are at least interested in at the level of words, and this is nothing more than migration. Because it is important to know that climate change is one of the main root causes of migration at present and in the future. That is why action must be taken immediately against climate change. And although we know that the pro-government people mostly deal with this extremely serious issue at propaganda level, this is why I would recommend that they accept this proposal. It is not a question of taking action against illegal migration, nor that immigration policy must remain a national competence. Moreover, the external borders of the European Union must be protected, and Hungary's borders must also be protected. But what I would like to say is that, in addition to the ongoing conflict of war, in addition to the fact that pollution is getting worse, climate change is getting more intense, crowds can start with desertification, conflicts, amazing heat waves, disasters that will not be stopped by an eye fence at the southern border. So if we want to combat the migration crisis in substance, if we want to ensure that everyone can thrive in their homeland and that is what the LMP wants to ensure, then we must take action to combat climate change. That is why I am asking you to support this proposal. Thank you.
u2019-06-11-292	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy.
u2019-06-11-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to add so much to the speakers before me that the Fidesz Members are not here, but I tell them, if nothing else, to the record, that they should not believe Donald Trump, who said how good it is to melt the North Pole, because then he sees economic opportunities in this. Then when the Statue of Liberty only shows the torch, you'll think it wasn't such a good idea. This government does not care about environmental protection and does not care about anything that is green policy. Instead of the trees, it fills cities, streets, squares, trees, kills reeds at Lake Balaton, in the nature reserve, so that fidesz oligarchs build houses there, and I can list them for a long time. This is completely unacceptable to the Democratic Coalition. Climate change needs to be taken care of. I would also like to add on this matter that the Democratic Coalition, in its increased responsibility to the European Parliament, will give priority to the issue of green policy in Brussels. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-294	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Turdai.
u2019-06-11-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The Dialogue not only supports the publication of the climate crisis and the negotiation of the bill on this, but we have already done half the government's work, because we know that Fidesz cannot be expected if not only the future of our grandchildren and children is at stake, but our tomorrow. If a responsible future-conscious policy should be pursued, the government of Viktor Orbán will fail. Compared to this, with the leadership of Benedek Jávor, we developed an energy road plan, which is perhaps one of the most important policy documents of climate change. Our next goal is not only to make proposals supported by the opposition here in Parliament, but to take over the leadership of Budapest and to show that a green mayor can also green a big city. [[19.30]] For it is precisely the city and its inhabitants who are the most vulnerable to climate change, where the lives of the elderly and the sick will first be claimed by heat waves that simply appear much more intensely in this concrete jungle. So we have a lot of work to do in the country, we have a lot of work to do in Budapest to slow down and, if possible, reverse climate change, and, on the other hand, to take the most important, fundamental steps in climate change adaptation, which simply allow us to live on this planet in ten years' time, in this country, in these cities.
u2019-06-11-296	Thank you, Congressman. All the factions have spoken, so I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet.
u2019-06-11-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank my fellow opposition Members for their supporting proposal, thank you very much, but I would also like to ask my fellow Members to bring this issue to Parliament in the coming period, if possible, as many as possible, as many as possible, so that it can be discussed, in case this issue will reach the ears of the pro-government representatives. I would like to add that it seems that these processes are also accelerating on the political map. Not all governments carry out such a procrastination policy and so negative a policy on climate change. I can take the German federal government as an example, which we know of, of course, that the automotive lobby has a strong impact on it, yet the German government has been able to do with the processes that climate change has exploded in a chain reaction and failed to take the right steps, and that it is growing, so people are increasingly recognizing this problem, going out on the street and protesting and asking politicians, in this context they have created a climate cabinet, and this climate cabinet has started a very strict, hard work, and this year it is very likely that the German federal government will also have a climate law. Or, for example, in a different context, I can say that the IPU, the Interparlamental Union, has also started to pay particular attention to climate change issues, for example, now the working group of the, peace and democracy, is starting to work on a climate change and migration project, because it is very serious for many countries in different parts of the world. So I ask that, yes, we take this seriously, we bring the problem here ourselves, in case sooner or later it will reach the majority of the government that there is trouble, action must be taken. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-11-298	Thank you, Congresswoman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. After all, no one came forward to speak after the agenda, so I thank you for your work, and we will resume the meeting tomorrow at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
