u2019-04-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 13th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and György Szilágyi will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Speaking before the agenda, Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group has applied for a speech:. What about the people who have changed their ability to work? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-02-1	Good morning, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, At midnight the day before yesterday, the deadline set by the Constitutional Court for the review of the case of invalids and the submission of an appeal expired. Yesterday, in the interpellation and in the hour of immediate questioning, many of us would have been interested in this deadline, and we would have been happy to have discussed these people in the last few weeks, either in the Commission's work or in the plenary session. What's this about? It is about the fact that, in the context of the incomes of the past, there is no statement that occurred after 1 January 2012: the income of the beneficiaries has decreased significantly, their living conditions have deteriorated significantly, their health and mental status has not improved, and yet, many times in the so-called percentage statement, these people have been classified significantly worse than they had before. As I mentioned, the previous care was not in a thank-you relationship with the newly established care. Please allow me to quote a very short file. There's a government portal here that says that there was someone who years ago was found to have a 50 percent health impairment, and according to the new review, it improved to 43 percent. On this basis, the amount of invalidity benefits has been drastically deducted, causing a very serious financial problem for many. In other cases, from 122 thousand forints a month, a disabled person fell below 30 thousand forints after the review, and in 2012 more than 10 percent of the subjects were completely out of the system. According to the 2016 analysis of KSH, between 2011 and 2016, the number of persons receiving disability, rehabilitation or other health damage benefits decreased by 180 thousand. Now, let's see what we're talking about. It is a question of not taking into account the amount of the previous benefit, of not taking into account the time spent in the insurance relationship and of not taking into account the amount of the contribution; it is well known that this had to be paid in proportion to the taxable income. It is true that since 2012, there has been benefits for disabled people, rehabilitation and disability care, but there is no constitutional guarantee, unlike the one behind the disability pension. The level of care in the current care is not dependent on service time and, unfortunately, it is hardly dependent on the action that has been made. At the same time, I would like to note that there is hope, because yesterday afternoon, to be more precise: in the evening, Chancellor Gergely Gulyás referred to the fact that, for half a sentence, the proposal for a parliamentary resolution submitted by the MSZP will be taken into account in the creation of the new legislation. If the government really takes this into account, takes seriously its obligations and takes into account the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court, then we hope that these people will be reinstated in their original legal status and will be restored to the forms of supply that they had previously received, such as the travel discount or entitlement to public health care. I hope that they will take into account the difference in care, along with interest rates, and pay people whose rights have been violated, and I hope that they will compensate these people, because this is not just about getting fewer benefits, but a lot of people have died in the meantime, and the compensation will extend to heirs. It is a prose question, but such things should be addressed in this new legislation, who can be considered rehabilitated, because according to the current rules, it is ad hoc to determine whether someone is rehabilitated or unrehabilitated, it should be defined when he can go to work, to define what kind of care he will be entitled to who cannot be considered, say, rehabilitated, even though he has gone through such a rehabilitation torture. From now on, I think there are many open questions: we opposition representatives are sure to be partners in the adoption of new legislation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-04-02-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-02-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you have said, Congressman, we have talked about this issue three times yesterday, and I believe that much has been said, but what is necessary, we will gladly repeat it today. If we look at the results of the 2012 legislative changes, which can be said, we can say that this year the government supports the employment of people with disabilities to a very large extent, with HUF 42 billion. We help employers who employ such people, because it costs the employer more time, more effort and more careful organisation of work, and therefore we encourage tax and contribution reductions to employ people with disabilities. This year it amounts to HUF 42 billion. The results of this can be seen, as the rehabilitation card introduced is no longer the state that, in July 2012, 3217 employers employed people with disabilities, but 9166 jobs in comparison with 3217 provide much more work income than aid, much higher than at the time, and they do this not only on a reasonable basis, but also because they are encouraged by the State with a tax discount and a reduction in contributions in the new system after 2012. This is not the case for 5547 people, because of the rehabilitation card, but for 37 762, so this is a six-fold increase, six times as many people can now work as disabled, thanks to the rehabilitation card and the state tax benefits, as they were able to work in 2012 at the time of the amendment. So this is clearly a positive development for those affected, because they do not live on small amounts of care, but are now able to work six times as many people, so the employment level of those with disabilities has also increased to 41,6 percent. It is important to say that the Constitutional Court did not say that it would destroy something from the law, and that what the Member said was misunderstood here, perhaps not by accident. So he didn't say that anything he wanted out of the regulation would be unconstitutional, because he had already examined earlier, in 2017, that the 2012 legislation was in line with the Fundamental Law. He said that the basis for reference, which was stated in the submissions, was that the right to property was violated, did not stop, did not, as a result, destroy the new laws of the 12th century, but was found by the Constitutional Court to fail to comply with the regulatory obligation arising from an international treaty. [[9.10]] Since this is an extremely serious, difficult and complex task, as I mentioned yesterday, the degree of health or physical state change must be established retroactively here, so it must be said that a person was in a state of health and physical health two years ago, three years ago, four years ago, five years ago and five years ago, with relatively few examples of this, not only in Hungarian, but probably also in foreign practice, it is therefore a longer task, which is why we need the consultations and expert work that we referred to here three times yesterday. I would also like to confirm what you said in relation to interest rates and other things: nothing of this kind has been recorded in the Constitutional Court's current decision, so please do not deceive the parties involved, nor do they have undue expectations when the Constitutional Court has not taken such a decision. What was the purpose of the whole regulation, which I have already referred to, is to make sure that these people are able to work and to have a job that receives them as much as possible, not out of low amounts of care and aid. This, of course, requires recovery of the economy, which could not be said before 2010, thanks to God, especially since 2013; on the other hand, economic operators should be financially encouraged to pay, to pay higher salaries to people who used to live on aid. Yesterday I quoted you, and today I would just like to refer to it, not to read the whole part that was said yesterday; you said that there was an extremely high degree of inactivity, more precisely, 2018 In December, when you said that in Hungary, and in addition to four million employees, 806 thousand disabled people were retired. You said that out of 806 thousand disabled people under the retirement age of 460,000, this is an extremely high number, and you put it that way. So you saw the task to be solved in the same way, you saw the situation in the same way, but you didn't take any action; we took action in 2012 and tried to provide jobs for people who could be employed; those who didn't, and those who didn't, of course, have their benefits. You also indicated the proportion of how this happened. A lot of people have applied for the reviews, and we are very pleased that the employment rate is more than twice as high now as before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-02-4	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, MEP Zsolt Gréczy, Democratic Coalition asked for a speech entitled "The Prosperity of the Hungarians and the United States of Europe." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-02-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Europe is moving towards closer integration, the question is whether we Hungarians will be in it or not. A strong and united Europe, as Mr Weber, the top candidate for Fidesz has already announced, will first react with financial sanctions and then possibly with complete expulsion if some Member States, such as Hungary, are working on the decomposing of the Community; especially if someone would do so on their money, at the order of the Russians. The Fidesz and the Orbán government are no longer sitting where important things are decided, the Orbán government was expelled with Viktor Orbán at the front, eating not where the greats eat, but at the cat table, and this is very sad for Hungary, by the way. It's like the international atmosphere is changing anyway. You, too, are obviously watching the news of world politics. In Poland, for example, according to surveys, Mr Kaczyński may lose most of the elections to the European Parliament; Slovakia has elected a Democratic President; your other ally, who is famous for imprisoning everyone who contradicts him, is losing the election in Turkish cities; and a Slovenian weekly depicts your Prime Minister as a rallying Nazi; and at that time I have not even mentioned that Belgrade is boiling and protesting against a type of person just like your Prime Minister. There are countries where they recognize that the Orbán world is beyond following the patterns of fascist ancestors that are particularly damaging to Europe and that it is also particularly damaging to Hungary. According to the Democratic Coalition, the solution is a Hungary that is strongly integrated into a European Union, a European Union that will be a strong competitor of China and the United States. And before you say it's a fever dream or a fantasy, this story was invented and said for the first time in 1946 by a British conservative politician named Sir Winston Churchill... [[To Dr. Balázs Orbán:]] I see, Mr. Secretary, that's a good point; well, poor Churchill doesn't matter anymore, apparently. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: You need to read this a little more! You need to read more about this.]] ; if Viktor Orbán did not say the sentence, then Churchill is also not interested. I have to say that the idea of the European United States is a story in which Hungary will be guaranteed peace, prosperity and the fact that people and families will have more money, and, for example, it will not be what you accept and accept, emigration, but it will be worth staying and working in Hungary. One of these proposals, which the Democratic Coalition will represent in the European Parliament after 26 May, is the European family allowance that would be uniform for all European children, including Hungarian children. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Austrians will surely support it!]] , the European minimum wage and the European minimum pension. The family allowance, I don't think I have to explain, was last raised by the Gyurcsány government in 2008; you voted off the proposal yesterday, which was not only voted out by the Democratic Coalition, but, as I understand, the Hungarian Socialist Party and Dialogue also represented the need to increase the family allowance, but you also voted against it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What was the result of the national consultation on this matter? You're not gonna tell me?]] A European minimum pension and minimum wage would be due if, for example, it were a human minimum, and it would be an obligation for all governments to be unable or unwilling to provide their own citizens with adequate income. In Hungary today, at least 25 percent of families live below the minimum living age; and if you ask me how all this would be financed, I would suggest that you look at the French proposal, which is strongly harmonised on DK's proposal, and this is the European multi-tax, of which there would be an amount available that might not have the right amount, we think you could remedy it in the long term. Hungary should therefore not be afraid to be part of a united Europe; Hungary can also be proud of its traditions, culture, national flag, anthem; this will, of course, strengthen the European Community and Hungary, and the Democratic Coalition will represent this in the European Parliament. Before any replyer slips into the nasty mistake of starting to mention a family business in connection with the Democratic Coalition because several Fidesz MEPs have already done this, I would like to point out that Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife has not taken on the vine subsidies; Ferenc Gyurcsány's dentist has not won EU applications; the EU's fraud office has not launched proceedings against Ferenc Gyurcsány's son-in-law. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And Ferenc Gyurcsány's daughter was not the diaper thrower responsible for tourism. Thank you for your attention. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Applause!]]
u2019-04-02-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-02-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In terms of what the Democratic Coalition would do in the European Parliament, it is not your words that govern it, but what has happened over the last few years: actions that have discredited the country, statements in a bad way, dozens of circulars, and, by the way, the vote on any proposal that undermines Hungary's sovereignty, especially with regard to proposals to support immigration. [[Deficit in the lines of LMP and DK.]] This is the balance of the Democratic Coalition. In response to his suggestion, honourable Member, there is a struggle going on throughout Hungarian history, and this fight is about who makes the decisions about us and our future elsewhere, or we are able to keep these decisions in our own hands. And if we look at Hungarian history, there were always people who said that others could make better decisions about the lives of Hungarians elsewhere; there were always people who thought that others knew better what was good for us, and now you're on this team with this proposal. They've been campaigning for weeks, and I could say that for months, Hungary has been giving away a lot of strategic rights. It is being forced into a country that has fought for its independence for centuries, and which has spent the last century under repression for decades. If we take a good look at your proposal, you are campaigning for the implementation of an open society in Europe, and the feature of open society is to override traditional national communities and borders. [[9.20]] It deprives nations of some of their traditional freedom of action. That's the problem. This would not only be a debate in principle, but also have serious practical consequences. Because if your plan were to be implemented, we would have much less say in economic issues, in terms of tax burden, or even in the ability to control the Hungarian agricultural land. If your plan were to be implemented, we would not be able to determine the energy prices as we are now, we would lose the authority's right to pricing. This step, by the way, clearly leads to price increases based on the experience of other countries, which is not surprising from the point of view of the fact that large multinationals have much greater lobbying powers in Brussels. By the way, it's quite amusing when they talk about the taxation of multinationals, because this government and not Brussels have taxed the multinationals, and you said that it's insane. Your party president said this was insane. You're the ones who tried to stop it. The Democratic Coalition, Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, as you mentioned, would also leave the definition of family allowance to Brussels. There are a lot of serious problems with this. On the one hand, there are many who say that the child is not worth it, because the robots are coming anyway, and there is a population explosion on other continents. That's what they're arguing. You've seen it. And if we add this to the fact that Brussels would encourage immigration, then the consequence is clear: immigrants would be the main beneficiaries of a centralised family allowance in Brussels, honourable Member. So you would spend on immigrants, and we would spend on Hungarian families. By the way, yesterday's vote shows this very well. DK, the Democratic Coalition, Ferenc Gyurcsány's party once again asked for the public disgraced bench and voted against the family protection action plan. Tell me, what's wrong with getting a discount loan for young couples? What's wrong with expanding the home creation program? [[Zsolt Gréczy: Because you're beating them into debt!]] Why is your grandparents bothering you? And why do you have to go against the Hungarian families at all? Why? It's all this, Your Honour, but it's not patriotism. They had a congressman who explained the theoretical background. Tamás Bauer even wrote that if he had to decide between supporting families or immigrants, he would support the latter. Well, yesterday they confirmed it with their vote; it's a big shame. Your proposal, the implementation of the European United States and the open society, is all about, but not about Hungarians. And if I wanted to sum it up briefly, we could say: decreasing Hungarian self-determination, higher overhead, decreasing multi-taxes, less impact on wages, more money on immigrants and less on Hungarian families. That's your toxic election cocktail. Thank you, we don't want any. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-02-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-02-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, A data is worth what they trust. It is therefore of paramount importance that the Statistical Office has social respect and trust in it. Therefore, this institution should not be criticised very much. But there are cases and there are times when I have to, and now I have to do the same. There's some disturbing news coming from the Statistical Office's house. The number of the office has decreased by more than 300 people, there is a very high turnover in the office, which is very unusual for an institution where special knowledge is needed, where it has been quite typical that someone was there when he was young and retired from there as well. Now the probation workers won't stay at the office either, the work environment is very bad. After the slave law last week, the head of the External Statistics Department, who previously led the Department of National Accounts, the head of the regional statistics, the head of the consumer price department, five of the six heads of the IT department asked for his exemption. Why is the office in a bad mood? Why do so many quit? The question arises. Because the whole office is in a double grip, on the one hand, between the facts and the political expectations, and this lurking is very difficult. 'Cause if we look at it, there's been some really weird numbers coming out of the Statistical Office lately. The number of poverty and the number of poor has, surprisingly, fallen by over a million. The average gross earnings came out with a figure of 350 thousand forints. Real wages increased by 28 percent, according to the records and the Statistical Office. Once again, I am haunted by the eye-ear disease, which in the 1950s had one of its own: I can't see what I hear on the radio, and I can't hear what I see. Obviously, these numbers will not be sustainable in the longer term. The Statistical Office has already started the correction. If you look at it, the average monthly gross wage in the latest wage statistics is already 50-60 thousand forints less than previously shown. It is very worrying that the KSH does not comply with the Code of Practice, and there are no published publications, such as the latest publication on women, which would have been published for women's day, has been the victim of censorship. The publication on international migration was published a year late, instead of autumn 2017 in autumn 2018, obviously in order not to disturb or interfere with the election campaign. The KSH should report on its own work every year, but it hasn't happened in the last five years. What can be done in this situation? I would like to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, on a par playing field. One third of the members of the committee of inquiry could be given by the governing parties, one third by the opposition and one third by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I know, by the way, I am not naive that this will certainly not be anything, because this will be vetoed by the ruling party, but I will make this proposal, in any case. But even if this fails, I will continue my investigation around the Statistical Office, and I will make a record of these matters to the Director-General of Eurostat, and even to the International Statistical Institute, because I think they have the right to be informed about this. It's not a betrayal or a political matter, as you might think. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We wouldn't happen to think that.]] It is a bloody and hard professional question whether we can make a realistic, good picture of economic and social processes. The Hungarian people, as you say, have an essential interest in being properly informed about the events surrounding them, and they can only do so if they receive professionally sound, reliable information and reliable data. Therefore, I will continue this professional work. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-02-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-04-02-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, I have to start by saying again that it is quite amazing that you are playing sports again by attacking your former workplace. This is an extreme sport that very few people in Hungary do, but you do it professionally. You used to be an employee of the century, and there's a final court ruling that you weren't telling the truth. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]]
u2019-04-02-12	Congresswoman, may I ask? ! Thank you.
u2019-04-02-13	If I wanted to say the same thing badly, I could say that you lied about the century's end. There's a legal decision on this. And now he's doing the same thing with the KSH. He started the same Fake news production earlier in the previous session, when we were arguing on this subject, and now he has continued this in the case of KSH. Because the data of the KSH in relation to the wages you have mentioned are just the opposite. It's a psychological disorder called cognitive dissonance, by the way. The data, the reality, doesn't fit with your psychological perception, because your psychological perception is that this country is collapsing. The reality, on the other hand, is that this country is developing and coming from one to two. And the data from the KSH confirms the same. We're not saying the fence is made of sausage. [[9.30]] We say one thing: that Hungarian people can go from one to the other, and this is a radically different story compared to what was before 2010, compared to what was in your federal system, when they had government responsibility. Yeah, and it's important. You're always suggesting that you're conservative. Compared to this, he is in a party, which makes an alliance with parties that want a basic income, which wants to set up his policy on aid instead of work, which believes in supporting immigration, which is not in terms of tax cuts, but in terms of raising taxes. So I don't understand what's going on with the principles. So either you're in the wrong place, or you, if your interests wish, you'll give up your principles without a problem. In the context of the specific data of the KSH, I can say that KSH has just released the data according to which the gross average wage in Hungary is HUF 343 thousand. This represents an increase of about 10 percent. The net average wage is HUF 228 thousand, which is an increase of almost 10 percent, and I can tell you that thanks to God, thanks to the performance of Hungarian people, the Hungarian economy is growing. GDP growth is 4.9 percent, and wages can also increase from this economic performance. From the economic performance of the Hungarian people, the country can perform better, and from this the convergence, i.e. wage catch-up, can be achieved. The politics that your party represents and those who are allies of this party... you may not be a member of the party, but you are sitting in the faction. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right.]] You take responsibility, it's called political responsibility, and unfortunately you have to take responsibility for that. Unfortunately, it's an alliance, apparently. So the politicians you're sitting with in the parliamentary faction are questioning this performance. From behind the Hungarian economy, I would like to take out this performance by means of the policy that they are promoting here in the Parliament. Therefore, it will cease, if they are put into power, the performance of the Hungarian economy will cease. [[Demercation in the benches of opposition parties.]] Taxes are rising, and the wage increase and convergence that has been achieved in recent years cannot continue. What you mentioned was a Fake News production with numbers. Since the '90s, KSH has known or should at least know precisely, since it has managed the same methodology for calculating data for both gross wages and real wages in each cycle. The same methodology has been in place since the '90s. This is fortunate, and we are happy to do so because it is clear that there is a difference between governance between 2002-2010 and the quality of governance after 2010. And the problem for you is that you want to change this methodology, that based on this difference, comparability with previous ones, and the fact that thanks to the good God and all of us should be happy, the country is doing better, this should disappear. I reject this kind of fake news production on behalf of the KSH and the Hungarian government. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-02-14	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech: Europe will be green or will not be! Two with a title. You have the floor.
u2019-04-02-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The stakes of the European Parliament elections are that the Hungarian national interest will finally be represented in the European Union. It is also at the stake of the elections to finally talk about the Hungarian people, the issues that are important to them, the issues that need to be resolved at European level. We in the LMP work to build a Europe of people instead of a Europe of multinationals; a Europe that can provide security and stability for Hungarian people. Multinational companies should finally be limited, and the principle of paying for the polluter should be applied, not taking this money out of people's pockets. In addition, we need to reduce the tax avoidance of large companies and eliminate tax havens. From EU funds, LMP would support small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, which can create significantly more jobs for Hungarian workers on the ground than multinational companies. Furthermore, these grants can be used to achieve the substantial development of the Hungarian regions and to stop the mass emigration that has been seen in recent years. We also have to fight for wages to finally rise after the European Union elections and spend on it from EU funds, as we also have to make European salaries in Hungary. We will therefore fight to introduce a common European minimum wage. We will also fight to ensure that European Union funds are not reduced for Hungary, but that their payment is strictly controlled and that it reaches directly to those to whom this support is addressed, by circumventing corrupt governments. We must adopt an EU climate plan as soon as possible, as the future of our children depends on it. We need a regulation that finally results in clean air, clean drinking water and well-functioning waste management, and that is what it can provide to the Hungarian people. It is necessary to make substantial improvements from EU funds and to spend this money on high added value knowledge, as this is how backward regions can be effectively developed. To date, four of the seven poorest regions of the European Union are in Hungary. This can't stay like this. The security aspects of the Hungarian people must finally be on the European Union's table and we must restore Hungary's ability to assert its interests. We work to ensure that the interests of Hungary and Central Europe can be enforced in the European Union at least as much as those of the founding Member States. People's security must be one of the central issues of the next EU budget, since it is not a question of taking action against illegal migration, and immigration policy must remain national, and each Member State has the right to decide who it wants to live with and who it does not. We must strengthen the protection of the European Union's external borders. We will contribute to this EU endeavour with an active policy, as this is in the immediate security interest of the Hungarian people. The root causes of the migration crisis must finally be explored and we must point out that mass migration is primarily the result of climate change, war conflicts and the exploitation of economies by large companies. These root causes must finally be dealt with in a sustainable way, as the aim is to enable everyone to thrive in their homeland. In addition, we need to establish close cooperation with the Balkan countries and direct more money from EU funds to Hungary's border protection and security. It is very important when talking about security that the risks posed by, for example, the headquarters agreement of the International Investment Bank should be removed as soon as possible. This not only helps illegal intelligence activities in Putin, but it is also capable of circumventing the rules on money laundering, money laundering and terrorist financing, so this contract must be terminated and those who stole from Hungarian taxpayers must be accounted for. It is necessary to make the Commission's decision-making process finally transparent, since we clearly see that, for example, Paks II. He could have been given the green light, and so they could overlook the increase in Russian influence and security risks. The Paks II Act has to be terminated and the renewable energies have to be converted. With this, it is also possible to achieve a 30 per cent reduction of the Hungarian people's rent. Zero percent atomic, 100 percent renewable energy; that's the future. The future will be green, or it won't be. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are building a Europe of people; a safe, XXI. We are building a Europe of the century, which is why we are working.
u2019-04-02-16	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-02-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for your speech before today's agenda is more focused than the previous one, which has succeeded in doing so, so it broadly defines the two main directions to which it is worth responding, to which it is worth responding. If I understood your speech correctly, you wanted to share with us a few words about climate protection, pollution and some thoughts about Hungarian economic development, the development of the Hungarian economy and the living conditions, income conditions and employment of the people here. I understand that's what you're trying to say, although your comment was eclectic enough right now. When he spoke up and told me his first introductory thought, it occurred to me that, according to his title, he was actually dressed from red to green, but his thoughts pointed back to the appearance of a few months ago, a few years ago, in what kind of dress he appeared before us: red. [[9.40]] After all, he has hit the multinationals here, and he has hit companies who have, by the way, completed and ensured the development and development of the Hungarian economy and a significant part of the employment in recent years with proper regulation. But before I talk about economic development, employment, income conditions, let's look at your thoughts on climate protection. Here he painted almost such an emergency and a very, very bad picture of the conditions. I would like to tell you, because the figures speak for themselves, and they are not as slogans and platitudes as you have said in your speech, for example, that domestic CO2 emissions per capita are around 6 tonnes, whereas the EU average is 8 tonnes per person per year. So we are paying very serious attention to sustainability in Hungary and can contribute to climate protection in an appropriate way. It has to be said that Hungary is responsible for 0.13 percent of the total greenhouse gas emissions of the Earth and 1.4 percent of the emissions of the European Union. I think it is important to note this because even though we are responsible for a very small proportion, we have the right sense of responsibility for climate protection and environmental protection. For example, one of the additions to this is that most electric cars are sold in our region, and this is done with very significant public support, so that we can act properly in this area of environmental awareness and take the lead in this sector, in this area. Another example. The government is also in favour of reducing CO2 emissions from passenger cars and trucks. For example, we supported reducing emissions by 15% by 2025, by 30% by 2030. We have also significantly reduced emissions in the energy sector by increasing the share and capacity of renewable energy. We have already raised their share to 14.2 percent by 2016, while our commitment to the EU should be recorded and monitored by 2020. It was 13 percent. So we have already raised it to 14.2 percent, and our commitment by 2020 was 13 percent. So to take account of actions and actions on our part, I think you can't, because the numbers prove that we are doing everything we can to protect the climate, and we will continue to do so. His speech, when he spoke about actions, talked about job opportunities, about delays, he suspected, and it came to me that you were jealous of the performance of the Hungarian people, which has been shown in the field of employment and the development of the economy. Today we have already said what indicators we have, what significant economic development the Hungarian economy has undergone in the last eight years. After the first one or two years, the Hungarian economy is constantly growing, which shows itself in employment, since we reduced unemployment from nearly 12 percent to 3.7 percent, the average wage has increased by nearly 70 percent, given the family tax reduction and the net real wage has also increased significantly. Now, this is something your allies couldn't show up at the time, and they did the opposite. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Those who are the best, such as Congressman Gréczy [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] They've done the opposite of everything we've done in these two government cycles. [[Zsolt Gréczy: And you are proud of this!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-02-18	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group, Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-04-02-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, During this morning, the European Parliament's elections have been discussed several times, and it is indeed right to talk about the European Union, the European Parliament's elections and their stakes two months before the decisive EP elections, on one of the last parliamentary days. Several of my fellow Members have already addressed this cardinal issue. I am convinced that there are basically two stakes in elections to the European Parliament. The first and perhaps most important stake is to allow you to take our country out of the community of European countries with a noble simplicity after thirteen years of membership, and to allow you to build a feudal semi-dicture based on wage slavery here in Hungary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Oh, my God!]] Yes, my fellow Member from Rétvár, I believe that those who walk with open eyes and open ears in this country have understood precisely that this election is essentially at stake. In addition, in the conflict debate with your own party family in recent weeks, you have demonstrated exactly what awaits Hungary if you continue to remain in government here, and you determine EU politics here in Hungary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tax reduction, family support, higher employment...]] Because your own allies and your friends don't want any more of you. As much as you embellish it with communication lozunges, the end result is that you are left without partners and allies, which is a tragedy in that 21st century. in the century, where the policy of shutting down should not fundamentally prevail [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Open Society! That's a nice way to say it. Say it.]] instead, identifying national issues, national issues of fate and enforcing them through various associations, through different cooperations. When you isolate yourself as a party of government on the European Union and on the international stage [[Dr. Pál Völner: And where is Jobbik?]] Then the chances of this national advocacy will be weakened. The chances of advocacy converge to zero, and in the coming years, the EU debate will be about how much the budget will be and how much Hungary will receive and what the future of the European Union will be and where Hungary will have its place in the global world. The chances of this will be destroyed when Viktor Orbán isolates the country, and Hungary breaks down, slides down and falls behind in relation to all other countries. You are playing a political gamble with the European Union. First, they had absolutely amazing illusions, irresponsible illusions against the European Union, for example, when they voted for the Lisbon Treaty themselves, and now by creating conflicts and, basically, they are hopelessly isolating Hungary on a stage where we should enforce national interests. Jobbik, on the other hand, offers an alternative. He identified the national issues that we will represent in the European Parliament in the coming years, perhaps one of the most important issues being migration, where, unlike you, we would like to protect Hungary not only by words but by actions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: With Ferenc Gyurcsány hand in hand!]] You have allowed 86 thousand migrants into this country, on which my fellow Member Balázs Orbán debated only the number yesterday. It is very good that the debate is not about 86 thousand, but only about 85 thousand or so; with this, you acknowledge that thousands of migrants have been irresponsiblely released to Hungary and, moreover, migrants whose background we know very little and they pose a national security risk. Jobbik will protect the country not only with border protection, but also with the screening of migrants you have planted, and together with the European Union, we will look for the possibility of protecting not only individual nation states but also our entire continent from illegal migration. The issue of emigration is as important as the issue of immigration. In this connection, my fellow Member Demeter has already said that, in contrast to the multinationals, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported in order to achieve a wage closure in Hungary, to break off the neoliberal policy that you have put to the top, which is based on low wages, which is based on the vulnerability of Hungarian workers, and which is based on the continuous liquefaction of the Hungarian labour code. On the other hand, we represent, ladies and gentlemen, that cohesion funds must be reformed so that they serve to improve the quality of life here in Hungary through education, health and wage catching-up, and the complete elimination of corruption, which is one of the biggest obstacles to Hungary becoming a competitive and prosperous country in Western Europe. We represent this, unlike you, and we will represent it in the European Parliament for the next five years. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-02-20	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[9.50]]
u2019-04-02-21	Mr President, Dear House, Quotes: We swear, we swear that we will no longer be members. Who's the quote from? [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Which archaeological artifact is this? Interviews from Jobbik, including Dóra Dúró's husband! A member of our country's movement!]] It's from your party president. It's from Jobbik's former party president. The former party leader of Jobbik was not a runaway boat cannon on this issue, as it is also included in Jobbik's party program, it is still in the 2014 program. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: What century?]] In 2014! For the previous European Parliament election cycle, for this term, you have campaigned with it. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] Members who are sitting in Parliament and who have not left you have campaigned with this programme. The programme was the following: a referendum on accession to the European Union has to be issued because it has to be considered to leave this relationship. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: This is what the Hungarian Movement says!]] Seriously eligible Hungarian parliamentary party [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] there has been one piece in the Hungarian Parliament, which campaigned against the European Union and against EU membership, that was Jobbik. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This program came from the civilian population of Orbán. Viktor Orbán and Gábor Vona!]] So in that sense, Mr. Group Leader, your entire speech is completely untrue. The other story, the other branch of the matter, may I refer it back to Congressman Gréczy with one more sentence: did British conservative politician Winston Churchill say what he said in a slightly different historical context, because then he knows what happened, Congressman? [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Answer me!]] [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Answer me!]] The Iron Curtain has descended on Europe. The Soviets came, your comrades came, they came to that empire (Márton Gyöngyösi: Answer me!) The representatives of [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] There are representatives of the realm that you would like to recall. The same imperialist imperial logic people came in. [[Constant noise from Jobbik's ranks.]] and restricted the sovereignty of the nations. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Intercapitalist! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Believe me, a conservative politician and Winston Churchill would not have supported the imperialist thinking that was at that time in Europe. [[Constant noise and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Trappist!]] Mr Gyöngyösi, is there nothing interesting about this that you have listened to Congressman Gréczy's speech, and after that, you may not be campaigning together with these people at the European Parliament elections, but at the 15 March ceremony and the municipal elections and otherwise in every amazing forum? We are talking about Europe being at a crossroads. That's what we're talking about! We had the pleasure of arguing earlier, and he mentioned that one of his favorite books is about the twilight of Europe. The twilight of Europe? with a question mark at the end, but it is written that there are two paths to Europe. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Continue your journey!]] One is to try an Imperial Center [[Dr. László György Lukács: From Moscow!]] Destroy the nations, eliminate the nation states. It is also said here in Parliament's speeches that nation states are the problems [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] these are not necessary [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Who voted for the Lisbon Treaty?]] They must be broken down, the borders must be broken down, the multicultural society must be built up, and, by the way, Vice-President Timmermans also says that if this does not please the Eastern European countries, they will get used to it. Now, that's one of the pictures of Europe. The other picture of Europe is, unfortunately, the image represented by the governing parties alone in the Hungarian Parliament, the, God, home, family, three. That means... [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] that a Europe based on Jewish-Christian culture [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] that Europe and the protection of borders based on the support of European families...
u2019-04-02-22	Fellow Members!
u2019-04-02-23	... a European vision based on the protection of borders and the cooperation of equal, free nations. In that book you're so fond of shooting, it says there's no C-version, there's no middle road, there's A, there's B. You can decide whether to support this or not to support it. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Marxi dialectika!]] You are also on the other side, as are the United States of Europe. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Bolshevik logic!]] stand by his ideals, as they have already sided with pro-immigration. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: This is Bolshevism!]] What a lousy trick...
u2019-04-02-24	Mr. Gyöngyösi Group leader, may I ask that the dialogue be concluded now? ! Secretary of State speaking. My apologies, Mr. Secretary. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2019-04-02-25	Thank you very much. And what a lousy trick is that in the meantime, you're trying to accuse the government of supporting immigration, while also quoting the former party president: The quota's off, according to Jobbik. Together with the Liberals, they drilled the quota vote, and after the clear 3.3 million electoral support, they blackmailed the government and then did not support the fundamental law amendment in Parliament. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: The settlement bonds! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame on you! You gave it for money!]] They did not vote for the amendment of the basic law. [[Constant noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] In addition, Stop Sorost [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and in the case of a special tax to support immigration, which would be aimed precisely at combating civil society organisations supporting immigration and supporting illegal migration. These are the measures that you do not support. Their European policy is completely uncredited [[Lajos Korózs and Bence Tordai applaud. Lajos Korózs: Oh! Flash and noise from Jobbik's ranks.]] and their migration policy. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-02-26	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before I miss you being in the circus, I'm gonna ask you to stop this. [[Bence of Turdai is leaving the Chamber.]] Stop it! [[Turning to pro-government representatives:]] He wasn't talking to you, he noticed, and he left the room. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Hende, Vice-President of Parliament, applied for a pre-scheduled speech... [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. László György Lukács: What's happening in Szombathely?]] Excuse me, before the agenda, Mr Szászfalvi, Member of the KDNP Group, asked for an important order of steps to ensure the survival of the nation. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Go! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among them: He backed out quickly! Let's go!]] . Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-04-02-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The primary task of the national government is to ensure the survival of the nation by all available legal means, the security of Hungarian families and the fulfilment of both the quality of life and equal opportunities of citizens and communities. Thirdly, Hungarian voters confirmed this tripartite task of the national government by a two-thirds majority a year ago and their expectation that the government, with the support of the governing parties, would not cease to do everything to achieve these national goals. Ladies and gentlemen, In the previous two government cycles, the government has served this target system with countless tools and programs. In the last few months, in the spring session of the Parliament, we have taken further important steps to improve the survival of the nation, the safety of families and the quality of life of citizens. We, Christian democrats, see the solution of social problems in organic development, i.e. based on a strong and developing economy, building on a step-by-step programme, coordinating the various legal, financial, community and individual resources, and through complex and innovative means we can achieve our social policy goals, reversing the trend of population decline, increasing the strength and equal opportunities of small settlements, and strengthening families and communities. Over the past 8-9 years, there have been countless government measures and results in these areas, but I think we have now reached another important stage in the national government's social policy. It is perhaps not an exaggeration to call them national programmes of historical importance, since both the family protection action and the Hungarian village programme and the village CSOK are important programs that Hungarian society has been waiting for since the change of regime. Dear House, I trust that yesterday's vote on the family protection action will confirm the indication that we have just said: historical and national. But let us not forget that this decision has been preceded and established by a dialogue with citizens, a national consultation that has determined the direction and strength of our decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, Similarly to the family protection action, the Hungarian village program and the additional village CSOK can be called a historic national programme, since in the last 30 years there has not been an example that a government would have launched a complex development programme of this magnitude from the national budget of Hungary in order to increase the population retention power of our small settlements. Similarly to the family protection action, this programme has been developed by the government through a wide-ranging dialogue, resulting in the most intensive cooperation with interest organisations, local governments, civil society organisations and relevant ministries through hundreds of meetings and consultation. The aim of the programme is to mitigate the disadvantages of small settlements below 5 000 people, to strengthen equal opportunities for people living here, including access to services, public services and to the development of missing infrastructure and community building. The aim of the Hungarian village programme is to increase the population-preservation power of our small settlements in improving the quality of life in the village. [[10.00]] This year, 15 target areas can be applied to local governments and our historic churches. If we add to all this the initiation of the renovation of the 3-4-5-digit state roads, the village CSOK in nearly 2400 settlements, the launching of the state-organized school bus system, then we can indeed say that we have launched a complex village programme of small settlements, the numerous elements of which serve each other by strengthening, serving the Hungarian families and the survival of the nation. These programmes do not apply for a year, but will continue in the coming years in line with the performance of the economy, thus creating the opportunity to further develop the programmes. On behalf of the KDNP, I can say that we trust and that is why we are working to support the government, so that this programme will deserve the historical and national signal and will effectively serve our social policy goals and, at the same time, the Europe of strong nations. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-02-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-02-29	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You have given your speech the title "Important steps for the survival of the nation." We believe that it can be said without exaggeration that these are two key areas for the survival, survival and growth of the nation, which you mentioned in your speech, and which are also closely related to each other. After all, we cannot speak of Hungary as a strong country if there are no growing families and we cannot speak of Hungary as a strong country if there are no developing settlements and strong local communities. Therefore, we believe that creative, if you like, unorthodox and radical instruments are needed to strengthen these two pillars, so that the Hungarian future is based on Hungarian families and Hungarians, rural and Budapest Hungarians as well. Such a solution for us, as you have mentioned, is the family protection action plan and the Hungarian village programme, as well as the Modern Cities programme. With regard to the family support system, I can tell you that this is a unique system in Europe, which has successfully stimulated the desire to have children, and we hope that the measures adopted by Parliament, which will now take effect from 1 July or later, from 1 January, will also serve the goal of everyone who wishes to have children, to do so in Hungary today. Moreover, we think this is an alternative to immigration, so we do not think that Hungary's future should be founded on immigration, but instead that the resources available should be used to support families. With regard to the program "Hungarian Village" that Hungary is performing better, the work of the rural people has a big role to play, and we want the Hungarian people to feel wherever they live in the country, in their own settlements, as we have already talked about, that they can move forward, that they can move from one to two. Therefore, we would like to support rural cities and small villages with considerable resources to implement their long cherished urban development plans. This is also the story of the Modern Cities programme and the Hungarian village programme. In 2019, as you mentioned, the Hungarian village programme is available for HUF 150 billion, but it is intended to be a one-cycle program, and let's think about it, if we manage to complete this program for many years, even for a decade, in a similar amount of resources, what a development opportunity and perspective it opens for Hungarian settlements and those living in the smallest settlements. We believe that the effects of population decline in Hungary are currently affecting the lives of people living in small settlements the most, and for decades it has been typical that the population of settlements of less than five thousand people is decreasing. In addition, one of the main losers of government operations between 2002-2010 was the Hungarian countryside, in addition to the population of the villages where public services were broken down, kindergartens and schools closed, and the population loss exceeded the national average in almost all such settlements. The Hungarian village, which is a programme for the development of these settlements, is built on three pillars: the development of a side road network, the launch of the village CSOK programme and the improvement of the quality of public services. The applications will be published on schedule, each will be presented separately and will be available on kormany.hu. The first calls have already been made in the last week of February. Since then, there have been three other calls: the development of religious and local communities and health promotions. Two months after the application, and then two months after that, the criticism and decision on the grant will be made. There can be a lot of supported projects, so we hope that most of the municipalities concerned will be able to support at least one project, a programme through this project. We hope that within 135 days we will be able to deliver the money to the beneficiaries in the case of winning applications. The most important goal of the Hungarian village is, as we talked about many times, to reverse the migration from the villages. The program is complex, we also deal with the issue of housing, going to work, local institutionalisation, the quality of public services, and we believe that the Hungarian village programme is the government's commitment to rural Hungary. We therefore thank Members very much for their support for this programme and for our efforts to earn the confidence of rural voters as much as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-02-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Hende, Vice-President of the Fidesz Group, Vice-President of the Parliament, President of the Legislative Committee, came forward to address the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, The address of the Vice-President's speech is: You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2019-04-02-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent days, the Hungarian law enforcement authorities have captured one of the Islamic State's executioners, Hassan F., in Ferihegy. Hassan F. applied for and received political asylum in Greece. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Where did you come in? Did he climb the fence?]] The terrorist was identified by the Centre for Counter-Terrorism on request from the Belgian authorities. As is already known, Hassan F. received a Brussels migrant card. However, the European Commission has recently denied that these cards are dangerous. They claim they know the identity of every cardholder. Natasha Bertaud, the competent spokesperson of the European Commission, acknowledged the fact that Hassan F. received a migrant card at a press conference in Brussels. According to the Commission's January report, 64 thousand such cards have been distributed, obviously even more since then. If, in Brussels, they really know who they're handing out anonymous cards with such money, then the Brussels Commission was aware that the Syrian terrorist Hasan F. had also received a migrant card. Or didn't they know about this? Which case is worse, my dear House? I would like to remind you that, here in Parliament, a few months ago, I expressed my concerns about the risk of financing terrorism in Brussels. I could do this in connection with the emergence of the first such anonymous credit cards, the Brussels migrant cards, in Bosnia. I wish I hadn't been right, dear House. How many innocent Europeans have to die because of this irresponsible policy? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Well, yeah, for example, for admission!]] We would also like an answer on how Brussels controls the owner and use of migrant cards. Who are the intermediate organisations? Are immigration-supporting political activist groups involved in the controls? It is shocking that Brussels is handing out a migrant card filled with money to tens of thousands, while the European secret services are warning that hundreds of terrorists from the repressed Islamic State are moving to Europe in the midst of migrants. We look forward to Brussels' answers. People want straight answers instead of bullshit. Because many are outraged that Brussels is also financing terrorists who are trying to reach Europe with the migrant card. We would also like to have the answer to the question of how many suspects Brussels has given a migrant card to so far. According to the secret services, there are already thousands of sleeping terrorists in Europe, and their numbers are now increasing with the Islamic fighters who are trying to reach Europe. The European Parliament is also adopting a series of resolutions in which the common element is the resolution on legalisation of immigration. [[10.10]] They want to legalise illegal immigration, and the Hungarian government wants to stop it. Dear House, Syrian migrants are planning to leave Turkey and Greece for Germany in the next few weeks. To date, nearly 40,000 migrants have joined the social media initiative called The Caravan of Hope. The number of convoys may increase more than once with family members, as free organisation and escort provided by international humanitarian organisations can make the journey particularly attractive. At the same time, another caravan of migrants trapped in Greece is being organised. In the report of the European Parliament, the number of European citizens who fought in the ties of the terrorist organisation which is the Islamic State itself is among 3900-4300. Some of them have returned, the rest of them can now return home with the collapse of the terrorist organization. All this poses a huge security risk for those who irresponsiblely and uncontrolledly unleash on Europe extremist Islamic terrorists disguised as peaceful refugees. Dear Parliament, He is an accomplice among sinners, who is mute, who writes the poet. That is why we must raise our voice, which is the best that we Hungarians can do for the people in danger in Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-02-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-02-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The question of migrant cards is growing and there are no answers from Brussels. In the beginning, they even denied that such programs existed, or were handing out such cards, and eventually it turned out that there were cards, and it turned out that Hassan F. had received one of the executioners, the executioner of the Islamic State, from this card. [[Dr. László György Lukács: You used to be able to pull out the secret cards. The president's ringing the bell.]] We do not know exactly, and we are waiting for the European Commission and the European Union to answer exactly how long Hasan F. received this card, for how long he could have used it. The news is that he could have used this card for up to two years, and European taxpayers, all of us, have helped him to live better in Europe than he could live in his own country. We are talking about EUR 500 per month, which is an outstanding income compared to the average income of the areas from which these people come. Here opposition politicians like to talk about the need to provide European wages to everyone at a similar level. The European Union seems to only provide the executioner of the Islamic State with such a wage, which is high compared to his own country. There are many questions, therefore, and a lot of them, too, Mr President, and let me ask you a few. If the check is so strict, if it is so thoroughly reviewed, who can enter the Union on the one hand, and who can receive regular monthly financial support on the other, how is it possible that F. Hassan also received such support? What kind of control can we be talking about, especially when the European Union puts proposals from week to week, month to month on the table of the various European decision-making bodies that want to increase the control powers of people whose nets have not yet had Hassan F., one of the executioners of the Islamic State, and they want to remove as many licenses as possible from the nation states and move control and control to themselves legally? It is important how long you received this card, how long you could have used it; perhaps this will tell you where and how you have been turning in the past. It is also important to clarify exactly how much the use of cards or this benefit has cost European citizens not only the whole programme but also, where appropriate, F. Hassan. In recent weeks, in recent months, the news has been about the European Union's intention to withdraw legitimate subsidies from countries who refuse to accept immigrants who are controlled by the European Union while using European people's money to provide regular benefits to F. Hassan and others as immigrants. What contradictory situation is there that countries who want to defend themselves are being punished, who have committed proven crimes against humanity, and who are being rewarded or supported by the European Union, whether they want to or not? Who is involved in the inspection? It is important to know, because those who took part in the audit and F. Hassan passed through their filter must not be trusted with any European issues, no security policy issues, no counter-terrorism issues, and these people are sitting in Brussels, and they also have a lot of proposals for taking over border protection and other powers. It is not possible to place in the hands of people, whether migration-related issues or the protection of external borders, on whose system Hassan F. has passed smoothly, and even for years, they have been granted benefits and monthly income. These bodies have all proven their incompetence, and these bodies cannot protect the safety of the people of Europe, the Hungarian people. And from the same circles comes the quota proposal, the expansion of the migration fund, the concentration of border protection. I would point out that these people cannot be focused on border protection licenses, who can't even filter out the perpetrator of such a high-level criminal offence. And the issue of the migrant visa is also there, which is very similar, automatic, to almost all immigrants, providing relief and administrative relief, as was the migrant card. And let us not forget that the European Union also voted to support NGOs in support of immigration, amounting to HUF 570 billion. It also shows that nation states can protect external borders, that nation states can guarantee European security more effectively than any EU body. This is why the policy of the Hungarian opposition that would give up these powers would be extremely dangerous, as the European Union could not protect European citizens on this issue, from months to months on almost every issue, but also from this issue. Those who follow the policy of handing over as many powers, as many sovereignty elements to Brussels as possible in the European Parliament elections would expose Hungary to further such risks, which would expose Europe to such risks. The nation states must be protected, and not in the plans of the European United States, such mistakes must be given unlimited opportunity and the opportunity to defend their own security and to protect their own borders. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-02-34	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We'll continue our work now. Dear Parliament, CXX of 2001 on the capital market follows a series of steps. a joint debate on the draft law amending law in an exceptional procedure. [[Noise.]] Congressman, if I don't disturb you... Thank you. The government referral is T/5565. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, the author of the bill. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-04-02-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I would like to present to you, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, a proposal to amend the Capital Markets Act. The proposal is unusually short compared to the average size of the proposals submitted by the Government and the Ministry of Finance, but I think it is important for the capital market which is becoming increasingly important today. The bill aims to promote the use of new capital market solutions, while also contributing to the issuance of bonds for small and medium-sized enterprises, while putting particular emphasis on investor protection. A bond issue entails significant costs and requires sufficient volume to be effective, so SMEs, unlike large companies, cannot afford to do so on their own. However, sufficient size efficiency can be achieved if a financial institution uses the so-called securitisation technique to finance SMEs. This means that, in this case, these companies' absorption needs are linked and packed together by compression into a bond, which makes it possible to save significant costs. This proposal aims to stimulate this with an additional assistance by allowing the participation of a reliable supervised entity, the Stock Exchange consultants, in this process. [[10.20]] This requires the amendment of the Capital Markets Act to allow the stock exchange to play a role in the formation and operation of an expert company engaged in securitisation-enhancing activities. Ownership in such a company is permitted as an exceptional opportunity by the proposed amendment and can be achieved by authorisation and supervision of supervision. Once again, I would like to stress that the proposal also requires that the company's operation should pay particular attention to the protection of the interests of investors affected by securitisation. Dear Parliament, I sincerely hope that you will agree with the idea outlined, which is why I ask you to support the bill tabled with your vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-04-02-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee.
u2019-04-02-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 1 April 2019 the Legislative Committee discussed the 2001 CXX on capital markets. T/5565. Bill No. 1. The Committee adopted the summary report by 24 votes to 12 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, The government's aim with the bill is to bring about the recovery of the capital market by the appropriate means, which should allow the stock exchange to set up a professional support company in order to facilitate the spread of securitisation. The proposal allows the stock exchange to play a role in the formation and operation of an advisory company that facilitates securitisation. The bill aims to facilitate the use of new capital market solutions, while also contributing to the issuance of bonds for small and medium-sized enterprises. The acquisition of ownership in such a company can be achieved by allowing and controlling supervision as an exceptional option. The operation of the company shall pay particular attention to the protection of the interests of the investors involved in the securitisation. Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the bill will contribute to the recovery of the capital market, which is why I ask you to support the motion. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-04-02-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per faction. I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2019-04-02-39	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the State Secretary's Expoze, you have heard the presentation of a bill amending the Capital Markets Act, and I now briefly describe the position of the Fidesz faction on the motion submitted. The bill before you, as you can see, is not a large initiative, yet it contains important elements for the capital market. The bill allows the stock exchange to participate in the establishment and operation of companies that are advisory activities in order to facilitate securitisation. In these companies, ownership may take place with the authorisation and control of supervision. An important element of the bill is also the need to pay particular attention to the protection of the interests of investors affected by securitisation. With the bill, the government's main objective is to achieve the recovery of the capital market through new products and tools, for which the stock exchange should be able to set up a professional support company to facilitate the spread of securitisation. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, the bill is forward-looking for the capital market, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support it, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-02-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-04-02-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, 40 hours, it won't take 48 hours to negotiate such an extremely important bill in an exceptional procedure. We have listened to the expo, the speaker's speech, and I still do not know exactly what this legislation is about, because you keep saying that this is extremely important for the capital markets. On 31 March 2019 at 7:47 p.m. Zsolt Semjén will submit this bill, and on 2 April 2019 we will vote on it at 12:30 p.m. Well, that's how important this bill is. It has been said that it is short; I would like to read it out, because it is indeed a very short bill. § CXX of 2001 on the capital market. Law 330 The following paragraph 5a is added: By way of derogation from paragraph 5 the stock exchange may also establish and operate an advisory company which, with the authorisation and control of the Supervisory Board, facilitates securitisation, establishes detailed operational and procedural rules and pays particular attention to the protection of the interests of the investors involved in the securitisation. 2. § This law shall enter into force on the third day following its publication. That's all this legislation, the justification actually contains the same thing, a little by mixing words. This is four and a half rows, a period of less than 40 hours to talk about this, and there is a party sentence, which sets out detailed operating and procedural rules by an economic company, which I think was only introduced to make this draft legislation a little longer. I beg you, why you have to put that in this legislation! This is the case anyway, the Accounting Act and the Civil Code specify in detail how to operate. The Capital Markets Act also sets out detailed rules. Why do you have to put this in this paragraph? Of course, the question arises that there is another reason why this law must be rolled through the House very quickly, in 40 hours. We didn't get an answer from the expo. In addition, I would like an answer to a very important question. We know that the Budapest Stock Exchange is essentially operating with three owners. There are many more, but there are three basic circles: the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, listed companies and Hungarian private investors. They form the ownership circle that operates the stock exchange. Yes, but in this proposal, it's with the permission of supervision. In the Capital Markets Act, under the concept of supervision, we find the following:. The Supervisory Board is the Hungarian National Bank, acting in its role in the supervision of the financial intermediary system. So one of the owners of the stock exchange will supervise the economic company it owns. Is that okay with a capital market? I'm just asking, it's a rhetorical question, because I think that your own control of your own owner might be a bit of a concern. So we have a question that I think is the most serious. Although the reason for financing SMEs is that this is very important now, I would rather know the real reason. Who's in the background, what's in the background, what are they up to? 'Cause let's face it, you could have done that in June when we met. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-04-02-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor... I would give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, but for some reason she left the room, so I will now give the floor to Anita Potocskané Kőrösi for a further speech. [[Anita Kőrösi: No! I'm sorry, I just forgot to get it out of the machine.]] The congresswoman does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, There is a stalemate, and the Member has indicated her intention to speak, and I do not wish to be accused of not giving us an opportunity, because she is not in the Chamber, so I do not have the opportunity to give her the opportunity to speak. [[10.30]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-04-02-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The bill submitted yesterday is actually not a surprising step, I think, in this situation. We are well aware that the government is keen to use this opportunity, as my colleague mentioned earlier, and I think that at the same time I should add that this was not a premeditated step, since, before the last week of the elections to the European Parliament, there is no justification for this, or at least no justification for it. So I can pick up where my fellow Member left off. Two weeks ago the process that came to the conclusion that this proposal had been submitted was officially started, as the Hungarian National Bank withdrew the license of the Growth Credit Bank two weeks ago. This is an important step in many ways, but I think the first thing we need to talk about is how this financial institution has come to this point. In February 2015, an era ended, which has largely defined the financial speculation market since the 2000s. The events at the Buda-Cash Broker House have shown us how financial supervision can be fooled over a number of years by sending someone else as a report, as it actually appears in the client's account. So we use double account management, and it is very important to note this, because this has been a process that has been going on for many years, and we have come to the point that, as a result, and as a result, this has been revealed, and Buda-Cash and Quaestor have gone bankrupt, destroying hundreds, thousands of customers. It is important to talk about this, ladies and gentlemen, because the bankruptcy of Buda-Cash has launched an avalanche in the investment market, the effects of which are still felt today. I say this to this day, because people's minimum confidence has also gone from any kind of financial service; they have lost their trust, even the little they have ever had. This is only a problem because raising financial awareness is one of the main tasks of the Hungarian National Bank, and according to its own declaration, it considers its activities of this type to be its main task. On the other hand, the Hungarian National Bank is clearly unable to produce any results, I would add, on this issue, but there is no reason to be surprised, I think there is nothing surprising about this. We are aware that the most important thing for you is to top up the sale of sovereign debt, but I am not sure that these steps, which are now in front of this House, are appropriate steps to facilitate this. We have had a busy time, because I think this period points to a lot of things. It is also a busy period, since recently foreign exchange credit contracts have also been HUFed, after which the Swiss central bank soon released the exchange rate threshold that provided the strength of the franc. This is to be mentioned because it is likely that this event was the one that brought down the Buda-Cash Broker house, and this brought down Quaestor Financial Consultant Zrt., which lost a lot of people's savings. But how could a series of frauds that lasted for about 15 years have actually been revealed? The Magyar Nemzeti Bank always proudly advertises it, the President of the Hungarian National Bank always proudly says, always reports on the success of the PSZEF integrated into the MNB and was able to end the long-standing series of frauds. In fact, what happened was that Buda-Cash reported to the MNB that there was a huge problem, and it was only then that we could find out what really happened at the brokerage house. Why was that a problem? I mentioned earlier that this was a busy period, and the Swiss central bank decision caused this problem, in which the euro-Swiss franc threshold was released, causing huge damage to these companies. I think we should also talk about the fact that, in this scandal, the Ministry, interestingly, knew a day earlier that it needed to get its money out of there, and we are afraid that this bill serves the purpose, no more and no less, of keeping the Hungarian National Bank in control of capital market processes. Unfortunately, it should be added to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank because of its activities so far, that this will not be done to protect customers, but to protect clearly those interest groups, governmental, governmental and economic interests, as we can get used to. I think that this bill cannot be supported either because of the way it is presented or because of its content or because of its expected effects. The LMP will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-02-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-04-02-45	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your patience, because I had to run out for a short time and you would have called me just then. This bill, as we see, will be voted in 40 hours from the date of its submission. You can ask yourself what kind of amendment to the Capital Markets Act could be to be carried across this House in such a rapid way. Well, it's not in the interest of the MPs sitting here, that's for sure. But I'm sure it's in someone's best interest. But let's look at the fact that the Capital Markets Act, the 2001 CXX. Law 330 Article 5a of which will be an additional paragraph of 5a, what is it about, so where do we insert this new rule. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The management of the stock exchange, investment restrictions, is the title of this particular XXXIX. Chapter 1. Why does this chapter bear this title, that the stock exchange is managed, investment restrictions? It bears this title because the stock market, whether you like it or not, has a limited range of activities, based on its role in the business world and in the legal environment. The aim is precisely to prevent him from shaping securities relations as an insider, since he is the one who makes securities available on his website, he cannot do what he can to influence securities trading, prices, returns, and all kinds of things that pose a risk to the outsider. That's why this is XXXIX. In Chapter 3, Section 330, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: In paragraph 3, certain activities are limited. For example: paragraph 5 says:. In the course of the operation of the stock exchange, you can only establish an economic company, or you can only own an economic company which is intended to facilitate the execution of a stock exchange activity or ancillary activity. So when you're done, you've got the securities, and you'll be on the stock market, any group, now, the management and care of this is the stock market's job. What's this 5a? This is (5a) that the stock exchange will be involved in the creation of secondary, tertiary securities, so what is supposed to be, if the quality of the securities is adequate, the stock exchange can market. So what are we talking about here? What my colleague said: she will check herself, because in the stock exchange's activities there is also the check that the owners of securities on the stock exchange are managing, whether their effectiveness is what they guarantee, whether the various prospectuses are real, and that no one can suffer the risks that can otherwise arise from the natural economic environment. The author says that, wow, now this is a revolution with this capital market law amendment, because they're going to help SMEs. Well, I apologize for the fact that, under perfectly functioning social and professional supervision of SMEs, the mass of factor companies, in addition to a healthy, fair banking system, can perfectly help companies to lend their loans, since there is a loan, a claim. [[10.40]] If the government wants to help SMEs by saying that the stock exchange could actually carry out a self-supervised activity, which would otherwise prevent the stock exchange, the process of becoming a stock exchange paper, i.e. a foreigner from the stock exchange, then it is not a matter of wanting to help SMEs. It will certainly be a beautiful headline, that SMEs will be assisted by the government with a new rule, but it certainly is not; not even because we are talking about a professional issue. Let's see, here's the word in this paragraph: securitisation. It's a terrible ugly word, by the way, but anyway, it's what the profession uses. What is this securitisation? This is important because everyone who does not work in this area needs to know that the volume of securitisation in the more developed world generated the 2008 economic crisis between 2001 and 2008. It generated the transfer of synthetic securities into secondary, tertiary securities packages without collateral. And almost the world's economy was destroyed by these secondary third-party securities, which had no collateral, flooded countries where otherwise no such scoundrel activity took place. Of course, you can ask why bankers don't sit in prison for hundreds in the US, because they have succeeded there, as we always agree with the banking system to cover up scoundrels in Hungary. And the politicians there were probably afraid that, oh, they wouldn't fall for it, because supervision didn't do its job; although in the United States it was a private organization and not a state. So, the activity of the stock exchange to carry out securitisation activities is not exactly a matter of the stock exchange; unless the government wants to include the stock exchange in such an activity; unless, with guarantees, loans granted by the family protection action plan that will enter into force from 1 July, which will not have classic collateral on the ownership papers, only the State guarantee, I can assume that the stock exchange will be used to convert this guarantee into some kind of securities, it will push it into the stock exchange company that it is now going to establish with this rule. And what does he do? It involves taking public responsibility into the private economy as a risk. Well, that's a good idea. Come on, think about it. Why is this so urgent? Who in Hungary, whose economic activity cannot function properly without the amendment of the law to be voted on in the 40 hours? I would very much ask the governing parties, the government and the Members to stop thinking that an opposition doesn't think about what this is all about. Let us see that the volume of securitisation in the European Union countries decreased by 42 percent between 2008 and 2014. This is such a great measure, which has not happened in such a short time since there has been a world stock exchange. Why did this happen? First of all, the 2008 crisis shook the world and realized that there was no way to just pack and spread uncovered papers around the world and relocate risks. So they've been more thoughtful. The 42 percent decrease demonstrated the volume of uncovered securities in the world until 2008 in fact. If this is not a discipline-promoting fact for a Hungarian government, then I would actually like to ask what the government is finally doing. It is very important to know, since the concept of securitisation is not known to many people, fortunately it is not part of our daily lives, but it is characterised by two types of activity. One is that someone demands something from someone, it is either not due for payment or it is too late for them, but those who demand, need the amount, then they go to an institution where they can take this claim, i.e. purchase a claim, with collateral. They're securitisation, that's their right, and, in fact, both the claim and the risk are passing through. But there is a synthetic securitisation, where the claim is not actually transferred, so it remains the same demander, who until then, on the other hand, transfers the risk of the security, and it has a price. It's a risk economic activity, and it's someone who makes money out of risk. Would anyone here like to say that we, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, are allowing the stock exchange to create such a company? With the permission of supervision, of course, the Hungarian National Bank and its President are most likely involved in this whole story. They probably came up with this construction in the same room, and they thought that if they put the sentence in a complicated way, no opposition representative would understand it, and it would seem like a serious matter. No, you don't! We understand that there must be a grifter behind this, and there must be someone who has an individual interest in it, and I am sure that the stock exchange would be burdened with a risk that the representatives of the Hungarian State should take, I am almost certain; or perhaps one of Lőrinc Mészáros's new investments somehow needs such an activity, and the stock exchange was found for it. If we look at the Capital Markets Act, where support for SMEs is originally defined as a target group in the explanatory memorandum, I apologise for this, neither the stock market nor the capital market law need to be amended in any way. There are classic beautiful tools to achieve this, and such a rascal, who has not been explained by anyone, really understood by no one, and the interest group, which is sure to be in the crosshairs of this, has no representative in this House who would vote for this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-02-46	Dear Parliament, We will continue to work with further speeches from its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2019-04-02-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The question for us, too, is that cui bono, cui prodest, whose interest it is to make this quick change. After all, neither the explanatory statement nor the text of the law, as my fellow Members have repeatedly referred to it, is not clear what this initiative is for. I read in the paper a letter from the Secretary of State, who in committee justified the haste that banks can issue such papers from 1 January, and I would like to resolve this issue quickly so that too complicated products cannot be put on the market by banks. That is why they need to quickly resolve the need to have a control over this activity. But if we accept it in 48 hours, then what have they been doing in the last quarter? If, as of 1 January, this is such a problem and you want to pay such attention to this process, you have not paid attention to it for three months, and now you suddenly wake up and have to solve it within 48 hours, because since 1 January, banks have been able to issue such securities. So the argument somehow doesn't add up from wherever you look at it, either from the perspective that Andrea Varga-Damm spoke from, or from a different direction. Neither the wording of the law nor the wording of the amendment nor the justification gives a clear answer to why, now, why in such a form, why in such a haste, at this rate, this rule must be adopted. It is true, then, that the question arises of whose interest it is in, if it is not clear, transparent, it is not clear about its intention in this regard to the government or the Member who presented it. This is particularly true if the MNB emerges as a customer behind this initiative. Just recently, a report by the European Central Bank has been published in which it expresses its concern about the activities of the Hungarian National Bank, in particular as regards its share in the stock exchange or its various programmes. In Hungarian, not only do we look at or look at this whole process with concern, which has taken place in recent years with the activities and direction of President Matolcsy, but the European Central Bank also constantly expresses concerns and criticisms. [[10.50]] The other question, if I may refer to it, is that the Secretary of State may be able to answer it - I may be misinterpreting it, but the detailed explanation is 1. As a result, the Bank may acquire a stake in an existing company. This does not necessarily come from the text of the law, and I read it at first reading as if it could participate in the formation and operation of new companies. This may be merely a misunderstanding, but here in the explanatory statement it is clear that the acquisition of ownership in such a company can, of course, be interpreted as referring only to it and only to it again; if I were to get a clarification from the Secretary of State in this, I would thank you, otherwise in the end we would really assume that there are companies that might want to join with a small capital to help. In English: we also have concerns, doubts. It is not clear, it is not clear either the rush, the form or the content, therefore the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction will also not support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-04-02-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-02-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The opposition representatives before me have already torn apart the professional part, why this is so urgent, and how they can be a setback and pitfall to this bill. I would rather point out with a single piece of news that this should be included in the parliamentary record for posterity, the political and economic conditions under which this law will be implemented according to your intentions, and who, in fact, is the President of the Central Bank who can actually conduct this whole construction, or who will rise up behind the whole construction. This news is about a few days ago that the government fund manager could lose HUF 7 billion by falling for the bank owned by György Matolcsy's cousin. That's the news. For the 100% state-owned Széchenyi Capital Fund Manager Zrt., these are us, because the property of the Hungarian state was stuck 7 billion HUF in the NHB bank on 14 March, which was recently ordered to be wound up. By the way, this bank was owned by György Matolcsy's cousin, and György Matolcsy's son had investments in this bank. What is happening to our money is that the central bank's son and cousin's financial institution is failing, and this financial institution doesn't even undertake to completely compensate everyone, because the rest of the news says that the victims will be compensated up to a certain amount, and that all the others will obviously go into the window. Therefore, on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungarian public money is entrusted to such people as György Matolcsy, who, in principle, should have the task of managing inflation as the most important task of the President of the Central Bank. He doesn't care about inflation, but he doesn't care how high prices have been in Hungary in the last six months, but instead he doesn't care about it. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition will not support this proposal, even the fact that here there are quite amazing abuses and mugs that resemble the Moricz Zsarátnó settlement.
u2019-04-02-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-04-02-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There were really extensive technical analyses and speculations about this bill as to what it might be about. That's what we've been speculating about since yesterday. For those of you who may not know what the exceptional procedure means, I'd like to tell you what this looks like in case they follow the mediation. The exceptional procedure seems to be that you presented this very complicated bill on April 1st as a bad joke, as a April joke, and the timetable is that the TAB discussed yesterday, the consolidated debate takes place today, the decision on the summary amendment proposal will take place today, and the final vote will also take place today. So, within 40 hours, they pushed this very complicated proposal. Why do I say it's complicated? I mean, we're trying to look at his background, and we're trying to figure out why you're asking for this exceptional procedure. That is what we asked at yesterday's meeting of the Legislative Committee, where Minister of State said and again a very important moment, because sometimes they answer our questions in at least one sentence - "To carry out securitisation, the opportunity has been open since January, so we now had to push this bill in with such an exceptional procedure. There are two options. One is that it took roughly three months to draft this very complicated bill, and now the moment has come to be pushed in with this exceptional procedure at the last minute. It took the apparatus three months to work on this complicated bill that I'd like to show the cameras. [[He's showing it to me.]] This consists of a single paragraph, two sentences of general justification and three sentences of detailed justification. So this job took three months. This is one of the options, and here you are already asking questions about what kind of work you can have if you have been able to do this in three months. The other option is that you are not telling the truth, and now for some reason you have had to push this bill quickly, and then you start to think about it, and here you have been speculating among the opposition representatives about the root cause of this bill, which had to be put in place so quickly. And then the question arises, to see what news there is. One of the news is the fall of the Growth Credit Bank, which is linked to György Matolcsy, where the state is also suffering serious damage and the Hungarian taxpayers, because it is swimming billions of forints into nothing and certainly will not be responsible. Maybe that's why we had to do this. Then the other, my colleague, Andrea Varga-Damm, said that you will refer to how much you support SMEs. Helping SMEs can also be a secret password, such as replacing the name of Lőrinc Mészáros with the name of the SME, because it may be necessary to help Lőrinc Mészáros. After all, if you consider that Lőrinc Mészáros wants to buy, say, a mobile service provider or buy, say, Budapest Bank, then it would be understandable that, let's say, securitisation uses or doesn't work for him, because both are services where the receivables on the part of the service provider, either at a mobile service provider or at the bank, are very welcome to apply securitisation in these transactions, as it is also a guarantee for the investor, if there are several small loans, because it is more secure that these amounts may be made. So maybe that's the reason. We don't know. And then there could be a reason, by the way, because when is securitisation used? If someone wants to go to international markets and try to make the company or the security they want to take out as good as possible. It may also be that we have come to the point that Lőrinc Mészáros, the richest man in the country, who is now a major businessman in the world, thinks that he might want to step out of the international markets. I'm not sure that's the reason. The problem is that you bring in a bill in here with an exceptional procedure, you ask Members of Parliament to vote, but they don't say anything about it, they hide the real intention. This is not only a deception of Members of Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, but also of the Government, but also of the voters, because voters vote in every vote, they entrust politicians, you and us, to represent their interests. Those sitting behind the Secretary of State now represent around 2.5 million Hungarian voters in this House. You are deceiving these 2.5 million Hungarian citizens, and you are also deceiving those who voted for you, because they have not put you in this House either so that you can please your friends, relatives, friends, and who knows what kind of dark business you are in, trying to make laws or to make laws in such a way that it is not in the best interests of the country. [[11.00]] But if it's for the good of this country, then you should tell me, but you won't tell me. So you're keeping secrets. And if you're keeping secrets, you've got something to hide. If he's got something to hide, he's trying to fool everyone. Therefore, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will never participate in voting in legislative proposals where you keep secrets, where you have secrets, and try to cover up dark operations with these secrets. So we will not support your proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-04-02-52	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Here you go.
u2019-04-02-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One more question occurred to me, in the closing words, that Mr. Secretary of State might be able to comment on this. Does this proposal have anything to do with the National Bank's 330-point package? After all, perhaps one point is that the Hungarian National Bank intends to buy corporate bonds in order to provide capital to businesses. Here, the communication of the various central bank governors and vice-presidents included around 100-150 companies or 50-60 companies that could be able to issue a larger amount of bonds. And there the vice-president of the Central Bank also stated in an interview that he did not have the skills, the ability, the knowledge of these companies to carry out such bond issues, so in Hungarian: speed and the appearance of the law amendment could be linked to such another national bank initiative? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-04-02-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no further speeches have been made, the consolidated debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer... [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-04-02-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I would like to try, as usual, to reflect strictly on matters within and related to the proposed bill. It's nothing more than an extended sentence bill, so it's nothing more than that, and you can read it for a very long time, but it means the same thing. It has a double purpose, by the way. It is not about securitisation, so it is not about allowing or creating securitisation as an institution, because it already exists in the current legislative environment. The aim of this is, on the one hand, to avoid that this securitisation, if it starts, will lead to wild game drives that we experienced globally in the world ten years ago, that completely worthless devices have been packed into valuable assets. It therefore provides for the establishment of an advisory, professional organisation within the stock exchange, which can provide appropriate standards and advice to ensure that this does not occur, thereby promoting investor confidence and confidence in general that should be maintained and even increased in relation to the financial intermediary system. At the same time, it also has an investment incentive effect, as investors operate in a way that provides predictability, reliability, and where they can actually buy assets, instruments that they believe in. So, on the one hand, it provides a security and, on the other, a market-enhancing effect. Who will appear here at the investor level in the Hungarian bond market if this is finally launched: anyone has the right to appear here. Maybe even the question of who's in charge here. The central bank's supervision, financial and capital market supervision is not unique, and it is not only typical of Hungary, it is a common practice in many countries around the world. So I don't see any particular maladministration in this. That's all I wanted in response. [[Attila Mesterházy's intervention.]] I thank you for your attention, and I ask you to accept the bill. Thank you very much. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches, that's it?]]
u2019-04-02-56	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, It's 11:05. I'm taking a break for 12 hours and 30 minutes. So the Parliament will continue its work with decisions at the earliest from 12:30 a.m. Thank you very much for your attention. (Sunning: 11.05 12.37 President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Dr. István Tiba and György Szilágyi)
u2019-04-02-57	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. Timea Szabó, Dr. Zita Gurmai, Ágnes Kunhalmi, Bence Tordai and Dr. Bernadett Wind wears a white T-shirt bearing the photo of János Pócs and the inscription "János Pócs resign!"]] I salute my fellow Members. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, CXX of 2001 on the capital market follows a series of steps. T/5565. Final vote of bill No 1. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/5565. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 116 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstentions. The T4358 of the Convention on the Mutual Protection of classified information between Hungary and Romania follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Mr President, my card is invalid! I need a card.]] What did you vote for? Yes or no? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I wish I had known, but no.]] He voted no. Thank you very much. We'll add that then. Thank you very much. Does it work now? [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Agnes Kunhalmi: It doesn't work!]] It's not working. I'm asking you to take this into account. T4358/6. T4358/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T4358/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly's summary amendment proposal with 164 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions... I ask Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, her machine works. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I got a card, Mr. President.]] He got a card, so it's okay. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T4358/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 172 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is T/5243 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5243/10. T/5243/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of amendment No 5. That's what we'll decide first. Proposal for amendment No 5 is the motion of Members Ádám Steinmetz and György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 116 votes against and no abstentions. [[12.40]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/5243/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 149 votes in favour, 17 against and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/5243/13. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 151 votes to 15, with 6 abstentions. Next up is the T/5220 on the 2019 budget of the Television Film Mecenature. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/5220. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 118 votes in favour, 15 against and 40 abstentions. Next up is T/5234 on the amendment of certain laws on financial matters. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5234/5. T/5234/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2, the Dialogue initiated a separate vote on points 2 and 5 of the summary amendment proposal, the MSZP initiated a separate vote on points 2 and 5 of the summary amendment proposal. First we decide on these, then we decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of dialogue and point 2 of the MSZP's request for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/5234/5. Point 2 of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 165 votes in favour, 6 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 5 of the draft amending proposal requested by the MSZP to vote separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/5234/5. Point 5 of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 143 votes in favour, 25 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/5234/5. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, 16 against and 34 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/5234/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 127 votes in favour, 16 against and 29 abstentions. Next up is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. Act and LIII of 2006 on the acceleration and simplification of the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy. T/5239. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5239/5. T/5239/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/5239/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes in favour, 22 against and 33 abstentions. [[12.50]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/5239/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 118 votes in favour, 28 against and 27 abstentions. Next up is T/5240 on the amendment of certain climate policy laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5240/6. T/5240/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 2 tabled by Mr Bertalan Tóth and Mr László Varga. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 20 votes in favour, 119 against and 34 abstentions. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/5240/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 15 against and 33 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/5240/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 124 votes in favour, 8 against and 41 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/5354 for Hungarian families belonging to the community of the European Union by MEP Ferenc Gyurcsány, DK, and his fellow Members. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 28 votes in favour, 119 against and 25 abstentions. I ask you, you will be listed in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, and its fellow Members, with the title "The "Children, Family, Accommodation," H/5359. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not take the proposal for a resolution into consideration by 49 votes in favour, 117 against and 5 abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled "The measures necessary for the practical implementation of the principle of equal pay for equal work by Mr Péter Jakab," H/4782. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 55 votes in favour, 114 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by the right representatives of Adam Mirkóczki and Andrea Varga-Damm, T/5339. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 53 votes in favour, 112 against and 4 abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled "The Hungarian Quota for Workers" by Mr János Stummer, Jobbikos, T/5133. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 33 votes in favour, 118 against and 18 abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled "The completion of the national security screening of non-Hungarian citizens holding a document to stay in Hungary" by Mr.Adám Mirkóczki Jobbikós, H/5043. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in series by 43 votes in favour, 124 against and 2 abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled "Szabó Timea, Dialogue, Congresswoman" "In support of childbearing," H/4992. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of 28 votes in favour, 116 against and 25 abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by Lóránt Keresztes, LMP, Mr LMP, and his fellow Members, in order to release the public utility tax in the water sector CLXVIII of 2012 on the tax on public utility lines. T/5298. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 52 votes in favour, 115 against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. We've reached the end of the decisions. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] [[13.00]] With all due respect, my fellow Members, if you do not participate in this work, please step out into the corridor. [[The president's ringing several times. It's constant noise.]] Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who do not participate in Parliament's work, to come out into the corridor. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, from the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-02-58	Mr President, Dear House, Since the Fidesz-KDNP has decided that there will be a long parliamentary break until the elections to the European Parliament, it is worth summing up the points at which we were able to agree on on a demographic and demographic issue. After all, it is clear that Hungary has experienced a catastrophic situation, the number of live births has unfortunately fallen again compared to the period a year ago, and the temporary increase in fertility rates has fallen again, falling from 1,5 to 1.44. So while the fewer women of childbearing age in this country are compatriots, the proportion of children they want and undertake has unfortunately decreased compared to a year ago. This means a population disaster, a demographic winter, and it can clearly be said that although the low point was 1,23 fertility rates in 2011, we have managed to move a little further from here, very, very far, many decades of joint work from succeeding at least in preserving the current number of Hungarians in some way. Another problem is that many are only in their mid-30s, and more and more are taking on their first children over 40. In such cases, there is a greater likelihood that the second or third child will no longer be born, even if it is a desired Hungarian child. We also need to see that over the last two decades, based on the relevant statistics of the HCSO, the fertility of those with the lowest education has typically increased, and the average age of those with eight grades at the birth of their first child is essentially unchanged, virtually no difference. The trend that has also been observed since 2004 is that mothers typically undertake their first child at the highest age in Budapest. Here, the period of 30-34 years is also being extended. At the same time, unfortunately, the number and number of women who do not have children are increasing, since less than 9 percent of women born in 1963 were childless at the age of 45, but 27 percent of women born in 1980 are not expected to have children by the age of 45 if the current demographic trends continue. We must also say that the population explosion is indeed seen in North-East, North- and East-Hungary, influenced by some local factors among women with a maximum of 8 generalities, while this explosion occurred despite the fact that the number of women with a maximum of 8 grades fell from 473,000 to 363 thousand between 2011 and 2016. It can be seen that we are no longer talking about the period of Balliberal economic terrorist acts, but we are talking about the last decade, and trends in this area should at least be investigated. You can see, in summary, that more and more people are childless. Since the turn of the millennium, the proportion of childless people has increased from 8 percent to 16 percent, and from 78 percent to 67 percent, who are able to take on the second child after the first one, I would like to take on, as it can be seen that Hungary has developed an economic environment where the family support system exists. Moreover, the elements of this are typically accompanied by a parliamentary consensus, not just a pro-government one. On the other hand, the Government of Hungary is typically only able to favour or benefit lucky social groups, and those young Hungarians who could only imagine their lives in a flat because they cannot afford their own property. Those who collected it with state-supported housing savings, let's say, the part of themselves needed for the CSOK in order to get their lives started. Children, and those who are in a simple line, face amazing difficulties not only because of the 27 percent VAT content, which still affects the majority of basic foods, which, as a tax for the poor, is the most difficult in the ranks, but also because the tax content of child rearing products is the highest in Hungary throughout Europe. At least if it were to survive, it would be cynical for the government to talk about a demographic turnaround. Jobbik has submitted a package of proposals, and has put its life programme for improvement on the table. We expect Fidesz-KDNP to place these issues in the highest priority during its months with the campaign, to give meaningful answers to the problems we have identified, because our goal, the Hungarian survival, is common, and the Hungarian future cannot be part of their market deals, it is more important than anything else. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-02-59	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group, has applied for a post- Agenda speech:.. Will South and Internal Somogy be the loser of the budget again? Or when will the government finally hear that the periphery of South Transdanubia is calling for help? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-02-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I invite my fellow Members to a region for non-governmental puppies, a narrower pátria, which is exactly as terra incognita for many of my fellow Members sitting in the pro-government benches as it was, let us say, during Livingstone, Internal Africa for the people of London cafes hungry for exoticity. Well, this is the region, Somogyország, where the number of registered job seekers is 15,000. This is overall more in this 300,000 county than in the three counties of Western Hungary inhabited by 1 million souls. If we go further south, we look at the parts south of Kaposvár, we see that Barcsi, Nagyatádi or even in the district of Csurgo, government propaganda or not, but unemployment is 20 percent. [[13.10]] These are the settlements, these small villages, which make up the majority of the constituencies here, where there is no doctor, no school, and in many cases there is no shop. However, I have to adorn myself with foreign feathers, and apply the adjectives of Gábor Balogh, an excellent journalist of the Alfa news: there are a few Döbördi in every village, who have descended on the fat of their own community, and, if appropriate, act like our fellow Member Pócs, their workers will be locked in a boiler without skrupulus. So, we live in this country, and the quality of life of the people living here will not be better if the central government doesn't pay attention. Let's see what promises have been made to the people of South Somogy or Southwest Baranya in connection with the renovation of Route 6. In April 2013, it was almost six years ago that a government meeting took place in the small, not even 500 inhabitants of Baranya County, where the Prime Minister promised, almost squeezed the promise from the minister leading the Ministry of National Development, that the highway would reach Barcs by 2018. For Barcs, so for South Somogy, the normal connection to Baranya County is vital. If there is not a very rapid improvement and progress on this issue, then this region will be irreparably declining, and what we are now seeing will be: the demographic erosion that my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Karpat, was talking about here, and what is particularly affecting these areas, will become irreversible. There will be no capital investment here, and it will be a dream to talk about any integration into the labour market among the people who live here. I've just outlined the sad statistical numbers we have. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, these tiny villages, which are located here, are becoming even more isolated, spontaneous segregation is becoming irreversible, and the small settlements here are becoming increasingly ethnically homogeneous. There's no turning back from this situation. For if a person, even if previously integrated, is affected by this segregation in such a cumulatively disadvantaged settlement, a dissimilation process may also be observed. And if those whose social mobility is greater leave, and they leave, because if we look at the proportion of graduates in the Somogy 2nd constituency, so that includes Internal and South Somogy, we can see that this is only one third of the national level. What does that mean? Anyone who lives and moves, who is even a little agile, and who can, unfortunately, leave this beautiful landscape, must, but must leave. And if these promises, such as the promises of road construction, which I say again, were promised by Viktor Orbán in 2013, there will be nothing, and what was confirmed by Secretary General Fónagy on 27 October 2014 in answer to a question at that time, then the fate of this region will be sealed. Government Lords! Money resources shouldn't be stolen. There was one of you who, by the way, said that Viktor, notice that these mobsters, when they were talking about how to steal resources for the countryside, he broke the law of silence of the orange cartel, the omerta, and you can see what has become, say, the fate of Congressman Tiffan. He's not here anymore! We will pay great attention to the fact that this region will receive the budget for the following year, and we will be counting these promises on you every single time because the people of South Somogy deserve more. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-02-61	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. Member Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meeting speech: how credible is Fidesz policy? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-02-62	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Sopron is full and deserves more. In the campaign of the parliamentary elections in 2018, this concise slogan, which accurately portrayed the desperate situation of Sopron, was the decisive message of my campaign. This slogan continues to apply to this city worthy of a better fate, since neither the Fidesz city administration nor the government is doing anything to make Sopron, the citizens of this more beautiful city of citizens, feel the ease of living and to deal with the problems arising from internal migration. I ask the question here is that the current regent Fidesz Sopron city leadership, for example, has signalled to the government or the Ministry of the Interior that our beloved city has become completely unlivable because of overpopulation. Or they believe only the statistics, which have shown a decrease just recently, and has found only 58,000 permanent residents in Sopron, while according to the only sane estimate, at least twice the population, i.e. 120-130 thousand people live in Sopron in a way of life because of internal migration. The city's gone completely insane. There is no way to travel, no service in this old town is prepared for this crowd. In addition, crime has increased to such an extent, according to the public's feedback, that we need a whole new law enforcement strategy here in the city. Of course, as mentioned in Jobbik's municipal election programme in Sopron, the first step would be to double the number of police officers immediately, and not, as is currently happening, to lead the Sopron police to the southern border by the fence, where Jobbik suggests that the police should have nothing to do with it, as we must set up border guards according to Jobbik. Crimes have spread in our beloved city of Sopron, such as drug trafficking and prostitution, and cooperation with Austrian criminal circles is increasing, thanks to the Schengen border. People are scared. Sopron is getting worse. If someone is threatened with a knife in an entertainment unit, then the police won't even look into it as soon as it gets to me, worried Sopron people tell me. The problems of the Sopron region are also highlighted nationally. After all, as Géza Pongó, Secretary General of the Independent Police Union, said, the police are disarmed nationwide because of the low salary and the pension taken, and the police career model has not fulfilled its expectations, and one of the three counties of Győr-Moson-Sopron is one of the counties from which they have indicated that there is no mobile patrol, so the police leaders in these places are struggling with redeployment. The situation is therefore very serious both nationally and locally, and immediate and decisive action is needed against internal migration. Jobbik, as a socially sensitive national party, is also fighting in the European Parliament elections for the purpose of catching up wages so that those also unfortunate East Hungarians do not have to leave their homes so that everyone can finally thrive in their homeland. Anyone who wants Sopron to be a civil and orderly city again, therefore support Jobbik in the elections to the European Parliament on 26 May, because Fidesz' irresponsible policy wants to drive our country out of the European Union, which, in our case, would mean closing Western borders and eliminating resources for our country and the Sopron region. It is therefore a question of Bérunio or the Soviet Union. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-02-63	Thank you, Congressman Brenner Koloman. Speaking after the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group also applied for a speech: Hungarian gardeners in the shadow of Giga's investment? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-02-64	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I regret that no one on the government's part has waited for this statement after the agenda. In addition, this promises to be a speech of a kind where I would like to take account of the government in an attacking manner, and there is no politicalization in what I want to say. I would rather ask questions, which I am not primarily looking forward to, but are concerned with the gardening sector. I am thinking of farmers here, but even suppliers, processors. [[13.20]] It happened that the other day a great announcement came from Minister István Nagy, that a large gardening project was coming into the Mosonmagyaróvár-Bezenye-Hegyeshalom area worth HUF 330 billion, which should be welcomed in the first round, as this could certainly mean progress in the sad process of repressing the Hungarian fruit gardening, and it might stop it or even reverse it. However, this announcement is overshadowed by the fact that there was no consultation with the Hungarian Interprofessional Organisation for Vegetables and FruitVeB. I can only think of this because an attacking press statement has been made on the news, which is strange because so far with the government, I can say that the organization has been operating in very cooperation and strengthening communication with each other, so this is a cause for serious concern, and it is not possible to go without attention, because this German gardening giga project can really turn the Hungarian relations upside down. There is this particular area we are talking about; who might not know his history, I would recall in a few sentences. Now, perhaps more than 15 years ago, a troubled investment company that bought this land appeared. There were American entrepreneurs here at the time, let's say they were just Indians, who used such a casino investment project to appeal to the competent government and the Hungarian state; then there were Swiss, German and Austrian investors starting from Michael Jackson's father. The point was that the state took out hundreds of hectares of land, i.e. in the present sense of non-farming land, and as a rented property, then a crafty lawyer persuaded some farmers in the area... and even took out area allowances for an otherwise unused area. This has, of course, been prosecuted since then, but this is also due to the fact that I filed a complaint. Well, that's the history, and I wouldn't want to put that in the hands of the current government, because it's a long way back. However, it clearly shows that this announcement came in response to a very complicated case with a difficult background, in fact as a lifeline, in this form it would have been even more likely to be a kind of prior consultation with both the profession and the people in the region. For example, those who are interested in the production of fruit vegetables are concerned about this investment and are concerned about their own position on the market. It is also difficult to understand at this stage that the project is supposed to create 5,000 new jobs in the area where this is a daily problem. My fellow Member Brenner Koloman has already raised similar problems with Sopron, so that the shortage of labour has grown to a scale that can only be dealt with by encouraging very serious internal migration by settlements and companies. Once again, this demand for another 5,000 jobs assumes that a small town will be created there, and the plans for this are already superficial, but we have been able to get to know them; this, too, rightly scares the people living in the area, and that is why proper preparation, information and consultation could have been expected. So I would like to have the guarantees from the minister, the government, at least orally, that this investment will not mean that the Germans are pushing Hungarians out of their current narrow markets by virtue of their capital power. There is also a considerable imbalance between the size of the investment and its processing and storage capacity. So it is likely that they will not only process their own fruit and vegetables; where will they buy them, what markets are these products intended for? Therefore, in a case like this, especially if public money could be used for investors, it would have been appropriate to lay down these guarantees and to inform the operators in the sector about them. So with this speech, that would have been my intention to get the government to inform everyone involved as quickly as possible in detail. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-02-65	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Magyar. Dear Parliament, Member István Apáti applied for a post-meeting speech. Are the people of Mátészalka and Ringers considered to be equal citizens? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-02-66	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, I had to ask this somewhat bitter question because, for many decades, we have felt, where there are Balliberal governments, and even during the Fidesz government, that we are multi-level citizens of this country, as people living in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, and most of the people living in the Eastern Ends, in the Satmár region, in the region of Mátészalka and Csenger, unfortunately, the feeling that we are fulfilling the same obligations, that we are subject to the same laws, that we are paid the same tax, and that small investments and small developments are undeniable, but when large, comprehensive investments and developments are needed, we see that there is not enough lobbying power for the region, that there is not sufficient interest-bearing capacity, and that in the context of serious investments, we are always pushed back, if we feel discriminated and discriminated against. Without the need for completeness, I would like to give you some specific examples so that my words do not seem too general. I'm about to get to health care. Whether the rescue service in Mátészalka needs serious improvement, I will constantly submit proposals for this in the debate on the budget law year after year, but they will also be swept down by the government representatives of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, even though some ten million forints could either renovate existing emergency services, or even run for new ambulances, emergency rescuers, and even the region would deserve the purchase of an early-born rescue, as we are talking about a very large area of attraction in the case of the hospital in Mátészalka. Compared to this, there is a shortage of doctors and staff, which is obviously not the fault of the staff. With all due respect, they still carry the health problems in the area under such difficult circumstances. In addition, I asked for it to be resolved several times with only a large amount of two million euros, but it was also swept off the table to obtain modern ultrasound, CT scan and MRI equipment, and to obtain modern eye and bowel diagnostic equipment, since the area is well above the national average for malignant cancer diseases. And since we would, in principle, be equal citizens of the same rank in this country, there should not be a need to travel to Nyíregyháza, Debrecen, Budapest, of a man of Mátészalka or a bell, to conduct an investigation that could otherwise be carried out locally, if there were sufficient equipment, political goodwill and will. We are very pleased that the hospital in Kisvárda has one of the state-of-the-art MRI equipment in the country, but the Mátészalkai deserve the same. Then there is the question of the industrial park for both Csenger and Matthewszalka. We see in Csenger that these areas have remained in the most pasture-ploughing area, which is a pleasure from an agricultural point of view, but the development of the industrial park seems to be waiting for itself; even the construction of the bike road is barely stalling. The same is true for the expansion of the Mátészalka industrial park; promises continue to be made, but very, very few of them will be realised. Then I left two Prime Minister's promises to the end, which I will repeat until, on the one hand, the voters give me the opportunity to do so and, on the other hand, until it is implemented. Both promises are linked to the inauguration of the Csengeri District School on 4 May 2017, when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made a strong promise in the late morning to build both the prison in Bell and the M49 road. As regards the M49, a few months earlier, at the end of 2016, towards the end of the Romanian election campaign, he also made a firm promise in Szatmárnemeti. Compared to this, it seems that there will be nothing from the prison in Bell, as although the contractor has been selected for all prison constructions, these resources are not available for unknown reasons. It seems that in the very distant future, this area was once again pushed back from the perspective of the prison development project. And there is the question of the M49 route, which has been promised for at least 20 years. I was still working on Kocsord as a sub-notary when it was heard years before, and there almost every year that it will be built, it will be built now, compared to this, no one meter of road was built. In recent days, we have read the good news that a contract worth 1.5 billion forints was concluded for the preparation of the plans. I am very happy about this, but I am afraid that if we do not step on the gas and do not work together for the sake of the region, there will not be enough interest in this much better and better fate-worthy area, we will have to wait long years and decades to build this path. Once again, as the luckier part of the country deserves it, it deserves it from the West Transdanubia, it deserves it at last Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, especially the area around Mátészalka and Chenger. I'm asking everyone for proper support. Thank you very much. [[13.30]]
u2019-04-02-67	Thank you very much, Congressman István Apáti. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró applied for a post-meeting speech:. Who will we let near our children? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-04-02-68	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My last proposal for a resolution caused quite a storm, especially among homosexuals, who had a whole war against me, but Momentum, LMP and Dialogue didn't come up with any different adjectives for me or my proposal. Yet, the Fundamental Law guarantees children the right to protection and care necessary for adequate physical, mental and moral development. I would just like to enforce this when, in a proposal for a decision, I initiated the introduction of a quality limit for the activities of non-governmental organisations in the field of sexual education. The national Public Education Act also regulates the question of who can participate in the sexual education of children. The teacher's specific task is to ensure and make every possible effort to improve and protect the physical and mental health of children. You can also involve civilian professionals. There are different EMMI regulations that open this issue further, but it is the biology teachers who play an important role in this, as well as health teachers who can hold thematic parental meetings on this subject. The National Basics Plan also concerns this topic, and fortunately, the education of family life has now been included as mandatory content in the National Basics Plan. They also touch on this issue in schools. So we see that this issue is concerned both at the statutory, legislative, regulatory level and at the level of the National Basics Plan, and that very strict requirements must be met by those who talk to children about such matters and participate in their information. Obviously, this is also a topic in which other professionals can be involved. I would like to give you a positive example of information on drug use, where they already have a ministerial license about who can participate in talking to children about drug use. This is not a coincidence, because if this criterion were not, there could be organisations in schools without necks that would promote, for example, drug use, which, let's say, were created to represent drug addicts, so that they could be close to our children in educational institutions. On the basis of this example, the Hungarian Movement initiates the fact that, in relation to sexual education, civil society organisations which have neither a pedagogical degree nor a sexual education, which have a well-confirmed knowledge, and which have not been scientifically supported, can, for example, represent homosexual people, be allowed to engage in propaganda steel occupations in educational institutions for children. On scientific matters, I generally do not consider it fortunate for politics to take a position. However, since I have now received an attack on this proposal, I am forced to bring scientific arguments into the debate and to refer to Dr. András Falus as an academic geneticist. The sentence and the few lines that he said in his lecture at the University of All-Knowledge highlight why this proposal is necessary and that this is accepted by the Parliament. I quote Dr. András Falus: "There are genes predisposing to homosexuality, which are clearly proven to exist today. There are also unherited effects, such as the environment, family effects, which have a significant impact on the expression of homosexuality. The same can be said for almost all other properties: the existence of a genetic background means an increased tendency and not destiny. This scientific argument therefore supports the fact that it doesn't matter what environment, what sexual culture our children are growing up in. I feel that the fact that these sentences were not spoken by me as a party politician, not by me as a politician, but by an academic geneticist confirms the validity of the proposal. Yes, it is necessary to control the state, the ministry, the organizations involved in the sexual education of children. I trust you will support our proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-02-69	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Dear Parliament, Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a post-scheduled speech with the title of the remains of István Happy Sándor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-02-70	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to report on an important matter beyond party policy. In order to begin with this, in order to do so, allow me first to quote a few moments from the life of the monk István Happy István Salesian martyrs. István Sándor was born in Szolnok on 26 October 1914. His father was an MÁV assistant worker. In 1931, after finishing the metal school, he settled as a metal player, and in 1936 he entered the salesian order, and in 1946 he took an oath as a monk brother. From 1940 to 49, he worked as a printer at the Salesian printer in Crab Palota, but between 1941 and 45 he served as a news soldier in the army with minor interruptions. In 1942 he was enlisted in the army as a brother of salesian. He also served as a news anchor and telegraphist in the world war wars in Southern Hungary, Transylvania, Highlands and even in the Don turn. He was decorated for his brave conduct. After the defeat of the Don, his team was gradually drawn west, so the war ended in Germany, where he was captured in 1944. After his release, he led young workers in the Catholic Youth Organization from 1946. István Sándor's residence and main area of operation was the Clarisseum in Újpesten. This is a building designed by Miklós Ybl next to the road overpass connecting Újpestt to Rákospalota. Until the spring of 1950, the Salesian house and the schoolchildren of the poorest families had been in this building, with a large park, a Boy Scout's Home, a house, and even a printing building. In 1949, István Sándor became sacristy. He was in close contact with the young workers who had been called to serve in the army to the Blue Vovos. He also had a lively relationship with his group during the military period by letter. As we know, in 1950, along with the other orders, the operation of the salesian order was banned. At the end of February 1951, István Sándor became aware of some of his illegal activities. To avoid arrest, István Kiss became an alias employee of the Persil factory and lived unannounced in the apartment of Tibor Dániel. He also maintained his relationships through him in part. At that time, he organized excursions, meetings in private homes, a school of faith, and also built a community for young people who were forced to join him in his obsessive bond. He was arrested in July 1952. The Budapest Court of Justice negotiated the case on 28 October 1952, and its conference held on 30 October 1952 rejected the petition for pardon of the sentenced to death by rope. He was beaten up several times in prison, but they couldn't force him to confess. After weeks of interrogation, nine ÁVH party soldiers, five Catholic priests, two civilians, including a 15-year-old high school girl, were brought to the court-martial led by Béla Kovács. The Budapest Court of Justice ruled in secret closed trial: the high school girl received eight years; four of them, including István Sándor, were sentenced to death by rope; the others were sentenced to 5-15 years in prison, i.e. 125 years in total. On June 8, 1953, Brother István Sándor, with integrity, finished his meaningful life on a gallows. The Court of Justice of the Diocese has already started the procedure of initiation and initiation after 90, and on 19 October 2013, István Sándor was made happy in Budapest, in the square before St. Stephen's Basilica. It is now a new development that the Don Bosco Salesias reported on 27 March that, as a result of a lengthy preparation and research work, they successfully exhumed and identified the relics and remains of the martyred Salesian monk who was sentenced in the conceptual trial, and then killed and buried in an unmarked grave in 1953. [[13.40]] It is important to mention the names of the organisations and persons involved in the research. In addition to the Salézi Order and the Saléz Youth Movement, the Deputy Prime Minister's Cabinet, the National Heritage Institute, the National Remembrance Committee, the Institute of Genetic Experts of the Department of Criminal Justice of the National Expert &amp; Research Centre, Márton Csány, historian Judit Bertáné Varga, Chief Justice Counselor Éva Susa, Head of Research and, without the need for completeness, Eszter Dudás is also a forensic anthropologist and genetic expert. Based on archival research and contemporary documents, it is logical to conclude that the site number 301 of the New Cemetery of Crab Cross has to be located in the tomb number 37. They also found six persons during the excavation of the tomb in November 2018. The experts asked identified him from a DNA sample from a 63-year-old letter stamp and his brother's DNA sample, and they also identified him without a doubt. I think it is very important in the lives of the Hungarian Church, the Salézi Order and the entire Hungarian society that we have now found the relics, the remains of one of the patron saints of Hungarian youth, and we hope that the respect of István Sándor will be further strengthened in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-02-71	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 27 May 2019. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed.
