u2019-03-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 7th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and notary György Lukács will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda; then from 12:15 to 13:45 a.m. to about 13:45 a.m. to approximately 14:45 a.m. to the hour of immediate questions and answers; finally, with speeches after the agenda, we will close the session of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, Member of the Democratic Coalition, applied for a pre-meeting speech: In war, fewer children are born, and the country is at war with the title Ferenc Gyurcsány 7+1. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-11-1	Thank you very much. Dear House, In times of war, fewer children are born, and this country seems to be at war because every year there are fewer children. No wonder you're at war. They are at war with Europe, they are at war with our poor fellow citizens, they are at war with workers, they are at war with civil servants. You're fighting a war against the country, and the losers of this war are the children, the families. We, representatives of the Hungarians in Europe [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This is why we announced our seven-point program and plan for the Hungarian families. Imagine an ordinary Hungarian family, such as Gábor and Zsuzsa [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ference and Klara.]] , who work all day to make a living and pay less and less; who have to work overtime because of your laws and cannot expect to be paid; whose income is largely borne by the rent; who pay high fees; who cannot expect that if they have a child, they will have a pediatrician; who cannot expect that if they have a child, there will be a social system that will help them; who cannot expect that if they have a child, then their child can continue to study in a good school and get a higher education. How to have children? How to have children in this situation? And there should be no misunderstanding: they, the Gábors and Zsuzsak are many, the average Hungarian families, and not those who have the biggest problem with buying a multimillion-forint car or a multimillion-forint house. They are many, not those who bravely take a ten million forint loan. So we say and that's what the seven-point action plan for attacking families announced by Ferenc Gyurcsány is all about. [[Delight and applause among the members of the government.]] This is about how to help the average Hungarian families. [[Németh Szilárd István: How to travel immigrants!]] Firstly, it is necessary to abolish the slave law, which should not have been adopted and which is not in the interests of Hungarian families. Because how can a Hungarian family have children if they are forced to work overtime all the time? Secondly, the eviction moratorium must be extended and it must be impossible to put childish families on the streets. 'Cause how do families have kids, if they get kicked out on a bad loan, they get kicked out on account of a heartless landlord? Thirdly, we need to increase the family allowance by at least 50 percent, because this is the benefit that goes to all families with children, and which expresses the importance of each child to this country. Fourthly, care or care should be recognised as an employment relationship and at least a minimum wage should be provided so that a family can expect to stay at home with a child or an elderly parent. Fifthly, it is necessary to fill all areas of children's and general medical care in order to ensure that all Hungarian families can expect to receive health care, that medical care is available to them. Sixthly, education reform is needed in order to enable more children to obtain secondary education and then more children to go to higher education. The rule that would exclude Hungarian students from higher education by requiring a language exam must be abolished, and the impossible fees that you have introduced in higher education must be abolished. Seven: ensure that no Hungarian child has to starve, and no Hungarian child has to grow up without minimum heating, electricity and water for the family. It is therefore necessary to introduce a single-band utility system and a minimum utility. Dear House, This is how Hungarians in Europe think, it is a patriotic family policy. These are the average families that need to be helped first, these Gábors and Zsuzsacks, families who struggle daily to stay, to get ahead, and who would very much like to have children, but to do so, the minimum conditions, good education, social care and decent wages must be guaranteed. If you really want to help the Hungarian families, if you really want to end this war against the Hungarian families, you must support this program first. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-11-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-11-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I do not know how much the Hungarian Gábors and Zsuzszak have waited for the points of Ferenc Gyurcsány, but we do have a hunch. The only thing we are happy about is that you, too, consider the matter of families to be an important issue, but regardless, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party have a thin enough moral pedestal to account for anyone in this matter. 'Cause, Congressman, haven't you guys already abolished the tax relief for children? Yes, you are. Didn't the left-wing government once reduce the duration of the child? Yes, I do. Didn't you guys erase a well-functioning home-building system? Yes, you are. Didn't you make the currency loans mass so that hundreds of thousands would be trapped in a debt trap? [[Zsolt Gréczy: You introduced him!]] And after that, you're gonna bring up the eviction case here? Honourable Congressman, In 2010, we had to come out of this situation. Since then, and you know it very well Hungary spends double on family support. One million families are entitled to tax benefits, and more than 90,000 families have requested the home creation program. [[Gergely Harvesto: What about the others?]] According to the new government decisions, young people will receive baby shower support, and there will be even greater loan waivers in the event of the birth of children, while the CSOK loan will also be available for the purchase of a used apartment; and then I did not even mention the village CSOK, which will also help hundreds of thousands of people. For this new family protection operation, Congressman Gréczy, sitting behind you, said that you used that word in a small disaster. It is now possible to argue whether these steps are sufficient. We also believe that more steps are needed. But if you say that this government, this civilian government, has done nothing, then this statement can only be interpreted in the autumn; to put it simply, such a statement does not stand the test of reality. Just to give you a specific example: the willingness to have children is 20 percent higher today than it was in 2010. [[Gergely Harvester: Only the child is less!]] We have reason to believe that the measures taken in recent years and the points of the recently announced family protection action plan would be wiped out by you, just as you have already done. But not only would the current family support scheme be used in the previous way; Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife proposes a family allowance at European level, so she would leave the right to decide on this matter to Brussels. He would trust those who think that there is no need for more Hungarian children, because Africa is born just enough, population problems will be solved by migration, and robots will come anyway. And since you are very much in favour of immigration, including by collecting signatures in addition to quotas, it follows that the main beneficiaries of the imaginary Gyurcsány family policy would be immigrants, they would decide in Brussels, but the check would be paid by Hungarian families. Now, we don't want any of this, and I think that the Hungarian Gábors and Zsuzszak don't want any of this either. [[11.10]] Allow me to bring one more thing up here, since we're already on the agenda. Let's hear that on March 15th, at the Ice Buffet, the Gyurcsány Party and Jobbik will be dating each other. If I may, I would like to recall some earlier statements before their great political shepherding class: (1) there is no home with the Nazis; (2) More than Gyurcsány, there is only hell; 3. the bettermen are the representatives of death instead of life. Nazis, hell, death [[Zsolt Gréczy: Don't worry so much! They were terrified!]] Nazis, hell, death; hold fast on to their selfies [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] You said those things about each other before, and now you're spending the 15th of March together. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] This is how the horror coalition of two unconventional political brigades is created. [[György Szilágyi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] you said those things about each other before, and now you're spending the 15th of March together (György Szilágyi interrupts.) This is how the horror coalition of two unconventional political brigades is created. (György Szilágyi intervenes. The president's ringing. We, for our part, have a law-abiding attitude (Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.) And we wish you a dignified celebration together! You can ask Gergely Christmas to bring Unicum now, because it will be necessary for you to endure all this. We wish you a good celebration. (Zsolt Gréczy intervenes. ) Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Lajos Korózs, from the MSZP Group, asked for a speech entitled "On Current Affairs." I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-11-5	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Perhaps I could go on almost where Secretary of State Dömötör has stopped being okay with having children; demographic challenges are also okay; we can see how much mortality is not so okay; and we can see to what extent and at what rate the population is losing: that is not very okay. If we raise the horizon a little higher or higher, then I recommend to those who are involved in demography that we look at trends for 25, 50 and 100 years, and I see that I have smiled a little bit from the planned government measures that were submitted on Friday with the four little paragraphs, the amendment of the two laws, my dear friends, much more children cannot be expected in this country. That's one of them. The other is that if we happen to have children that we all want, because all of us are pro-government and opposition representatives here want more children to be born in Hungary and more children to remain in Hungary, then we do see or predict that these children will only be born sooner and that these children will not necessarily be born more. The other thing I have to say is that not only should the government support the birth of the child, but also the raising of the child, and the services needed to raise the child should be provided by the government to a much greater extent than is currently the case. In recent years, opposition parties have tabled a number of proposals, starting with a parliamentary decision proposal, through amendments to increase the family allowance, which would have been available to all children; it would have been about doubling the maternity allowance; it would have been about raising the child; or it would have been about raising the child. [[István Szilárd Németh: They took it! You were the Secretary of State when you married him!]] They didn't want to hear about it, they'd always check it out, but there's a family tax credit. When we look at government measures, it turns out that high-income people are the ones who can take full advantage of family tax relief, for example, but I go on, even the President of the Central Bank said in his analysis last week that the CSOK, which serves as housing support, is available to 1% of Hungarian families. What I see in this government thinking is first of all how to narrow down access and get as few people as possible to support it, but if possible, everyone should talk about it. Please, I think that a just social policy should serve enlargement; I also think that it is a good social policy, including a social policy or even a family support policy, which provides similar support to as many children as possible, and even provides more benefits to the underprivileged ones. I don't think I'm gonna tell you a secret about enlargement, we're gonna take a stand for expanding access. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What's new?]] As I said, the government must provide support in connection with raising. I'd like to say that you don't think it's a family to raise two or three children in partnership? Don't you think that the mother who is forced to raise her child alone deserves extra support? If we look at the statistics, there are nearly 300,000 people who are forced to raise their children alone. They're the ones who should be giving extra money. Today, 46 percent of children in Hungary are born out of wedlock. And we also see that, unfortunately, where mothers alone are forced to raise their children, the poverty rate there is more than 40 percent, then government policy should be focused on supporting these families! And where are these kids born anyway? In a broken education system like this? To such a shattered health ward? The Association of GPs said that the family pediatric system will collapse, because 50 percent of GPs in Hungary are over 60 years old and 20 percent are over 70 years old. In these districts, in a few years, there won't be a home-school pediatrician, I think we need to make this clear. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We will take advantage of the opportunity to make proposals in the coming days that are worthy of support, and I look forward to their support. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2019-03-11-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-11-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Speaking of the birth of children, allow me to congratulate your party president on the birth of his new child and daughter. We are sure that he will grow up in a family-friendly country, where it will be good for every child and every family. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You know, honourable Member, if the Hungarian families hear the name of the Hungarian Socialist Party, then the restrictions will come to their mind about it. Those who have bigger children are the Bokros package; those who have not so much children, those of Ferenc Gyurcsány's, even under Péter Medgyessy, and then the continuous restrictions completed by Gordon Bajnai, which have always taken me away, taken me away from Hungarian families, because you have always taken me away from Hungarian families, not from multinationals, guaranteed them the 8 percent profit [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] For example, in the case of utility companies, but pensioners, family members, were always taken away from them when they wanted to take me away from someone. They took away the family tax relief, first from the one-child group, the two kids, then radically reduced it to the three-and-a-half kids. Then they took the interest rate on the housing loan to drive Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans, and this is the problem [[Zsolt Gréczy: You introduced the currency loan, stop it...]] They left it to their offspring. Then they took away a year's worth from every Hungarian family, we can also say that a third of the child was taken, and then the Fidesz-KDNP government had to expand the child, not only to the previous level, but also to the much higher level of family tax relief. And now, with a CSOK loan, families can start their home creation with a much more preferential loan, as you have driven these families into tens of percent foreign currency loans; the current loans can be planned with interest rates below 3 percent. [[11.20]] This is why in 2010 only 125 children were born to 200 parents in Hungary, and now 149 children are born. However, it is equally important that we be able to raise this number above 200. That is why the Prime Minister announced the seven-point family protection action plan in his annual speech. Honourable Congressman, You have dropped half the sentence here, among other things, that it will only make children born sooner. Mr President, Mr President, you have, willfully and unwittingly, touched on one of the essence of this programme. Because we want to have children as young as possible, because then there is a greater chance that a younger child will have a little brother, perhaps even a younger brother, who wants how much, who wants how much. After all, the later they take the baby, the less chance they have to have more siblings, the sooner they get bigger. So thank you very much for finding this important point in the family protection plan, but you just couldn't interpret it. Which is the share of family support, honourable Member, you know that in proportion to the total national product, this was at the end of your governance at around 2.5 percent. It's now at 4.9 percent. You may not see, but you may hear, and you may wonder whether there is another OECD country that spends 4.9 percent or more of GDP on families. You don't find that much. The Hungarian budget, the mechanism for the redistribution of the Hungarian national product, is one of the most favourable, if not the most favourable, for families in all developed countries. As regards the issue of family allowance, honourable Member, we asked the Hungarian people what more support should be given, to family support of the kind that are linked to employment or to those that are not linked to employment. More than 95 percent of people have said that we are increasing family support linked to employment. So what you stand for, about 5 percent of the Hungarian people represented in the national consultation, which we represent, 95 percent of the Hungarian people represented. For this reason, the surplus, the HUF 1000 billion that we now spend more on families than in 2010, since it was around 950 billion at the time, is now spending more than HUF 2000 000 billion on families, the growth was primarily seen for family support linked to work. You're saying the CSOK isn't successful enough. Honourable Congressman, More than 95,000 families had used it before this seven - point expansion. This means that it promotes the housing of about 400,000 people. Is that not enough for you? Over the course of a few years, do you think it's possible to facilitate the housing of 95,000 families? And I'm asking you to stop that kind of distortion when you're trying to reinterpret your family definition by ignoring the Fundamental Law. According to the Hungarian government, those raising children are a family, whether they are married or not. If they raise their children together, they will receive the same support as anyone else. There is extra support for single - parent parents. They have an advantage over other families when they're in kindergarten. Erzsébet's program provides them with separate camps. We've created single parent centers. And the poverty rate you have mentioned, Congressman, has fallen to one of the greatest extent in single - parent families, fortunately in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Why does the government not represent the Hungarian people in the European Union? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-03-11-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For some time, the Hungarian Prime Minister and Fidesz have had nothing to do with European politics but to create a situation that can avoid substantial control of EU funds, which are used to make their own wealth. This is not about representing the interests of the Hungarian people, but it is not even about expressing real or imagined principles, it is about a net position fight. This is what this debate is about with the People's Party, when the Prime Minister hopes to hold the new European Parliament and the new Commission in check with the help of the new European extremists. These games are all about who will be sure, President of the Commission, and what will come to the individual players through their different deals; while there is nothing to say about the Hungarian people, the important issues for them, the issues that want to be resolved at European level, such as limiting multinational companies. Yes, these are the companies that you serve unconditionally at the expense of the Hungarian people. There is no mention of the situation of workers' wages or the effective development of backward regions. People's safety must be at the heart of the next EU budget. People have a right to be concerned about their personal futures, their livelihoods, the safety of their everyday lives. It is the job of politics to give meaningful answers to these expectations. There is no question that illegal migration must be combated. Immigration policy must remain a national competence and each Member State has the right to decide who it wants to live with and who it does not. The government is constantly pulling itself out of work on important issues such as the fight against illegal migration and smuggling, and it is essentially judging from the outside. Where is Hungary's sovereignty? You are constantly lying to the Hungarian people, because the Orbán government is, in fact, pro-immigration. Only the settlement bonds allowed more than 20,000 people into Hungary and the European Union without any security checks. This allowed the Syrian dictator's money launderer, the businessman working with the Russian mob and other criminals to get a lifelong settlement permit. And if that is not enough, then let us remember that during the work of Szilárd Kiss agrarian attaché, nearly 70,000 Russian citizens were assisted on the basis of the national economy interest for a Hungarian visa, while more criminals and prostitutes were granted admission to Hungary on the basis of an international criminal signal. And why are you doing this? For money, for money. The offshore companies with the name of Antal Rogán are already making more than 150 billion forints in the business. Meanwhile, in recent years, new players have appeared on the political stage where the Hungarian Prime Minister tried to play, and he has now become an instrument in other people's games. Now the Hungarian Prime Minister is being used by others for their own EU and domestic political games, while still hoping to benefit from positions within and outside the People's Party. The stakes of the European Parliament elections are also whether the Hungarian national interest will finally be represented in the European Union. We are working to build a Europe of people instead of a Europe of multinationals, which is able to provide security and stability for the Hungarian people as well. We are working to put the security aspects of the Hungarian people on the table of the European Union and to restore Hungary's ability to assert its interests. We are working to ensure that the interests of Central Europe can be enforced in the European Union at least as much as those of the founding Member States. The protection of the European Union's external borders must be strengthened, and this must be an active policy contributing to the EU's endeavour, because it is in the immediate security interest of the Hungarian people. The root causes of the migration crisis should be explored and it should be pointed out that mass migration is the result of climate change and the exploitation of economies by large companies. The multinational corporations are equally responsible for the 2008 economic crisis, and these are the multinational large corporations to which the government has provided 365 billion forints of support from the Hungarian taxpayers' pockets. It is therefore necessary to limit large companies, to reduce tax avoidance, and to help Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises at last. It is necessary to fight to increase wages and not to reduce EU funds for Hungary, but to pay them strictly. The Hungarian Prime Minister and Fidesz do not want to represent the Hungarian people in the European Union and can no longer do so. We are convinced that we need a new European Parliament, new Members and a new European Commission for the benefit of the Hungarian people.
u2019-03-11-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-11-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We really need a new European Parliament, we really need a new European Commission, a European Parliament and a European Commission that respects the sovereignty of nation states, does not want to constantly steal away powers from them, to which you LMP Members have assisted throughout the European Parliament. On the other hand, it can stop the wave of immigration, not by sanctions, not by threats to break those countries of Hungary, Poland, the Visegrad countries, Italy that protect Europe, but by helping and at least partially covering the costs of it. We believe that such a change is needed in Europe, and not a representation such as that produced by LMP in the last cycle, when Tamás Meszerics said yes to quotas, and when Hungary should have been protected against the Sargentini report, it did not defend Hungary. [[11.30]] Well, that's not necessary. You have given us a campaign speech and a programme speech here in the European Parliament. After having managed to enter the LMP in the third round, and in the second round, it has managed to reach the top of the EP list, we have now heard a quite mixed programme speech from you in the LMP, the European Parliament. [[Márta Demeter: Some content... Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] But if we look at the LMP representatives, the former Members, that the former MEP of LMP is no longer LMP, and if we look at the former presidents and co-chairs of LMP, we can see that no former LMP president or co-chair is any longer a member of their group, then there is a great chance for you to finish the next term, as you are also a MEP and also a president, there is a double chance that you will not end it as an LMP. Of course, he didn't start the previous cycle as an LMP, so he may have a triple chance at all, but regardless, his heart has the right to give such a speech. You have to explain in Brussels, because Philippe Lamberts himself threatened you that if you and Jobbik continue to have this kind of wedding dance, you will be thrown out of the European greens immediately, from the party family you belong to. So there's something to explain, I'm curious about how you'll be able to explain this in Brussels. Madam Member, as regards the use of EU funds and budgetary resources, unemployment has fallen from 12% to less than 4 percent since 2010. The number of employees has increased by 800,000. The minimum wage for skilled workers has doubled. In a year, the average wage increase is now between 10 and 13 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that there are few countries that can use their resources as a source of tender, as a source of EU funding, as a source of domestic resources, as a source of budgetary resources, so that they can provide people with such an increase in prosperity in a few years. Of course, we would like to do even more in the coming years, but don't forget that your new allies, who are now surrounded by you on your seat, when you were on the government, were able to produce a 7 percent reduction in GDP in one year, and they were able to produce an 8 percent wage reduction in the public sector in one year, compared to a period like this, when there were also EU subsidies when the same system worked, only they had a fall in the public sector by 8 percent and not by 10-13 percent in terms of the country as a whole. I think that many of you were surprised when you announced a campaign for the European Parliament and said that you had four points, but as the main European issue, immigration is not the issue of migration. We had a bit of an Agnes Kunhalmi problem here. On an issue that now concerns all European voters, all European voters talk about it, and most Hungarians, perhaps 70 percent, consider this to be the most important European issue, the LMP, who, in this sense, gave up 70-80 percent of this voter to society, says that this is not among the most important European issues when they announce their four points. [[Continuous interventions by representatives of LMP and DK.]] As far as Hungarian businesses are concerned, not only did you talk about various large investments, but Gábor Vágó, your list leader, also called it a crap race when the Mercedes factory comes to Hungary, the Audi factory or Jaguar brings its development centre to Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If we really believe from the needs of Hungarian people that they want to earn more and work on more value-added jobs, perhaps these words sound a little irresponsible, while, of course, the government is also helping Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and even micro-enterprises, because with Kata there is a system for the smallest Hungarian businesses, which means an extremely simple and low-cost enterprise, and the 9 percent corporate tax paid by small businesses in Hungary is also a record low at European level, if it is not the lowest one. Let me remind you of your predecessor, one of your predecessors, why you left the LMP:, Moral, philosophical content, visions I did not discover in the LMP, instead of strategy, only catfight continues in this party. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This is what András Schiffer said; but one could say why Sallai R. Benedek will never convince a single person to become a member of the LMP again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-12	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title of Mr.Sándor Burány, Dialogue Group on Current Issues. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-11-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Recently, the Swedish Minister for Social Affairs wrote that Fidesz policy reeks of the '30s. In Western Europe, this is a new discovery. Unfortunately, we Hungarians have had to live with this fact for years. A new development on this issue is not that Fidesz's politics reeks of the thirties, but that, while the Fidesz did so before, it is no longer restelli. Perhaps we can agree that Gábor G. Fodor is not just anyone. He is one of the columnist members of the Fidesz footage, the editor-in-chief of one of the columnist bastions, 888. In his own words, he is a terminator, but more importantly, he is Viktor Orbán's comrade in arms and warfare. These are his words, he uses such expressions. He doesn't consider himself a journalist. I agree with him on that, by the way. He believes that at the head of 888 he's leading a fighting community, making politics with your tools. I quote, the 888 armory. The thought is also a weapon. å So many Goebbelsi thoughts. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tell that to Jobbik, not to us.]] We can't be surprised. Many elements of Goebbels propaganda are used by Fidesz on a daily basis. Control over the media, the search for enemies, the crowd of accusations, the flood of lies and their frequent repetitions are all so many elements of the propaganda machine that Goebbels laid the foundations of back in the thirties. If you think it's a bit excessive, you just need to listen to a recently released recording, where Gábor G. Fodor, in favor of the audience, says the following, as an experiment of thought, but as we know, the idea is also a weapon. It would be nice to make a Viktorjugend. I'm really thinking about it, but obviously I'm not gonna do it, I'm just thinking about it. Well, how do I put it... so now it's just not a bad time. These parallels, these metaphors, for which you should be ashamed everywhere in the world, please in fidesz circles, as you can hear on the recording. Later, he tried to explain his words. I admit that the connotation of the term is unpleasant. What's wrong with you? You call a world burn unpleasant? You call it unpleasant a connotation in his words, where millions have become victims, runaways, where cities, villages, settlements have vanished from the face of the earth? Is that embarrassing? Well, what would be rough for him? Then he explained that, in fact, he was talking about the fact that young people on the right have become sloppy, comfortable, and that many people want to be secretary of state right away from the university, this is a very serious mobility problem. If I were Fidelitas, I'd ask myself that. Not good enough? Isn't the youth organisation that gives Fidesz dozens of MPs, deputy mayor, deputy state secretary, secretary of state and minister to Fidesz, the Fidesz governments, bodies? Isn't this Fidelitas good enough? Is it necessary to create a Viktorjugend directly? Gábor G. Fodor, of course, continues to explain, saying that he who knows me a little bit and my work knows exactly that I am a warrior, but I did not want to express any extreme message. What if he wanted to? This reminds me of Zoltán Kovács, who once got caught trying to hide the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank from the public, and he replied to the question that he had succeeded? Now, as an example of this, Gábor G. Fodor does not want to seem extreme, but could we ask the question: did you manage? Yeah. Unfortunately, yes. You're here. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-03-11-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[11.40]]
u2019-03-11-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly, also because the speech was hardly more than a selection of insults. If you, if you're so sensitive to the '30s, to extreme action, then why are you and Jobbik marching this Friday? [[Constant interruptions from dialogue and DK.]] Why would they do that? If they took seriously their own principles or the principles they said earlier, they wouldn't be protesting with Jobbik on Friday. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-16	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, [[Zsolt Gréczy: We should have separated from G. Fodor!]] Congressman, if you don't mind. Thank you. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I don't mind.]] Dear Parliament, In response to a pre-meeting speech, Ms Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP Group:.Hungary Helps, Hungary's humanitarian assistance from an international perspective. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-03-11-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian government has a strong idea of what Europe would like to leave for its successors, and this is a Christian Europe. This includes not only its migration policy, but also its humanitarian aid policy. According to this, the Hungarian Government wishes to be a prominent player in international humanitarian aid. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's why you don't feed on the border.]] The fundamental aim of this is to establish a direct link with local communities and to implement humanitarian assistance on the basis of their needs and needs. It aims to achieve two objectives: on the one hand, in the Middle East, through direct contacts with the church leaders of the respective communities in the countries of the migration source zone, it wants to play a role in preventing and stopping migration, and it wants to be the voice of persecuted Christians in the world. The Hungarian Helps programme provided a legal framework for this specific humanitarian aid in December 2018. The fundamental objective of the Hungarian government is not to allow the problem into Europe, but to help communities locally. In order to achieve this objective, the State Secretary responsible for helping persecuted Christians and implementing Hungary Helps operates in a unique way in Europe. The results of the past two years are worth looking at from two perspectives: how effective is it in the Middle East in keeping persecuted Christians and other communities on the ground, and how do international organisations see Hungary Helps effective and effective? The local survival of communities is demonstrated not only by the return of the communities of Northern Iraq, Tell-Askuf, our project of open hospitals established by the Syrian Holy See and our joint agreement with the United States signed with the Development Agency [[Zsolt Gréczy: What about the Hungarian hospitals?]] , but what I have experienced in my journey to New York personally: the Hungarian Helps program is known and recognized. When I was negotiating with Antoine Camilleri, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Holy See and Courtney Nemroff, the interim director of the UN Economic and Social Council, the question was not what Hungary Helps is, but what is the next program on which Hungary wants to be present in the Middle East. I took the same credit from US Senator Sam Brownback, who is responsible for interreligious dialogue, while speaking together at the UN Social and Economic Council. It is also very important to see what international organisations outside the UN play a role and can play a role in coordinating humanitarian aid. György Hölvényi, our colleague, who is the chairman of the working group on inter-religious dialogue and who has also participated in African missions, plays a serious and key role in the European Parliament. On the other hand, as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I have presented an initiative which, for the first time since 2011, intends to re-examine the issue of persecuted Christians in the Middle East. Here, particular attention should be paid to two groups, which are the most vulnerable group in terrorist attacks, and these are women and children, because if we look at how many women and children died in Egyptian Christian Coptic attacks, we should pay particular attention to this in the Council of Europe. This means that the issue of Hungary Helps and humanitarian aid is on the agenda of all international organisations. The Secretary of State was present at the same time in New York, Iraq, Congo and Kenya. Our goal is to make Hungary Helps a brand, and not just a brand, but the word, the commitment that the Hungarian government wants to represent in the international world, because we believe that maintaining the ethnic balance and religious balance of the Middle East and solving the migration crisis on Europe can only be achieved through a committed, smart and effective humanitarian aid. We consider the unique approach of Hungary Helps to contact the church leaders of local communities and to develop our humanitarian assistance accordingly, as this shows that direct contact with multilateral relations and the recognition of the needs of local communities are extremely important. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Azbei Tristan wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-11-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for sharing your experience with the western reception of the Hungarian Helps program; here in the House we have experienced some noisy interest. Yesterday, our mission to Africa ended, assessing the potential for humanitarian aid in Congo and Kenya. Together with MEP György Hölvényi, Franciscan Csaba Böjte and Jesuit monk Szabolcs Sajgó, we visited the orphanage Othniel in the poor district of the Congolese capital. This institution has been operating for years thanks to the support of Hungary. Without the help of the children living in it, there would be no alternative other than hopeless wavering, migration, or youthful death. We also visited the eye clinic led by our exceptional compatriot Dr. Richard Hardi Catholic missionary, which was supported by the Hungarian government through the Hungarian Helps program. Dear Parliament, In Richard Hardi's ophthalmologist mission, more than 10,000 patients are cured annually in a region without any other ophthalmologist or even medical care. It is also true in this region that Hungarian support is also used to prevent migration, in addition to saving lives. Our experience in Africa confirms the forecasts that by 2050 the population of Africa will double, i.e. it will grow by 1.3 billion. The resulting crises will lead hundreds of millions of migrants towards the European Union and our country. The government understands its neighbour's duty to those living in the crisis zone when it comes to helping the sufferers, but also feels its duty to the Hungarian people when it curbs migration. The Hungarian government's response to this historic challenge is clear: we protect our borders, our Christian culture and our national identity. Since we are a country of solidarity and because we have a heart, we are not indifferent to those in need. Instead of the assumed fundamental right to migration, however, we have the fundamental right to remain in the homeland. In the spirit of this, I also report that our colleagues are currently in the village Tell-Askuf, Iraq, whose reconstruction can be highlighted as national pride. Thanks to the Hungarian Helps program, a thousand of the 1,300 persecuted Christian families chased away by ISIS have returned to this settlement, and the locals refer to their village by the name of the daughter of Hungary. Dear House, Our basic idea is to bring help to where there is trouble, not to bring trouble to Hungary. I would like to stress that this is also in the interests of our country and of the Hungarian people. The formula is simple: the same hand that supports migration, endangers the future of Hungarian people and pulls the money out of the pockets of Hungarian people. For pro-immigration politicians would provide 9 million forints of support to all immigrants for full integration. On the other hand, only a small part of this is the expenditure per soul that we have spent, for example, on rebuilding the previously mentioned Iraqi settlement Tell-Askuf. With the money that can be used to build a house in Europe for an established migrant family, three or four houses in the Middle East and ten houses in some parts of Africa can be renovated according to economic calculations. The reason why well-defined political forces want to manage dangerous and more expensive migration for European taxpayers rather than local assistance is well explained in the study known as the Soros Plan. [[11.50]] With the exception of a narrow speculant circle in migration, everyone loses, but the drivers of the process benefit from migrant cards, with the support of migration support organisations in the EU, with the inexpensive labour force invading. Dear House, I am deeply touched by the solidarity of the Hungarians. His Holiness Pope Francis said that in connection with our program. The Hungarian Helps program means hope and ascension. And this was said by the founder of the Congolese orphanage at the greeting of our delegation. For us Hungarians, this program [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] it strengthens our faith in our security and the preservation of our future, our faith in humanity. To do so, we ask for your support, thanking many for their generous, helpful efforts so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group, Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-03-11-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary consistently stands in favour of the self-determination of the divided parts of the nation, and since its establishment we have consistently represented the policy in which autonomy and self-determination are one of our most important objectives. Supporting the foreigners is not about getting a vote for us; it is a matter of principle, a question that comes from an internal motivation. That is why since 2013, since the Szekler National Council in Târgu Mureş organized the Szekler Day of Freedom, we Jobbik think that it is our place there; not only for us Parliamentary Members and Bettermen in Hungary, but also for the Transylvanian member organizations of Jobbik, who will be represented at this meeting starting from Postaret and arriving at the Prefecture in a procession to pass a petition and demand autonomy and the right to self-determination from Romania, Bucharest. We have always been there since 2013, because we believe that we must stand up for the rightful demand of the Szeklers, and that we must take part in this commemoration, this parade. That is why we were there yesterday, and I myself, along with several myself, my fellow Member, János Bencsik, with several IT and local betters. This is one of the biggest moves about self-determination and the achievement of autonomy, yet it is painful that no politician with fidesz has been seen since 2013 at this memorial, as rare as the white raven, and the organizers say that it is recognized with a grunt. You can see it, and it's painful, striking absence for Fidesz about these events, it's almost demonstrative, and it shows how you relate to autonomy and the issue of self-determination. Only representatives of LMP and Jobbik were present at this event. You guys have a national rhetoric. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We have a national policy, not rhetoric.]] In your government, there is a ministerial commissioner coordinating autonomy issues in the person of Katalin Szili, the Prime Minister's Office, a State Secretary responsible for national policy, Árpád Potápi is responsible for this area, and Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, oversees the national policy as a minister without a wallet, but he was so busy this year that they welcomed the congregators in a letter and read a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office. What could have been more important for these three government members on 10 March than the Szekler Day of Freedom and at least one of them in Marosvásárhely? You must answer and answer this question, because otherwise your national policy smells very pact and sabotage. This shows that the issue of autonomy and self-determination is not important to you; it shows that you have basically entered into a pact with the ethnic Hungarian parties there. You believe that they must be controlled from Budapest, their policies and activities must be controlled somehow from Budapest. During the elections in Romania, you will assist them to the government in Bucharest, and they will collect the Hungarian votes for you during a Hungarian parliamentary election. This is what this pact is about, and you will benefit from it as an Orbán government, because this proves the nationalist's policy, and this is what the Szeklery and every foreign Hungarian national minority suffers from. There is nothing for you in this policy, dear fellow Members of the Government, and you are turning Hungarian against Hungarian again. We have seen it when Hungarians in Hungary were turned against Hungarians across the border at home, you are doing the opposite and your inverse: they are turning the Hungarians there against everyone who is not a Fidesz voter and does not vote for Fidesz, and that is why they should be ashamed of themselves. Your policy is based on sharing, which is why Jobbik says that in the European Parliament, in the European Union elections, the issue of autonomy [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Put it on our flag. Therefore, we must fight, and diplomacy must be encouraged not to betray the interests of foreign Hungarians. [[The president's ringing again.]] It represents it, and it gains self-determination and autonomy for the Székely and the Hungarian communities abroad. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-11-22	Dear Parliament, We're five minutes on schedule, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-11-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr. Fraction Manager, I think it must have been just as difficult for you to say this speech, as you said in your previous interview, as the previous Jewish speaker said here in the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. Perhaps that is the only excuse I can offer you that you disagreed with this speech. You have done two things in this speech, and I think both are unforgivable sins. One is that you consider Hungarians across the border to be voting machines. [[Tibor Bana: Are you guys talking? You tell me.!]] You don't see Hungarians across the border as people. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They're considered voting machines. He talked about why, who they vote for and who they don't vote for. Clearly, what hurt you and what hurt you is that you don't consider Jobbik's policy worthy of support. This would bring us to the other point, which I think was outrageous, and I think it would be nice to say why Hungarians across the border do not consider Jobbik's policy to be supportive: because you will join forces with the political forces in the Hungarian Parliament who campaign against dual citizenship [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Soros!]] You are the ones who join forces in the Hungarian Parliament, who do not support any cooperation with those beyond the borders, and you are building your entire politics to provoke Hungarians against Hungarians. [[Tibor Bana: What did Orbán promise after the Romanian EU accession? The president's ringing the bell.]] This is why Hungarians across the border do not support their politics.
u2019-03-11-24	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Congressman, we've been listening to your group leader. Be kind and respect that. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-11-25	That is why the Hungarian Government decided in 2010 to follow the direction set by the Fundamental Law. [[Tibor Bana: He's lying all the time!]] that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians and that Hungary is responsible for all Hungarians [[György Szilágyi: How many times have you taken the Szeklers to the EU?]] The reason why he has decided that this responsibility must be expressed in citizenship and suffrage is precisely because Hungarian citizens who have received citizenship and have the right to vote can punish politicians like you when you betray these fellow nations across the border. Because if these Hungarians across the border have the right to vote, they can vote against you, and this has happened in recent years: they voted against you, they do not support your national policy. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Thanks to the Orbán propaganda you pushed out there. Shame on you!]] By the way, I am quite sad because, in relation to the day of the Hungarian-Székely unity and the autonomy efforts, so far, it can be said that there has been a cross-party unity in the Hungarian Parliament, at least through government parties. I was preparing for this speech, as you began, to stand together for the day of Szekler freedom, for autonomy efforts, for your support to the government, and I can thank you for that. [[György Szilágyi: You never stood up! You didn't show the Szeklers in the EU once!]] But I can't do that. [[György Szi-Lágyi: You do not represent their cause!]] I can't do it, because what you did with your speech [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It was nothing else, but you were based on the current political interests of the party. By the way, just because there have been some questions in your speech, let me answer those questions. [[György Szilágyi: Say one thing! An example.]] The Hungarian government will help you with all possible means, just as you have already helped us. [[12.00]] And likewise, by adopting a decision on the day of the Hungarian-Székely unity, you should, in principle, help the Hungarian communities abroad to implement their autonomy efforts. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: We introduced...]] In the Hungarian government there is a former Speaker of the Prime Minister Katalin Szili, who is also the person of the parties... [[Tibor Bana: Which party was he a member of? Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Party Gyurcsány!]] No, he also wants to express the cross-party unity [[The president's ringing the bell.]] exactly what you're undermining every time you get the chance. It is his job to coordinate the work of social, political and civil society organisations in the Carpathian Basin because they will be responsible for developing the concept of autonomous efforts. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: And how much did he achieve? Where are you at?]] As these Hungarian organizations in Transylvania put it, discuss and publish the single concept of the autonomy of Szeklerland, the Hungarian government will support it with full chest width. [[György Szilágyi: How many times have you brought the subject into Europe?]] in the Hungarian Parliament, in Hungary and in European fora, in the European Parliament, in the Council of Europe and in other international institutions. This is the help that helps to achieve the Szekler autonomy efforts, and this is the help that you have sacrificed today on the altar of current campaign logic and party politics. [[György Szilágyi: How many times have you brought this subject in there? Not once.]] So I would very much like to ask you not to bring these matters to Parliament during the day-to-day party campaign, and most importantly not to celebrate on 15 March with those who do not support the reunification with Hungarians across the border. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. György Szilágyi: We don't celebrate with you, don't be afraid!]]
u2019-03-11-26	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Congressman Csaba Hende, Chairman of the Legislative Committee... [[Tibor Bana: Go Szombathely! György Szilágyi: Where is the shaman drum? Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] Congressman, as a notary, you know exactly what behavior is. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr Vice-President, address of the speech: You have the floor, Mr. Vice President. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Go!]]
u2019-03-11-27	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Because of population growth, wars and climate change outside Europe, millions of migrants, and later tens of millions of people, are looking for solutions to their lives instead of staying at home. This historic challenge will also determine the lives of future generations. We are in the middle of a historical process, and the government that has not responded is committing a crime against its own people. Europe is today a continent of empty cradles. The Hungarians do not want to solve this problem with migration, but with Hungarian children. We do not want to create a mixed society of migrants and native Hungarians. The government must therefore identify the reasons why young people do not take on the children they want, and these obstacles must be removed from the way, and Hungary must be made a family-friendly country. For this reason, the four important measures of the Family Protection Action Plan will be in force as of 1 July; the expansion of nursery space will be continuous work; the exemption of mothers with four children and the possibility of grandparents will take effect from 1 January 2020. Dear House, The idea of being normal in Europe is slowly forming, but not everyone is normal in Europe. We are listening to her infidelity, as one British expert, so-called expert, says: "There is no need for children in Europe, because there are enough children born in Africa. I mean, having a baby is such a pain in the ass. And another bright European mind was able to say, "The birth of babies is harmful to the air quality, because too much methane is flown into the air by the little ones. As we hear these opinions, we begin to believe in old wisdom: Whoever God wants to destroy is first lost in reason. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] There are also parties within the European People's Party that want to bring in a Europe of mixed populations and migrants. And there are parties in it, including Fidesz, who want to protect Christian culture and borders and do not want migration. The pro-immigration people attacked Fidesz in the European People's Party, trying to transform the entire EPP into an international pro-immigration organisation, but the Hungarians appointed the mandate of the government and Fidesz. Christian culture is a value; we do not want to become a mixed country [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches.]] We do not want migration, we want security, and we will maintain the biological future of the Hungarian nation without immigrants through our family policy. I will say this in a straightforward manner: there is no compromise on the protection of Christian culture and migration, and everything else can be discussed. Dear House, According to our proposal for border protection, nation states within Schengen should set up a Council of Ministers of the Interior, which, with its powers, would qualify for border protection; Brussels pays at least half of the border protection costs to the Member States each year. The aim is to take back the powers from Brussels and to give them to the internal ministers of the Schengen countries. If, over the last three to four years, migration-related powers had been with the Interior Ministers of the Schengen Zone, as they were not there, but in the hands of the Brussels bureaucrats, Europe would be more protected and safer today. It has been proven since then that only the nation states can protect borders and stop migration. Hungary has proved first that it is possible to act against migration, and it can be stopped. That is why we are at the heart of the debates. The end of this debate may be that, after all, our place is not in the People's Party, but in addition to that, although we want to achieve the transformation and reform of the People's Party, so that there is also a place for anti-immigration forces. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-11-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to draw attention to some recent developments. At the end of the week, a document was published showing that the government made a very good decision when it did not join the UN Pact on Migration. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: 86,000 migrants have been admitted!]] The European Commission's legal service has written that it believes that the migration pact is legally binding, all after we have heard all the time that it is voluntary. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] The document also states that migration should be subject to the same rules that apply worldwide; that no borders can be closed for immigrants and that they should receive the same treatment as the locals. This case also proves that there is practically no branch in Brussels that does not have a plan to support immigration. The Hungarian government, as is known, has identified seven plans in Brussels in recent weeks in which there is one common: to strengthen immigration in Europe. And the resolution on the UN Pact on Migration in Brussels is so serious that we can consider it an eighth point. And this case also demonstrates the nature of stealthy legislation, trying to take away strategic powers from the nation states. No bureaucrats and inaccessible political activist groups would make decisions, open the gates of Europe, without asking us. This is what the open society's decision-making process looks like, but it's not democratic. Of course, we know that there are parties in Hungary that are also against Hungarian interests, Ferenc Gyurcsány said, for example, that the migration pact should have been signed. No matter what, the rolling rubles must serve the euros in Brussels after the snags! [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] We have a different policy. The Hungarian Government therefore called on the European Commission to abandon this practice and not to draw up plans without authorisation to make the UN migration package mandatory. At the next Foreign Affairs Council on 18 March, the Commission will also be invited to report on its activities in this regard. Moreover, the press conference of the Commissioner for Migration, Mr Dimitris Avramopulos, was very instructive a few days ago. First, he said that Europe no longer has a migration crisis, and then, with the same momentum, he argued in favour of proposals that would increase immigration to Europe. So he again argued for the quota and demanded the Frontex reform, which would entail a reform of border protection rights. And the background material published after the press conference will also tell you what the approach behind these proposals is. Once again, the aim is to legalise immigration, arguing that managed migration puts it this way: managed migration contributes to economic growth, enriches societies and, moreover, strengthens peace. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] [[12.10]] Either way, these plans have not been asked at all by the Europeans or the Hungarians, but we can be sure that these plans have no majority support at all. That is why we believe that the European election in May is important. Then it is possible to put clean water on the table and put Europe's defence and renewal on a completely different footing. It's very, very necessary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-11-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Today's speech after the agenda has been submitted by Dóra Dúró, representative, independent; István Apáti, Member, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Karpát, Member, Jobbik; Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik. Dear Parliament, It's 12:11 now. We will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Why doesn't the government stand up for the Hungarian two-handed workers? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Mihály Varga, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, has appointed Minister of Finance. At the request of the Minister, Minister Sándor Bodó will answer the question. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-03-11-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In recent months, Hungarian workers have experienced what they can expect from the Hungarian government. On the one hand, in scandalous circumstances, you voted in favour of the slave law, which is a way to fully deliver the two-handed workers to multinational companies. On the other hand, they do not stand by them in their struggles and are silently supporting the payoff that large companies can take out workers who wish to strike. For example, at the Suzuki factory, a worker who wanted to create a trade union was fired without warning, so that they could effectively represent the interests of the workers. And the question arises, what have you done? The answer to that is nothing. But it's not just the Suzuki factory, it's completely illegal retaliation. For example, the Hankook Rubber Factory operates in my area, where anger is also boiling because of extremely low wages. As a result, from midnight today, workers will be forced to strike again. Recently, one of the employees contacted me to tell me that he and another of his colleagues were fired from the factory because he encouraged us to join the VDSZ. In addition, the management sent threatening messages to employees, inter alia, that those taking part in the strike should no longer expect the hospitality of the Hankook House, i.e. moving them out of the accommodation provided to the workers. All of this can happen in Hungary in 2019. On the one hand, I wish the workers there endurance in achieving their goals, and on the other hand, I ask the Secretary of State to answer my questions honestly: what legal assistance can the government expect from workers who have been illegally fired or threatened with housing because they demand normal wages? And, of course, the question arises when they realize that it is not the hours of work that must be raised, but the wages of workers. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-11-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-11-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! The Labour Code clearly states that it is prohibited to terminate the employment of a worker because of membership of a trade union or trade union activity. In the case of both employer's notice and immediate employer's notice, the law requires the employer's obligation to justify it. The justification must be real, clear and reasonable. The law ensures the protection of the social and economic interests of workers. In order to maintain peace of work, the law also regulates the relations between the trade union and the employer and the relevant labour rights guarantees. The government shall neither interfere nor interfere with this system of relations with individual measures. The government provides legal guarantees for the formation of the trade union and for the entry into the trade union. In the event of any breach of rights, the legislation shall include the remedies to be applied by the parties concerned. Honourable Congressman, The government's primary objective is also to increase the wages of Hungarian workers. Net wages increased by over 70 percent between 2010-18, taking into account family tax incentives. Wages are essentially determined by the bargaining of market players, employers and workers. The government can participate directly in this by setting the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage and, on a transfer, by reducing taxes. The evidence is that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have more than doubled over nine years, and the social contribution tax has decreased significantly. This decline will continue this year as well. According to the latest statistics, it is also a fact that physical workers' wages have increased above average in the last three months. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-11-34	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Csaba Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why is it not important to resolve the situation surrounding the Móra Ferenc Primary School in Zugló? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-11-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Last month, I submitted a written question to Minister Miklós Kásler. I wanted to find out what you want to do to resolve the situation surrounding Ferenc Móra Primary School in Zugló. On behalf of Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State replied, but his reply contained no relevant information beyond the presentation of the relevant legislation. It follows to me that the Ministry does not want to deal with the problem in substance. The problem is that for two and a half years there has been no appointed director of the Ferenc Móra Primary School in Zugló, despite the fact that five tendering cycles have been completed since then. Among the applicants was a teacher who had been leading the school for 15 years, who was supported by an overwhelming majority by all the opinion forums, and whose support was also supported by the head of the Central Pesti District Centre. Nevertheless, all applications have been unsuccessful. In the last round of applications, the former principal of the school decided that he would no longer start, if his person was the obstacle to the successful application, then he would provide an opportunity to step aside and maybe then be successful. This round of applications, of course, took place without results. The situation remained unchanged, and the uncertainty in school that had been experienced earlier, that parents were taking children away from school and that teachers were leaving slowly, little by little. In view of this, I ask the Secretary of State: what is the reason why five consecutive entries were unsuccessful at the Ferenc Móra Primary School in Zugló? What was the objection of the Secretary of State for Education to the applicants? Finally, what does the Ministry intend to do to ensure that the uncertainty they cause does not result in a deterioration in the quality and judgement of the institution and does not result in the departure of additional students and teachers? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-03-11-36	Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-11-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you said, you have already submitted a written question on this matter. Indeed, the law regulates, honourable Member, the possibility for everyone, including the Ministry of Education, to help them to become the new head of the school. You yourself said that there were a lot of applicants, there were a lot of different types of people, perhaps in individual procedures, but none of them led to results. There are various votes in this procedure, whether on the part of the teachers, on the part of the parents, and the opinion of the district of education is obviously to be sought in this process, and it has not yet become a final head of the institution. Nevertheless, the head of the institution is the deputy director according to the text. The administration of the institution is provided by the law, so there is also a place to decide such questions. What we can do is always try again and again, we publish calls for proposals nationwide and also for this school, if there were no candidates or none of the previous applicants were suitable during the procedure, none of them had a majority, or none were ultimately supported by the different actors during the procedure. [[12.20]] For this reason, another round of applications will be launched again in March of this year. We hope that there will be as many candidates as possible, and we hope that there will be a candidate who is suitable, and that all forums will find it both good and suitable to lead this institution. In the meantime, the Deputy Director will continue to carry out the tasks related to the management of the school. And in March, so this month, we are trying to open the possibility for another leader to submit his application. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-38	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of the Democratic Coalition, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why did Ferenc Gyurcsány last raise the family allowance, the Hungarian families are not that important? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor.
u2019-03-11-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Orbán government used to talk about family policy, the Orbán government, which promised a 14th month pension but failed to fulfil it; which closed the institution of the house savings; which is now on its way to taking away the pension from those who do not have children. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where did you hear that?]] And just today, the fact that the Kasler program failed was made public because of a lack of money. I can't think of anything more beautiful and patriotic than a government that can support families. It was also a patriotic act when the Gyurcsány government increased the family allowance in 2008, i.e. 11 years ago. You have not been able to do this in the last 11 years. It is therefore thanks to Imre Steindl and his colleagues that the ceiling does not break when you talk about family policy and support for families. Today, the family allowance is worth 22 percent less than during the Gyurcsány government. It's not enough to talk about families as a campaign topic, it's also necessary to act in the interests of families. You will remember that last week Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány presented 7+1 points of the Democratic Coalition to raise families. Point 4 of this is to increase the family allowance by at least 50%. This is what a responsible European government would do instead of eternal war, because in times of war, fewer children will be born. There's a freezing data that also belongs to the Orbán government. In the last hundred years, the last eight years have proved that three of these were the least children of all time in Hungary. This is the result of the family policy of the Orbán government. You are at war with Europe, you are at war with the Hungarians, and that is the end of it. Therefore, I recommend to everyone the seven-point package introduced by Ferenc Gyurcsány, point 4 doubling the family allowance. Tell me, Secretary of State, why did Ferenc Gyurcsány last raise the family allowance, why are Hungarian families not important to your government? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK and LMP. Péter Cseresnyés: You have taken the child and the child!]]
u2019-03-11-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-11-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Firstly, I would like to reject your alarm very quickly and very clearly, which concerns pensions. In Hungary pensions, even in part, were taken away from the Hungarian people only by the Gyurcsány government, when he took a month's pension from all Hungarian people. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The 13th month pension was granted by us!]] Neither was anyone before him so heartless and cruel that he would do this to the retired. Fidesz-KDNP government in recent years [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why don't you give it back?]] It has increased pensions by 33 percent, and we will continue to work to ensure that the purchasing value of pensions, which has already increased by 10 percent, can continue to increase further. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Look at the inflation figures!]] So I'm rejecting all of your fear of retirement, but at least we can see what the Democratic Coalition would do if it were on the government. You, honourable Member, have always been taken from the Hungarian families, either during the time of the Bokros package or during the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány. When there was a problem with your economic policy, it was the Hungarian families who drank it, because in every case they were taken from them, whether a one-year child or a tax allowance for a first and a second child in full, or a tax allowance for a third child for their housing loans, always, always, in every case, those funds were taken from people and families because of your fault. However, while Hungarian families were doing so, they doubled the price of electricity and tripled the price of gas. [[Zsolt Gréczy: And why were more children born?]] To make the situation of Hungarian families even more difficult. Every time we make an important decision, we launch a national consultation [[Dr. Lajos Oláh:]] that's how it happened. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Three hundred thousand children were born then, and 90 children were not born with you!]] more than 95 percent of Hungarian people said that we are raising family support [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why isn't a child born?]] [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why isn't a child born?]] [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why isn't a child born?]] which are linked to work. Therefore, we have radically increased the family tax relief. Therefore, we will continue to stick to what the Hungarian people say. (Zsolt Gréczy: Why isn't a child born?) The doubling of family support that has happened over the past period has gone in the direction that the Hungarian people have chosen to increase employment-related subsidies. We will continue to take the path set by the people, and we will continue to increase family support, we would not spend it on migration, like you and your European allies (Gréczy Zsolt: Why is there no child?) but to Hungarian families. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Where is the child?]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-42	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: " Will there be an industrial park in the area of Elvira Major or in its immediate neighbourhood? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-11-43	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, In Hungary, there is a traditional agricultural area that is even more valuable than Kishantos. And they're planning an amazing barbarity against him, unfortunately. The Magyar Kertészeti Porcítésítősítóközök Nonprofit Zrt. I'm talking about Elvira Major. Elvira Major is the largest stone-shell gene bank in Central Europe. For 70 years, 2,200 items have been guarded and studied here. This research institute is a Hungarian national treasure, and it is an unprecedented asset at European level. The value of Elvira Major is invaluable, as almost every nursery and fruit plantation in Hungary can be traced through them. The Fidesz city management, however, wants to create an industrial park in its place within the framework of a real estate business, perhaps in its immediate vicinity. Since 2005, it has been a recurring news of what kind of interest group would like to profit from hundreds of hectares of major. We would like to put an end to this, since the current management does not consider either the major gene bank or its gardening value, but only the property. That's why we started collecting signatures to declare the major a Hungaricum, a protected area at the same time. Several LMP activists successfully prevented the decision of the General Assembly in spring 2018 to destroy the major by means of a reclassification process, and now we want Elvira Major, the area that is the value of all of us, and the area around it, to be permanently safe. Please inform and give an exact answer as to whether there will be an industrial park in or near Elvira Major, whether the Hungarian Kertészeti Porcelain Material Nonprofit Zrt. is planned. The site or its immediate neighbourhood in Érd shall be classified as an industrial park. Thank you for your reply.
u2019-03-11-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, answers the question. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that I have the opportunity to confirm orally: Elvira Major in Érd is a crucial area for the Hungarian fruit sector, both in terms of breeding, research and genetic conservation. This position is also reflected in the Government's decision to support the economic development objectives of the city of Érd. In this decision, the Government invites the Minister of National Development to act with the interests of the Hungarian fruit sector in the establishment of an industrial park planned under the "Modern Cities" programme and to examine other accessible areas outside the area used by the Fruit Research Institute, where the development can be achieved. I would like to inform the Member that, acting in accordance with the Government's decision, the National Industrial Park Operator and Developer Zrt. it has not implemented the industrial park's development area in Elvira Major. The Fruit and Glory Research Institute of the National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre is operating and developing smoothly now and in the future. I hope that my information has answered the questions raised by the Member. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-46	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Justice:. Why doesn't the government publish OLAF reports in all cases? It's an address. In answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary will answer the question. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda. Here you go. [[12.30]]
u2019-03-11-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The other day, the Fidesz Attorney General Péter Polt failed to answer my immediate question about the publicity of OLAF reports. It seems that only the OLAF report that serves the interests of Fidesz is being published, but it remains a secret evidence of Fidesz's crimes. It is quite obvious that the report of Metro 4 was made public, and the same could not be done for the eliosic public lighting projects of István Tiborcz, Orbán-vő. When the issue becomes embarrassing even by fidesz standards, they will give up EU funding for the Elios projects, which means that Tiborczék's 13 billion will be covered by Hungarian taxpayers' money. That is why people have the right to know what the OLAF report found, which led Fidesz to flee. Benedek Jávor, Member of the European Parliament of Dialogue, has been trying to find out the truth about this matter since 2015. As a member of the EP's Committee on Budgetary Control, Jávor Benedek gained insight into the Incriminated Report and found that there was serious systemic fraud in almost all of Elios' projects. Secretary of State, what is the reason for OLAF's report on Metro 4 being made public, but not in the Elios case? Why doesn't the government publish OLAF reports on all cases? And this was intended for the original recipient, the Minister of Justice: if he becomes EU-proof, will he continue to represent the interests of the corrupt Fidesz and the Orbán family instead of the interests of Hungarian taxpayers and European taxpayers? Thank you very much.
u2019-03-11-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-11-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We have become accustomed to trying to distract attention by slipping away from the moral crisis and scandals of the pro-immigration opposition. [[Gergely Harvester: Elios! Darkness!]] Public lighting development projects have been used as campaign tools to achieve their policy objectives. Now, at the time of the right and left, it is no different. As the elections to the European Parliament are approaching, they want to cover it up by giving full support to immigration in Brussels and on the domestic stage. They have already proved this when they wanted to undermine the quota referendum in 2016 when they did not stand up for Hungary in the debate on the Sargentini report, but they also proved that they supported Frans Timmermans in hand. [[Bence of Turdai: Answer the question!]] Brussels' ideas on migrant credit cards, migrant visas, resettlement frameworks and cutting of Hungarian funds. Honourable Congressman, I must say that the facts speak clearly against your abuse. The critical projects have been implemented. Thanks to the support of KEOP, modern public lighting has been built for about 1.2 million inhabitants of 35 settlements. The National Bureau of Investigation examined the related projects for months before finding that there was no crime. And the false news is that we would lose EU funds is a net misdirection of Hungarian citizens. Hungary utilized and utilized the full framework of the KEOP program for the last cent of developments and developments. You, on the other hand, are calling for the disclosure of politically motivated OLAF reports without being able to justify the legality of their own management to the State Audit Office. [[Gergely Harvesto: You forgot to answer! Bence of Turdai: Answer me!]] And if you've brought the M4 metro case here, I suggest you ask your allies, MSZP, or your faction partner, Sándor Burány, about the causes of the damage of HUF 166 billion. They must be able to provide in-house insight into the complex issues of Metro 4's investment, the biggest corruption scandal in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-50	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Gergely Harvesto: Where have you been? There was no answer!]] Dear Parliament, György Hubay and Mónika Dunai, representatives of Fidesz, would like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What is the significance of the aviation industry in Hungary? It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor.
u2019-03-11-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, January news is that Lufthansa Group's aircraft repair and maintenance company, Lufthansa Technik, is setting up a service centre in Miskolc. The 43 billion HUF investment in 20,000 square meters of land creates nearly 400 new jobs, increasing the number of 2350 workers in the aviation service industry. It can now be said that one of Europe's largest maintenance repair centres will be in Miskolc. This is good news for Miskolc and its region, but good news for the people of Budapest and the people around Liszt Ferenc Airport, as it is well known that Liszt Ferenc Airport has been overcrowded for a very long time. This overcrowding can be reduced in several ways, including by developing the aviation industry and the industries serving it in various regions of the country. The investment could further increase the performance of the sector, whose production value exceeded HUF 100 billion last year, and we exported almost 95 percent of the products produced. In particular, development can also be seen as a major success from the point of view of the company's global investigation of potential investment sites, and finally Miskolc's choice, including through advanced infrastructure, competitive business environment, qualified workforce and a favourable investment environment created by Miskolc leadership. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you how important the aviation industry is in Hungary. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-03-11-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The aviation industry, or, as the official category says, the aviation manufacturing and repair industry is today a growing sector in the world at an increasing pace, and, as the representative woman mentioned in her speech, Hungary is one of the great winners of this process. In recent years, a number of investments have come to Hungary that have given new impetus to the sector. For example, in 2016 we handed over the new Aeronautics Centre of the Lufthansa Technik in Ferihegy, and one of the world's 100 most important military companies, RUAG decided in 2017 to manufacture the aircraft stem elements belonging to Airbus 320 and Borbardier aircraft at its plant in Eger. Last December, we announced that the largest air and military company in Europe, the Airbus Group, is setting up a production plant for helicopters in Hungary. Therefore, dynamic development in the sector can be seen and seen, and one investment attracts the other. Accordingly, in 2017 the production value of aircraft production and repair exceeded HUF 50 billion after nearly 50 percent increase. Last year, this industry showed an even greater momentum, the performance of the sector has doubled, and its value has exceeded 105 billion forints last year, i.e. from 50 billion to 105 billion. Moreover, what is a special pleasure is that the sector produces high added value jobs and creates such jobs. This is indicated by the fact that this 105 billion HUF has been achieved by the industry in Hungary with 2300 employees, i.e. that the number of employees is low compared to the industry, and we are still working on making as many of these investments as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-54	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Do not restrict artificial insemination. It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-03-11-55	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, I don't want to give you a lecture on the demographic disaster that's coming. I don't want to argue with you. I want to ask. I ask the Government of Hungary not loudly, but hard and firmly on behalf of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots. When a man has the divine grace to see his own sweet child come into the world, no matter how many times he experiences it, he will never forget these moments. If you can experience the miracle of birth and hold that long-awaited baby in your arms, you'll be able to reevaluate everything you've ever thought about the course of the world. [[12.40]] If you can see the match of your life, as it takes into your hands the pledge of your common immortality, you will realize that this little alien will be your greatest happiness for the rest of your life, if it is given, if you can live to see it. According to the law of the great numbers, on our way here today, we have all passed a fellow human being who has struggled or struggled with the problem of infertility to this day, with the often unworkable psychological pain and pain that although he wants to experience these feelings more than anything else in the world, it is not possible for some medical reason. If he can, why can't I? Only in the rarest case does this bitterness drive these couples into helpless resignation. They're going through a series of treatments, interventions, therapies, month after month, hoping that, well, maybe now, and then when nothing happens, eventually these people will join the long line of people waiting for artificial insemination. I speak for them now, for these 300 thousand barren couples, on their behalf, I ask you not to restrict these artificial inseminations and to remove these performance limits. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-11-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-11-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On the basis of various studies, about one in every seven couples in Hungary today are struggling with the problem that the Member spoke about, that for some biological reason, they do not seem to have children, and therefore our growing task is to help young Hungarian couples in various fertility treatments. In recent years, you may have followed, too, honourable Member, which is why the government has made a lot of decisions on a very large scale. The first and important step was to increase the public funding for fertility treatments from 70 percent to 90 percent, which is extremely high. The second step, which is also a great help for barren couples, is now that Hungarian health insurance finances five more cycles for the first child and four more cycles for the next child. This means that there are not many countries in Europe where there are similar countries, in Belgium there are similar countries, but only in the first intervention. By the way, we may finance one of the most interventions in Hungary, so that we can overcome the biological barriers for those who want to have children. In addition, in order to have greater capacity, as much as possible, and as close as possible to anyone's place of residence, there is no need to travel to Budapest or other major cities, so the government has allocated 7.8 billion forints to enable state institutions, especially clinics, to create new and new fertility centres, to buy new equipment, new technologies, more precise technologies, and even more to introduce technologies that offer as little physical burden as possible and offer the greatest success. Therefore, this significant amount, which was translated for this purpose, we hope that the following will provide exactly as many opportunities for barren couples as it did a few years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-58	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, vice-president of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: what will be the fate of the Kiserdő? It's an address. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2019-03-11-59	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In my constituency, Kispesten and Pesterzsébet, but also in several districts of Budapest, such as Ferencváros, Kőbány and Csepel, many are concerned about the fate of a major green area of the capital, the so-called Kiserdő. Self-conscious citizens who are concerned about the future of their environment have created a residential group called "Little Forest Protectors." With their questions, they also turned to National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. and the President of the Republic, organizing several events and forums. Hundreds of interested parties appeared and expressed their views. To sum up, Mr Secretary of State, the problem is that the planned new Danube bridge, called the Galvani Bridge, is affected by its leading and connecting roads, and may affect the Kiserdő (Little Forest) along the Boundary Road, and even previously it was known of plans that would have resulted in the partial or even complete elimination of the Kiserdő. This civil initiative not only protests, I share this protest myself, and I also represent its views, but it has also developed an alternative solution involving skilled engineers and professionals. At the same time, it is seen that decision-makers do not take their views into account, or at least did not receive any feedback from them. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State exactly what they are planning. Are you planning in any way what I was talking about, and are your plans in any way affecting this green area, the Little Forest? When will the Little Forest Patrolers and their supporters receive accurate and detailed documentation, as well as their developed, technically sound alternative proposals, be taken into account? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-03-11-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Orbán will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-11-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, We believe that conditions are in place for Budapest to be the most successful and attractive capital in Europe, the city is at the door of unprecedented development, and we hope that the most successful era of the city has ever been to us in the coming decades. In the context of the problem that you have raised, which is due to this developmental curve, I can inform you, as you mentioned, that an international design contest has been launched, and as a result the design of the new South Danube bridge, which was selected from Rákóczi Road, He'd connect South Pest, Chapel and South Buda to the south. If this bridge was built, it would relieve downtown bridges by 40,000 cars a day and the traffic of Üllői út by 6-8 thousand. With the construction of the bridge, an organic, living connection would be created between South Pest, North Csepel, and South Buda from the opening stage of M1-M7 to Jászberényi út. The bridge would be equipped with biking, walking and community transport, tram. There is a section of the work, as you have mentioned, where special care must be taken, attention to local conditions, this is the groves, forested lane between the Wekerletelep and the József Attila settlement, the section of the Kiserdő, where the government, István Tarlós, Mayor and Máté Kocsis, called for a halt to the planning process. We think that the tools of community planning should also be used, together with the two districts involved, with the residents there, to find a solution that is good for everyone. For us, for the government, it is important to have plans that will result in better benefits for everyone, a better quality, easy-to-reach green area, a public park for residents, and a much smaller traffic on the border compared to today's conditions, and more separated from the residential area. So we believe that only plans can be made that take into account the interests of both the József Attila housing estate and the inhabitants of the Wekerletelep. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask for your constructive cooperation and support in this matter. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-62	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question about rent apartments instead of eviction! It's an address. In answering this question, Prime Minister László Trócsányi appointed Minister of Justice, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Pál Völner, State Secretary will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-11-63	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Last year, you evicted nine families from your homes every day. This is not what we say. This is what the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty says. Every day, you put nine families on the street by going wherever you can see, in the year of the so-called families. Among the evicted families, there were crowds that also raised small children. The state asset manager also evicted families with small children. If this was the year of families, how's this year gonna be? Ferenc Gyurcsány announced a 7+1-point family protection program last week, including a long-claimed amendment by DK to ban the eviction of families with small children. We've already tabled this bill once, but you cynically voted it off. [[12.50]] I myself have asked you several times on a written question to consider. You are not fighting Brussels, not Soros, not against some foreign power, but against Hungary and the Hungarian families. During wars, fewer children are born, and the country has been at war for nine years. Because of you. That's why little children are born. You are at war with Europe and with the Hungarians in Europe; we want peace and a European Hungary. You are on the side of their oligarchs and slave-holders; we are on the side of Hungarian families, workers, the elderly. For them, we created our seven-point package for the Hungarians in Europe. It's patriotic politics today, because a patriot isn't banging his breasts, he's helping our countrymen. And not just on rich families and children, as you usually do with the law. That is why we need legal protection against eviction, and that is why we need the social housing system for all European Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-11-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-11-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The current government has done everything in its power to alleviate the damage caused by the previous socialist-liberal eras. I would like to stress that you also have clear ideas in the area of home creation. The aim is to give every Hungarian family a home of their own. The family home creation discount is extremely popular, since its introduction more than 97 thousand family applications have been accepted, worth HUF 282 billion. The state also supports housing in the apartments. The operation of the asset manager to deal with housing problems of insolvent lenders is the largest social housing scheme in terms of the size of the period since the regime change. Within this framework, 36,000 public apartments were created worth HUF 151 billion and can be bought back at a discount according to the latest decisions. I would just like to point out that the governments that started in 2002-2010 spent a total of HUF 270 million on social housing, below the scale of the efforts that the government is now making. We introduced housing support in the previous cycle, and additional tax incentives support the development and maintenance of corporate rentals, working accommodations. The government is doing a lot to improve housing conditions. Honourable Congressman, I would like to remind you that your prime minister, Bajnai Gordon, has said about foreign exchange creditors that the property must be sold and moved smaller if it cannot be maintained. The only thing you need to see is that the left did nothing for the Hungarian families during its governance. Socialists are responsible for allowing foreign exchange credit [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Sigmond Járai made it possible!]] and put more than a million families in a hopeless situation. That is why we do not understand these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-66	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. When are you planning to raise the unchanged civil servants and government officials' salary to 60,000 forints? It's an address. In answering this question, Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, has appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office. At the request of Minister Balázs Orbán, State Secretary will answer the question. I give you the floor, Congresswoman, and in the meantime, I hand over the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. Here you go. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2019-03-11-67	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Act on Government Administration came into force on 1 March. The legislation, which is intended to settle the working conditions of officials working in the offices of central administration, contains a number of provisions which adversely affect workers. Thus, the working time for official workers will rise to nine hours a day, in which the half-hour lunch break will not be counted, but may be increased to 12 hours a day without any compensation. The fundamental freedom is reduced from 25 days to 20 days, and the number of days to be taken away from it is no longer determined by the number of years spent in work, but by the position of office; and even cafetheria is withdrawn from the employees of the county and capital government offices. Meanwhile, this year, in the ninth year of building a work-based society, the civil servants' and government officials' salary base remained unchanged from the 2008 level, remaining at HUF 38 650. Moreover, in 2019 it is not expected to change the previously established civil servant pay table and adjust it to the current minimum wage. There is no specific increase in civil servants' wages, but only those whose current civil servants' salaries do not exceed the newly set minimum. You've been building a work-based society for the ninth year. I ask, therefore, Secretary of State, is a work-based society for you to legislate slave labor? The LMP has repeatedly submitted to Parliament the increase of the civil servant's salary to 60,000 forints, and you have swept this every time without disturbing yourself. I ask you, when are you planning to raise the unchanged civil servants and government officials' salary to 60,000 forints for more than ten years? And when is the public wage bill planned to be adjusted to the current minimum wage? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-03-11-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-11-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of course, we know that there is still much to do, but in recent years there have been significant wage increases in all areas, in the competition and in the public sector, as opposed to the time when the government of your former party was in power when a month's wages were taken from civil servants and civil servants. The minimum wage has more than doubled compared to 2010, real wages have increased by more than 36 percent, more than 400 000 people's wages have increased in social care, education and health. The salary of policemen and soldiers increased by 50 percent. [[Márta Demeter: It's not true!]] , Posta, MÁV, regional transport centres and water utilities also received wage increases. You must have missed the fact that, along with the adoption of the Government Administration Act, government officials working in central administration received an average wage increase of 30 per cent, with retroactive effect until 1 January, this wage increase being paid in April. Moreover, a similar 30 percent average wage increase occurred in the territorial administration in 2016 and 2017. These figures must have escaped your attention because they are not from a codification technical point of view on the basis of wages linked to the salary base, but on the basis of a separate wage table in a separate law, so the Hungarian government can, I mean to you, raise wages that otherwise does not increase the amount of the civil servant salary fund. Moreover, in the case of municipalities, the municipalities in good condition of tax power have also carried out significant wage increases in the last few years, and in terms of tax power, the authorities below average are being assisted by a HUF 11 billion non-refundable budget support available on the tender. I'd like to make up for two more imprecise claims. The institution of supplementary leave is available to all civil servants and the working time of government officials is not increased under the new law. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff:. The government has admitted that outside the official campaign period, Fidesz is pursuing a party campaign disguised as government information for the benefit of Fidesz? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, on behalf of the Prime Minister. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It seems that the new electoral law with the new Fidesz electoral districts is no longer enough to win the Fidesz election, it is not enough to invade public television, radio, county newspapers to send out from the Fidesz headquarters which opposition party, which opposition politician should be discredited. Several thousands of Ukrainian-Hungarian dual citizens declared to the same address were not enough before the election, many of whom did not even speak Hungarian. This was not enough; a government propaganda of a hundred billion was needed to serve the party's political goals. It's an unauthorized advantage. In his recent BBC interview, the Secretary of State admitted that Fidesz is campaigning under the cover of government information, which is illegal campaign funding. [[13.00]] Of course, we know that neither the National Election Committee nor the State Audit Office will investigate this, and they only deal with the Hungarian opposition. I'm not gonna get any answers to my questions, just serialization and migrantism. But what would it be like to have real government information, a social advertisement? Let me give you a hand. At the European level, we are the hosts of life expectancy. Maybe we should run an information campaign on this. In men over the age of 60, respiratory cancer is the primary cause of death, and in older women the disease of the circulatory system is the leading cause of death. It's because of smoking and alcohol. Maybe we should run an information campaign on this. Right now, there are 8,000 people with colon cancer, and it would be curable if they knew about it, but they don't go for screening. Maybe we should run an information campaign on this. If hundreds of billions had been spent on this, the lives of thousands of Hungarians would have been extended. You didn't do that. Why not?
u2019-03-11-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The only thing I can think of is the fronthand of all this nonsense that you've been saying in two minutes. Let's see what happens. First of all, the Hungarian people have the government representatives there and the government here, and you are where you are. I understand you're trying to explain this with all kinds of nonsense, but that doesn't make you right. The poster campaign is an information campaign. The Hungarian Government has the right, duty and duty to inform the Hungarian people of what is being prepared in Brussels. We are talking about at least seven points here, but unfortunately, this list is only expanding, of course, this is something that the pro-immigration politicians in Brussels are trying to deny, but the blind can also see that they are lying, that they are wrong. It's not a party matter, I'd like to tell you. [[Gergely Harvestó: No, of course, no, not at all.]] This shows that, by the way, you could join, and the opposition could support this, because this is a national issue, and illegal immigration is a national security issue, but you do not by chance support it, because you are always very diligently attacking and criticising matters that are important for the Hungarian people. [[László Varju intervenes.]] And how Brussels is lying, by the way, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at the end of the week the biggest pro-immigration lie has been found. With regard to the UN Global Migration Package, it has been said for a whole year that this should not be criticised, nor should it really be dealt with, because it will not be mandatory. Nine EU Member States did not vote for this. Then, after they said that it would not be mandatory that nine EU Member States did not vote for it, it turned out that in Brussels the Legal Service is working in a secret, narrowly wanted document on how to find the legislation to make the UN's global migration package mandatory for all EU countries. These are your friends. You're exactly the same as them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Zsolt Szabó, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: "Our country is still an attractive target for investors! How does Bosch's new investment help the economy and the region to recover? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Szabó has the floor, and then Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, will answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-11-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Ministry of Foreign Affairs set Hungarian foreign economic interests and investment promotion as a priority goal. Thanks to the large-scale interstate agreements, these developments have a very economic stimulus, and as a result we are an attractive target of international investment. Dear House, It was recently announced that the Bosch Group will further develop its 60th plant for automotive electronic components. During the HUF 9.6 billion investment, Robert Bosch Electronics Kft. acquires new, more modern production tools to produce technology tools and components for driving the future at Bosch's 60i plant, which are essential for electric driving. Bosch is one of the most employed companies in Hungary, whose automotive electronics sector now employs around 5,500 people in Hungary. The company has a major role to play in the fact that last year Hungarian GDP grew by 4.8 percent annually, and today more than 4 million 480 thousand people can work in the country. With the current investment, Bosch will create the third investment worth more than or equal to HUF 10 billion. Such and similar successes are not independent of the economic environment that Hungary has been able to create and that the Hungarian economy is stable and predictable. The Hungarian economy has been strengthened, the public debt is declining and, thanks to tax cuts and wage increases, more and more remain with the Hungarian families. Dear Secretary of State, How does Bosch's new investment help to develop the economy and the region? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Currently about 6,000 German companies employ more than 300 thousand Hungarians, the German investor community is the most populous of our country. As far as Boscht is concerned, Bosch's activities in Hungary are in many ways an excellent example of the processes and changes that take place in the Hungarian economy. The German company, which has been present in the country since the beginning of the last century, is now one of the largest foreign investors in Hungary, as you referred to in your speech and one of your biggest employers. The fact that in recent months, exactly in the last three months, we have been able to report three new major Bosch investments worth some HUF 10 billion each, clearly indicates how this company thinks about Hungary and the Hungarian investor environment. Continuous improvements and reinvestments are indestructible evidence of investor confidence and satisfaction in our country. Investors, just as Bosch, with positive investment decisions in favour of Hungary, constantly acknowledge the economic results of Hungary and the economic environment that is absolutely favourable to investment. The presence of Bosch in Hungary is the best example of the fact that the Hungarian economy is characterised by double expectations. The German industrial giant plays a role in the reindustrialization of Hungary at the same time, and is at the forefront of the process that we call the transition from the era of the, made in Hungary to the era of, into Hungary, so we place the emphasis on development. Hungarian economic policy focuses on high value added jobs, and Bosch has been a pioneer in Hungary for decades. Hungary is an important part of Bosch's global research and development network, which is well understood by the fact that in 2017 the company spent HUF 55 billion on research and development in Hungary and employs over 2,300 people in R &amp; D. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: That's how we get to be the last! Or why doesn't the government do anything about seed production? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor, and Mr Sándor Farkas will reply. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As you know, until 2004, our country was practically at the top of the world in seed production, and given some indicators, we can say that we were world leaders in this area. From this point of view, therefore, it is quite incomprehensible how we could reach today's conditions, when there is virtually a question as to whether there will be such activity in our country in the future. It was customary before that experts from Eastern and Western Europe came here to integrate the processes here into their own national technologies and processes. A very good example of this is Russia and Belarus, where Hungarian methods have been taken over, and by learning this, we can now say that world-class breeding is taking place in these countries. What is here in Hungary? Today, a decade ago, virtually no investment was made at the experimentation stations. There is a significant fall in the human population, 20 percent less work than before, and these employees left because the Hungarian government offered them neither moral nor financial respect. Mr Secretary of State also knows very well that people cannot be transferred from the Public Works Programme to these posts; this is an area of serious expertise. [[13.10]] That is why I say we have to blow a wake-up call, because if this material and moral appreciation does not come to the workers here, there will be irreversible damage. It's not just a setback for ourselves, let me set the example for the Czech Republic. Perhaps here we can admit among ourselves that this is not a specific agricultural country. Twenty years ago, they were reverse proportions. Currently, there are 30 such sites and pilot sites in the Czech Republic, and not half of them are at this level. So I ask the Secretary of State what kind of strategy do you have? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to save the Hungarian seed production. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-11-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-11-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reassure you, honourable Member, that the production, research and control of seed in our country is not in jeopardy. Protection and development of plant and biological funds remains a key government objective. I would like to support this with the following figures. About 316 thousand tons of seed grown by Hungarian farmers on nearly 113 thousand hectares will make our country the sixth largest seed propagating material in the world. I think that fact speaks for itself. Every year we sell nearly 100,000 tons of seed on the external markets, which represents a HUF 100 billion turnover for the sector. The seed sector is an innovative sector, only the continuous renewal strengthens, it also ensures competitiveness and prosperity. The research and development activities of our Hungarian research institutes are of particular importance. This is also confirmed by the fact that our Hungarian-breededed varieties and hybrids have been at the forefront of state experiments for many years. The domestic system of experimentation works contrary to the assessment of the Member, since this year, based on the results of the Nébih variety experimentation, 35 new varieties of the wheat variety have been recognised by the state, and the number of new varieties of hybrid plants is close to this magnitude. In reply to the written question made earlier by the Member, he referred to a letter of business. I do not consider the projection of the entire seed monitoring system to be justified. The control of the activity of the seed sector is subject to an official control seed monitoring system, the kft. on the quality of seeds marketed by the Member States [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] relevant studies are being conducted, and the results of the official examination will be able to determine who has failed and to what extent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-11-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. New Day, new terminations with the title of the new chapter on the health failure of Fidesz. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor and Minister of State Bence Rétvári will reply. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There are few health indicators in Hungary in which we are at the forefront of the continent. Unfortunately, there is another one that he called attention to most in the days or weeks to the speech of vascular surgeons, and this is the number of amputations carried out in Hungary. In Hungary, the number of amputations due to circulatory disturbances also reaches 7,000, in which Hungary is two and a half times the average of the continent. By the way, if we look at data from neighbouring countries, even in Slovakia, this figure is significantly smaller, with 25 percent less. This also includes the number of amputations due to hospital infections or poor purity conditions. It is also a nightmare that, where appropriate, the insurance company will pay more for an amputation in the middle of the thigh than for the implantation of a bridging vessel or for the completion of a bridge made from its own vessel. However, the problem is not new. It's not new that I miss vascular surgeons, it's not new that I miss GPs, nurses. Nor is it new that the financing of health care is, by the way, very unacceptable. We can see this, and unfortunately now we can see and perceive that he treats doctors as replacements, which, by the way, we know we can't, because a gastroenterologist never becomes a good vascular surgeon. That is precisely why I ask Mr Secretary of State when vascular surgeons will finally want it, but I could list the situation of GPs, doctors, nurses, improve their working conditions, arrange social security funding for the interventions they provide. When will you finally realize that there is a need for higher funding for health care, a reflection on the support for medical interventions, and an immediate, radical increase in healthcare workers' salaries? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2019-03-11-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will give you the answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First, on a factual issue, I would like to correct you with regard to the financing to which the State is providing funding. You mentioned mid-femur amputation. The state provides HUF 545,000 in funding for this. On the other hand, if you look at vascular surgery, a vascular surgery with stent or homograft will cost almost double, HUF 944,000, so hospitals are, of course, encouraged to save those limbs as often as possible or save individual parts of the person, and not amputation is what the government would use financial means to encourage hospitals to do. I wanted to use this example to clearly disprove what you just said. I would also like to give you the good news that today there are far fewer doctors who want to go abroad than in your period of government, about 60 percent less. [[Interviews from Dialogue and DK.]] I would also like to say the good news to the invoking Member that much more people in Hungary are fortunately young people, in 2010, there are thousands of graduates, now more than 1,400 in health care schools each year and start their medical activities. I will also tell you, honourable Member, that, as a result, the number of doctors working in Hungary has also increased noticeably. While 33 943 doctors worked in Hungary in the last year of your administration, 33 943, this has risen to 39 132 in the last year, so there are more doctors involved in the healing work. To a reasonable extent, we are talking about an increase of at least 4-5 thousand. The government has taken a lot of measures. In the Act on the Protection of Non-Smokers, we are precisely preventing the development of these various diseases, circulatory diseases, the introduction of chips tax, the introduction of the cafeteria decree, the introduction of daily physical education is precisely intended to increase the number of years spent in health, and these diseases should be as late and as severely as possible. This is also due to the fact that since 2010 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the average life expectancy of Hungarians increased by 1.4 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-11-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Appreciation for home careers! It's an address. Congressman László Varju has the floor. Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-11-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. I'll let you in on a secret to support your demographic efforts: abundant child sacrifice is the property of a long period of peace. In times of war, fewer children are born, and this country has been at war for the ninth year because of you. That's why little children are born. You are at war with Europe and with the Hungarians in Europe, and we want peace and peace in Europe for Hungary. You're fighting a war against the country, we're fighting for our country. You are on the side of your oligarchs and slaver multinationals, we are on the side of Hungarian families, workers and the elderly. We have created our 7+1-point family protection package for them and for the Hungarians in Europe, which you have recently learned from Ferenc Gyurcsány. Is there a family that needs protection more than a child, a brother, a parent, in a situation requiring special care 24 hours a day? Is it dare to have children or to have another child, a family whose members care day and night for help that cannot be called miserable? True patriotism would be a fair supply of such families. That is why we support and put in the package our demand for home care to be recognised as employment and rewarded with minimum wage at least. Why are you slowing it down, slowing it down by any means possible and impossible? Secretary of State, why are Hungarian families not important to you? Thank you very much.
u2019-03-11-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you are, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Ferenc Gyurcsány gave you the task of explaining one of his speeches last week, but he doesn't even come in to support you here. [[Gergely Harvestó: Where is the Prime Minister?]] So much for the relationship between DK. [[13.20]] Ferenc Gyurcsány had more than 20 programs when he was Prime Minister [[Gergely Arató: If the Prime Minister does not run abroad all the time...]] This is probably 7+1 because it has already announced a seven-point program, as well as 30-point, 10-point, 100-point, and how many of the 20-point programs it has already announced in the country have not come true. I believe that we can assume, with regard to the honesty and credibility of what you have done here on 12 December, honourable Member, because in the last years of your government, when you were a secretary of state in that government, there was no increase in the rates of care. On the other hand, in the previous period, we were able to provide a nearly 60 per cent increase to the most seriously disadvantaged relatives at home, who spent 20 years caring for their child at home, with a pension supplement of 50 thousand forints. As a follow-up, last year, on 12 December, we presented a legislative amendment that raised the care fee for everyone and introduced the child care fee. This means that by 2022, the prize will increase by 30 percent for all those who care for their children at home, from 1 January to 100,000 forints this year. [[Laszlo Varju: Minimum wage now!]] and up to the minimum wage by 2022. You were here in Parliament that day, and no opposition Member supported this proposal. You stand up, you speak, you say different sentences, but still, when you have to vote on this issue, no opposition Member took the trouble, no Member was so committed to this subject that they once pressed the yes button and helped these people. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Laszlo Varju: Minimum wage now! The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to tell you what the National Alliance of Autists has sent you: people with disabilities and their families have just enough problems and will not help them if they receive untrue information, for example, from political intentions. [[Gergely Harvesto: They said that about themselves!]] As the MEOSZ, as the autists have asked, do not use them for political purposes. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: "What are the environmental authorities grinding into government offices if they turn a blind eye to environmental damage? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor, and State Secretary Sándor Farkas will answer. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-03-11-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. The building fever of domestic entrepreneurs, like a tornado, sweeps through the most beautiful parts of our country, sacrificing our most important natural resources, making the environment worse. They can do this without problems, because the government either does nothing about it or helps this process with its specific instruments, such as making it a priority investment from an economic point of view. In addition to the capital city, the whole of Balaton has now fallen into the hands of the Fidesz region. For example, LMP reported years ago against the environmental and illegal construction of the yacht port in Balatonfenyves, but it was dismissed with unacceptable justification. The same is happening now in Balatonakali, where the site of a real estate company building a waterfront villa park and a hotel, outside the former camping site in Balatonakali, was destroyed. According to the news, the owner denies having done it, although he was supposedly authorised to renovate the beach wall, clean the beach, clean the cane. However, Lake Balaton is a priority area for conservation and protection of birds. No authorisation shall be granted for the destruction of reeds. Nothing could have been done here except for the treatment detailed in the conservation plan that would endanger the reed stock. Despite this, the reed was destroyed on the coast concerned from the beginning of February, as the locals indicated to the authorities. However, the job has not been stopped, but there has been no official complaint, only the May Other has filed a complaint in this case. Mr. Secretary. Can we expect an official investigation into the case, why hasn't the authority acted immediately to stop the cane slaughter? What did the investor actually get permission to do, who and when to check or verify it? Is it expected that the recent decision of the Constitutional Court will restore the independence of the environmental authority? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-03-11-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas, will answer you. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Veszprém County Government Office of the Veszprém District Office has carried out ex officio official controls on the destruction of reeds in Balatonakal. As part of the official inspection, an on-the-spot visit was carried out in accordance with the relevant legislation and within the time limit. The decision to file a criminal complaint shall be subject to the result of the nature conservation and penalty procedure to be carried out. It is necessary to clarify precisely the facts during the procedure, including the extent to which damage to nature has been caused. The owner of the property was authorized by the Central Transdanubian Water Management Directorate, as you mentioned in part, to clean the pre-property bed, renovate the beach wall and do cleaning reed cutting. Checking this is the task and eligibility of the beach manager. The environmental and nature protection authority is still independent. The Constitutional Court has stated, I quote, that the integration of green authorities into government offices alone cannot be considered as a step backwards from the protected level of environmental protection if the authority is addressed, the government commissioner or the head of the district office does not assign environmental aspects to other sectoral interests in the decision-making process. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As can be seen from my answer to the above questions, the environmental authority immediately responded to the environmental damage incident and initiated an ex officio procedure. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. And Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-95	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You want the nation's day laborers, the 150,000 educators, to become servants of the Fidesz government. On the one hand, the reality is that their local potentates have a bad eye for any government criticism, and, where appropriate, a like or division, especially in the case of a more decisive critical post, the teacher can easily find himself on the edge of the carpet, when the competent comrade Nersevik takes the question to him, which would have made a more normal party secretary ashamed to know who he was getting his salary from. On the other hand, over the past four years, a hundred billion dollars has been pulled out of the pocket of the Hungarian educator society. Teacher's wages now barely exceed 60 percent of the average salary. For four years, the same projection fund has caused a very serious wage tension today. The screening fund, which was previously tied to the minimum wage, has remained at HUF 101 500 since the beginning of 2015, is now very much separated from the minimum wage. Thus, a starting teacher is deprived of about 50,000 forints a month, and a master's educator on the field three decades ago is deprived of double that amount. The nation's gasman will make that much in ten or twenty seconds, but believe me, this is a good sum for a teacher. Is it a wonder that only 40 of a hundred graduate teachers begin this wonderful profession, and one third of them are lightning-stricken and quitting the profession? A successful society can only be built with investment in human capital, not with underpaid teachers, but with such wages, making the teaching profession attractive remains a dream. It is no coincidence that one of the best students, such as the Potter's graduates, chose this course from the 120 students. So I ask you, at least in next year's budget, are they planning to adapt the projection fund to the minimum wage. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-11-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I hope you will ask your new allies once again, honourable Member, why 15,000 teachers have been dismissed and why all teachers' wages have been reduced. If he's really brave, he'll ask them. You're conspiring with them now, so your program is none other than their program, which is closing schools, reducing the wages of teachers and firing teachers. In contrast, in recent years, we have sought to give honor to educators. Between 2013 and 2017, there was no OECD country where teachers' wages would have increased more than in Hungary. [[13.30]] We did this because we also consider the Hungarian future important, and one of the foundations of it is indeed the work of teachers and the recognition of teachers, which is why this year we spend more than HUF 606 billion more than 1.5 percent of GDP than what was planned for Hungarian education in 2010 in the budget adopted at the time. This, as well as the Klebelsberg Scholarship and the pedagogical career, which guaranteed a 50 percent increase for every Hungarian teacher on average, is one of the results of 7426 students who applied and received admissions to universities and colleges in 2012, and 7426 has now expanded to 9480. So, thank God, there's more of them coming up, palpable. Obviously, even now, if you've looked at the admissions numbers, you've seen that among the most beloved majors, thank God, there's still the teaching department. Of course, it also took about 700 more students each year to receive the Klebelsberg training scholarship, and now we have paid HUF 2.7 billion for a total of 2582 students' scholarships, precisely to ensure that the high-quality student candidates, the high-quality graduates, choose the teaching course as much as possible, so that there is a better supply in schools. And besides, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I also find it gratifying that many have received not only the average wage increase, but that more than 55,000 have been classified as educators from Teacher I. II. level, which also meant an additional 30 thousand HUF salary increase for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:, Will you be able to answer my questions on pensions? It's an address. Mr Lajos Korózs has the floor, and Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-99	Thank you very much. I fear that I have received the previous answer from the Secretary of State... because, please respectfully, I think that this genre of Parliament, that it is a question requiring a written answer, belongs to the category where a responsible politician becomes the Secretary of State or holds the answer with the signature of the Minister of State and stamp it, then it has a weight. Do you hear me, Mr. Secretary? ! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Relax. Calm down. Calm down, Congressman.]] I asked you a written question...
u2019-03-11-100	Congressman! Congressman! He had no reason to get so angry. [[Lajos Korózs, without sound: I asked three questions, in Hungarian, very clearly. According to the OECD study, all I asked you was...]] And I would like to warn you, Congressman, that as long as I speak, you will not get the floor. Congressman, I'm asking you to hold back, and you're trying to tell me all this, and I'm going to give you back the time, but you're going to try to ask me this question without anger, or I'm going to have to take it away from you. Here you go. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, behind the benches of his representatives: Shouldn't we be angry?]] Congresswoman, sit down, sit down, you look much better there. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I will not sit down...]]
u2019-03-11-101	So I asked the Secretary of State or the Minister three very simple questions. One of my questions was that, according to the OECD study, the OECD proposed to Hungary what measures should be taken in the pension system. I asked whether they were planning to introduce the basic pension proposed by the OECD. My second question was that, in view of the fact that there is no safety net like in Hungary, this study says that only in Mexico, Turkey and South Korea there is a safety net like in Hungary, where elderly people earn an allowance of around HUF 26 thousand. I asked whether they were willing to adjust the rate of annual pension increase to wage indexing, unlike the current inflation follow-up practice. The third was whether the employment constraints of the public sector were to be lifted, as the OECD suggested. The Minister's answer was all, please, but these three questions were not answered. So I'm gonna do another experiment, Mr. Secretary. One, two, three. Thank you.
u2019-03-11-102	Thank you. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-11-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you've started with style, let me start with style. I answered you before the agenda, and you brought Congressman Arato before you, and they started talking while I answered you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I was prepared to answer you. [[Péter Cseresnyés: And he went out earlier and didn't listen!]] And you put a human screen in front of you so you wouldn't hear it, not see it... [[Lajos Korózs is leaving the Chamber.]] At least take off your little clip, Congressman, before you go. [[Lajos Korózs, leaving the meeting room: I don't want to hear it!]] So, you put me in front of you, and in the last seconds of the question, you did the same thing you just did, standing up and going out so you couldn't hear the answer. Honourable Congressman, You can stick your ears in, you can do it like that. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] It's like he can't hear what we're reacting to, but I don't think if you're talking about style, it's not necessarily the most stylish. Since you too, honourable Member, are not here in the Chamber, but have been elected by the same electorate as us, I would like to say out of respect for the mandate of the voter, that the OECD report you are citing proposes that we abolish the 40" benefit of the women in order to build up and eliminate the possibility of community service. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Let's reduce the period. Our government will never assist or implement these proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, representative of DK, wishes to ask a question [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The screen!]] to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Congressman Gergely Harvesto has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-105	Dear House, I can't very well promise that the President expects me to be unmotivated after the Secretary of State disregarding Parliament and ignoring his obligations instead of responding to a opposition representative [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Away!]] Your questions, the one-and-a-half-minute answer, were personalized for a minute, in a rather unfair way. [[Laszlo Varju applauds. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But speaking of education, because I'm a pedagogical optimist, and if the Secretary of State is able to improve, even if he's shown little signs, I'm going to ask him that I understand that you're a work-based society. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] In his mind, they believe that no matter who he works for, just work, and otherwise, if many work, they're right, that it's good, but it doesn't matter what. Because it is not possible to make a good living from trench cleaning or road maintenance; it requires knowledge and learning to make a safe and carefree living, and you are robbing a large part of young people of learning. You know, Mr. Secretary, European Hungarians love their children. They don't want to have children without help, without success, without prospects; they want to give them a safe future, or knowledge. However, you have declared war on knowledge, and in this way you want to make sure that the children of European Hungarians are not allowed to go to higher education, are excluded from the language exams from higher education, and according to their latest plans, they want to take away their chances of going to high school. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You are at war against knowledge, you are at war against modern society, you are at war against our children. There will be no children, no new Hungarian youth, no people who will be able to create a modern society. So I'll ask the Secretary of State. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] how long they fight knowledge and Hungarian children.
u2019-03-11-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-11-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you very much, Congressman, for being free of all personalities. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] in the first part of your speech, thank you very much for setting an example for all of us. [[Gergely Harvesting: Like God Almighty!]] Honourable Congressman, How do we lock Hungarian students away from knowledge? For example, by increasing the student normative from HUF 119 thousand to HUF 166 thousand [[Gergely Harvesto: After eight years!]] Exactly so that we can help socially more difficult students. For example, by guaranteeing the textbook free of charge from first to now 12th grade, so that it does not mean another expenditure for families at the beginning of the year, this part of the cost of raising children is taken over by the state. But I could also mention the free children's meal, which is precisely for the purpose, honourable Member, that those who arrive either in kindergarten or in kindergarten before or later at school without having a good breakfast at home in the morning, and that is why they could not pay attention at school, will receive this from the state at school, which the family could not give them. And I could add to the list of Elizabeth's programmes and other initiatives that were all in the best interests of students and families raising children, so that as many students as possible could get the best education. [[13.40]] Of course, we are also familiar with your suggestions for education and knowledge when 15,000 teachers were dismissed. [[Gergely Harvestó: More from week to week.]] when an educational institution or its establishment was closed in 381 places. We can also remember when a month's wages were taken from all teachers, or we can remember the evergreen word or sentence you said when you said in 2006 that the training contribution was an important element of higher education reform. So you're struggling with tuition to get more knowledge. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Well, your speech was rather absurd, honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-108	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why is the EU more important to Hungary than the Orbán government? It's an address. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-03-11-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Climate change kicked the door at us. The bug invasion, the dries up Danube, the rising basic vegetables are all signs of this. Hungary is disproportionately negatively affected by climate change. CHAPTER XX Since the beginning of the century, the mid-temperature has risen to 1.3 degrees, compared to 0.8 degrees worldwide. I mean, this crisis is more than one-and-a-half times harsher. Does the Hungarian government finally recognise one of the greatest threats to the country, climate change, and is it willing to do anything about it now? Apparently not. The Orbán government has been continuously destroying the system of institutions protecting nature since 2010, supporting large farms that destroy soils rather than nature agriculture, blocking the spread of renewable energies, stealing the money for insulation of homes, destroying waste management, and a number of others. It was supposed to be a source. It would also continue in the future: EU grants will have first-rate targets for these areas in the next budget cycle 2021-27. In its preliminary opinion, the Commission set five policy objectives. Two of these are targeted directly at areas neglected by the government: low-carbon and greener Europe, and with the objectives of transport networks that are resilient. Europe and Hungary will either be green or there will be no. So I ask you: is the government willing to fight one of the biggest threats, climate change and the EU funds between 2021 and 27 to spend on these goals? So, to keep our country alive, not to fry, not to dry out, not to destroy indigenous flora and fauna? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-03-11-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-11-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You speak about any area of the government's work, you do nothing but make false claims and absurdities. An example of the incomprehensible nature of his accusation is that according to his oral question, the government is blocking the spread of renewable energy sources, even though the latest and largest solar power plant in Hungary, with a capacity of 20,3 megawatts, was handed over to Paks last week, on 5 March. Unlike your words, the fight against the negative effects of climate change and the sustainable development path have become an increasingly important issue for the government in recent years. Without effective action and effective adaptation, we cannot achieve the goal of Hungary being one of the five most livable countries in Europe by 2030. To this end, we have prepared and adopted, for example, the second national climate change strategy. Of course, the pro-immigration opposition felt that its political interests in the short term were more important than the future of the planet, and therefore you were not willing to vote in favour of the adoption and implementation of the strategy. In any case, Hungary will do what is required by action against climate change, even if our current emission situation in the European Union is otherwise favourable, since it is around 6 tonnes per capita below the European average over 8 tonnes per capita. The government is particularly concerned with investments in reducing energy use and increasing energy efficiency, putting renewable energy sources into work and carbon monoxide-free transport. In the context of climate change, there is a need for a comprehensive social shift with developments in future sectors. However, if it is important for you and your Member States to devote as much resources as possible to the fight against climate change, then stop supporting that political lobby [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Europe's main task is to introduce migrants and support migration. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Boring!]]
u2019-03-11-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Alexov Lyubomir, a national minority advocate, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Do they extend budget funding to run public libraries maintained by national authorities? The question will then be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Now it's for the minority advocate Alexov Lyubomir. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The 2011 National Rights Act 117. According to Section 2 (2) (b), the compulsory public task of national ethnic authorities is to maintain a network of national ethnic institutions to develop national cultural autonomy. In the area of ethnic cultural institutions, libraries carrying out ethnicity tasks promote access to a spiritual culture linked to nationality identity, the preservation, exercise and dissemination of language. Currently, there are three libraries maintained by national minority self-governments on the public library list led by the Ministry of Human Resources, but in addition, several national minority self-governments operate an institution which has, in particular, a library staff related to the language and literature of nationality and provides library services to users. The 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. However, law ignores the fact that institutions operating in the maintenance of national minority self-governments can also carry out public library public tasks, as the sectoral law and the fiscal law only provide budgetary support for the operation of a library for municipal authorities. National minority self-governments should not apply for budgetary funding for the provision of library tasks under either the sectoral law or the budgetary law, as this is only possible for municipal authorities. In this respect, they do not apply the provisions of the national minority law that the law on local authorities should also apply to national authorities. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Waiting for your reply, thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause for the ethnic advocates.]]
u2019-03-11-114	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Speaker, Dear House, I would like to thank the advocates for their activities, because I believe that Hungary has been quite effective in recent years, given that we have been looking at different cultural, public and educational institutions since 2010. After all, if I only look at how the number of institutions and schools maintained by national governments has increased, then we can see that there were 12 of them in 2010, there are 82 of them today. Thus, the number of institutions maintained by national authorities has increased sevenfold. Obviously, this also means a new task, a new institutional reservation, for national authorities as well. That is why, in addition to this increase, it is important that the funding for national minority applications will be HUF 2 billion in 2019, which represents a 40% increase in a year. So the State is also trying to provide additional funding in addition to normative funding, which is the same for a school. In fact, there is a surplus, as teachers' ethnic allowance is now rising to 30 percent from this year, so the state also provides greater coverage for teachers' wages. According to a government decision, the Serbian National Government can renew its public education institutions from a billion forints in four settlements, which I also hope is an important step forward for many Hungarian citizens as well as for citizens of Serbian nationality. [[13.50]] The State Secretariat of the Prime Minister's Office also finances the Serbian Cultural and Documentation Centre, which has a library and the National Foreign Language Library also has a Serbian department. The financing of these is therefore still guaranteed. Moreover, from HUF 433 million available for press, media and other similar support to national authorities, municipalities can decide for themselves which purpose, public collection, or other cultural purposes it will be used for. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, That concludes the questions. Now it's time for immediate questioning. It's 13:50. Dear Parliament, Congressman Peter James, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does power take advantage of all our patience? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the person of the responder or wait for Prime Minister's return. [[Péter Jakab: Mr President, I have been waiting three weeks for Comrade Orbán, so I will wait for that week.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister will have to answer your question at the next hour of immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman László György Lukács, the notary of the Parliament, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? I would like to inform you, Mr. President, that the Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to answer his urgent public duty. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the person of the responding party or wait for Prime Minister to be present and ask him for his answer personally.
u2019-03-11-117	I'm waiting with patience, Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's one way to answer. Not like the last one.]]
u2019-03-11-118	Thank you very much. I will inform you and the House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: . How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. I would also like to inform you, honourable Member, that the Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you accept the person of the response or ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2019-03-11-119	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2019-03-11-120	Thank you very much. I will inform you and the House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question, "How credible is the government's policy? I respectfully inform you that Minister Sándor Bodó has appointed Minister of State to answer his urgent public service. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[János Stummer nodds.]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Thus, Congressman János Stummer has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, With our bill submitted this weekend, we want a Hungarian quota for Hungarian jobs. Under the Hungarian Quota Act, every Hungarian employer with more than ten employees will be obliged to have at least nine of the ten employees with EU citizenship and to teach their foreign employees at least to the level of the basic language exam. The Hungarian quota law will protect Hungarian workers and Hungarian families from the unscrupulous nature of your strategic partners and from the 86 thousand economic immigrants you have admitted to the country. We want this law because it is enough that the Hungarian worker is considered a slave in his own country. It was enough to threaten Hungarians demanding higher wages in Dunaújváros with homelessness; that they could lead the strikers into caravans in Miskolc; that they could fire the man who wants to establish a union in Esztergom. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] It was enough that you and your fellow guest workers are now mass-implanting this country for fools with this country; that as long as the Hungarian family father has to work in Bristol, you will wink at Vladimir in the attic with the multinationals, so that the strategic partner can pump as much profit out of the country as possible. Hungarian workers, Hungarian families, will be protected by this law, and multinational companies will be forced to solve the problem, not with the cheap labour force imported from the East, but also with a fair and competitive wage paid to Hungarians by European standards. You can now show that you are on the side of Hungarian workers and not on the side of their foreign slave owners. Stand by the case, and with the Hungarian quota law, we will protect Hungarian workers from economic immigrants flowing into our common country, so that those who come to Hungary cannot take away the work of Hungarians! People who live on wages and salaries cannot wait any longer, do not delay too long with the answer: will they support the Hungarian quota law? Thank you.
u2019-03-11-122	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Sándor Bodó responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-11-123	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! Last December's amendment to the Labour Code responded to the need for modern-day production mechanisms and aimed at improving working conditions in this context. We cannot stress enough that, in the context of individual agreements, the December amendment provides both parties with a means to work together to establish a working time schedule. In 2012, the government placed the collective agreement at the heart of the Code for the purpose of strengthening workers when establishing the new labour code. Neither the Code nor the two major EU-funded projects since then have achieved as much success in the organisation of workers as this last amendment. This year, trade unions are making collective agreements across the country representing the interests of workers, using the opportunities provided by the law. Therefore, the government will not take away this opportunity. It is important to note that in relation to the employment of foreigners in Hungary, the Hungarian labour market is protected by a certain regulation, a quota, which is far from being exploited by domestic businesses. Third-country nationals can only be employed in Hungary if neither Hungarian nor EU citizens can be disclosed by the National Employment Service. Finally, I would like to point out that wages on the Hungarian labour market increased by over 70 percent between 2010 and 18 percent. Real wages increased by 8.3 percent last year. Thus, salaries in our country have been growing unbroken for six years. In this situation, I think that the current regulation is appropriate. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman János Stummer. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I had no illusions as to how easy it would be to convince the government whose leader is now, or last week, the richest man on the planet, 2057. You, Mr. Secretary of State are as far away from the problems of people living on wages and salaries as Mako is from Jerusalem. When they decide what they will do with the Hungarian quota law, they will choose between the two options that Hungary is a sovereign nation state that stands on its own feet, or the assembly plant that is definitely dependent on the West. On your side, the question about the Hungarian quota law is that your government is a force capable of protecting your citizens, or a team that will lie down for 30 silver for the financial circles involved in immigration. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-11-126	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-127	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, We are not chasing the world of illusions, as you said here, we are talking about reality, the real situation in the labour market. When the wage negotiations took place at the end of the previous year, representatives of employers, as well as employees' representatives, were present and we signed an agreement ensuring the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, which I have already described. And at that time, at the time of the agreement, there was a very important element, which has now been mentioned very little: an eight percent wage recommendation was also accepted by those sitting at the negotiating table. And from the current news, we can see that there is a rise in wages that goes beyond that in many workplaces. So there is no illusion here, this is the real achievement of the Hungarian economy. In any case, there should be recognition for those who do so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How can this be done?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask you whether you accept the person of the responding person or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2019-03-11-129	I don't think Minister knows the answer, so I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you. [[14.00]]
u2019-03-11-130	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Congressman Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Whoever survives? It's an address. I would also like to inform you, honourable Member, that the Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I ask you whether you accept the person who is responding, or whether you are personally expecting an answer from the Prime Minister.
u2019-03-11-131	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2019-03-11-132	He'll take it. In that case, Congressman Lajos Korózs will take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-11-133	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Minister, To my knowledge, Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is also responsible for health care, brought to the government a very thorough strategic material, the summation of which is that he would ask for some HUF 1500 billion for the implementation of this programme. This would include a new public health programme, a new national anti-cancer strategy, but I understand that it would have been involved or included in the proposal to correct the basic care. The members of the government are always fond of referring to the last eight years, and now I'm doing the same. As far as I know, when Fidesz did not govern, in Hungary only one hospital department was not closed because there were not enough doctors. But now one after the other. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Four hospitals have been shut down!]] I have to remind this House almost weekly: the first of the first hospitals in Hungary, which is the number one hospital in Hungary, the lip hospital, the hospital in Veszprém, the university clinic in Pécs, the hospital in Miskolc and last week the hospital in Péterfy Sándor Street had to close hospitals and suspend services just because there were not enough doctors. As a result, I ask Minister what the fate of this programme will be, as there is obviously 1500 billion forints for the government. At the time, the private pension fund savings of HUF 3000 billion were taken, I imagine, and this large programme could be financed without further ado. All opposition parties in Parliament would like to welcome the debate on these substantive issues, including this in Parliament. So will there be a source of health care? And when is the presentation that Miklós Kásler intended for the government to come forward? Thank you very much.
u2019-03-11-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister István Nagy has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-03-11-135	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the opportunity and the question, precisely so that we can talk about how responsible the government is for health care, and how high the centre of government thinking is to provide health care to all Hungarian citizens as much as possible. At the same time, we must not forget that healthcare was the biggest victim of Balliberal governments: there were continuous withdrawals, they wanted to introduce paid health care, hospitals were shut down, and thousands of workers were put on the street. The difference is illustrated by the fact that in the 2019 budget there is already HUF 505 billion more for health than the last budget submitted by the left in 2010. [[Gergely Arató: Retvári does this better!]] Every year, we have made a noticeable increase in health care, we have implemented 500 billion HUF hospital development in the countryside, and we have launched a 700 billion HUF hospital development programme in Budapest. So far, we've renovated 77 hospitals, 54 clinics, 104 emergency stations, 23 new clinics and 31 new rescue stations, and we've bought over 700 new ambulances. My dear fellow Member, If he had said that there was much to do and that we had to do it, we fully agree, because every day the Hungarian government is working on how to put two on one brick, how we can create health care that provides reliability and safe healthcare to as many people as possible. But to say that we are not doing anything in health care, I strongly reject it, because there are very serious developments and very serious proposals. This is also reflected in the health programme marked by Minister Miklós Kásler's name. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which puts a vision on the table that shows how to think about the future of health care. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-136	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Lajos Korózs. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-137	I've advanced your trust, but, Minister, you don't know the answer to that. I asked you when the Kasler presentation would come before the government and if there would be a source for the programs that the Minister had packed in a package and brought to the government. I did not ask how much EU funding Hungary has received in the last eight years, Minister. We should talk about the fact that more than 500 GP practices are unfilled in Hungary and 422 of them are permanently unfilled. It's about 650,000 people in Hungary don't have a home doctor. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Everyone has one!]] We should talk in this program about the fact that the family pediatric system is on the verge of collapse, and the Alliance says it would be better for the government to say that it will terminate this kind of service in health care. And it would have been better if you hadn't mentioned emergency care, especially in light of what happened last week. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-11-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-139	The answer to your question is: if this programme is in such a well-developed state that it can be brought before the government, it is likely that Minister will submit it to the government on his own responsibility. At the moment, this proposal is not on the government's agenda. I strongly reject the fact that there are people in Hungary without general medical care. There's no such thing. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why wouldn't it be?]] because there is adequate general medical care for each citizen. The Minister is working precisely on how to organise it in such a way that there is a safe quality of medical care available to everyone. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Thank God!]]
u2019-03-11-140	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Imre László, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "KRÍZISTERAPIAT IN HEALTH!" It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that Minister has appointed Mr Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask if you'll accept the person of the responder. [[On Dr. Imre László's signal:]] Thank you very much. The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Imre László has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, While the government is calling for an increase in birth numbers, it forgets that population loss could also be combated by reducing mortality, which, according to Minister Kásler's statement, some 30,000 patients who could have been rescued by proper medical care die each year. Instead, health care is becoming more and more fragmented: basic care can no longer function in its present form, the average age of GPs is desperate, the number of unfulfilled practices is constantly increasing, the number of appointments in specialist care is longer, and the number one cardiovascular disease has to wait for weeks, and for tests on endocrinological or diabetes treatment for months. It is no longer worth talking about hospital care: cardiologists are analgesics, gastroenterologists provide cardiological care, and thousands of limbs need to be amputated every year, which could not be saved in the absence of vascular surgeons. The care of the disabled is, of course, a serious burden for the budget, but it is necessary to remedy the shortcomings of health care that produce invalids on conveyors instead of leaving them on the side of the road. Hospitals are forced to pause beds that cannot be operated because of the lack of doctors and workers. There are not more doctors in Hungary, Mr. Secretary of State, but less. And there can be no answer to that, so that everything in health care is fine, or that care is continuous, and that as many doctors have never worked in our country as today. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] By reading and lying, however, not only patients but also health care cannot be cured. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]] [[14.10]]
u2019-03-11-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári answers the question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Unfortunately, your therapy is known by people from Hungarian health care, which meant the removal of beds, the dismissal of healers, doctors and nurses with 6,000 doctors and nurses, the introduction of 16,000 closed beds and visits, hospital daily allowances. Is this the therapy that you think will ever lead to purpose? I look forward to seeing how many doctors you think work in Hungary if KSH says 39 132. On what basis and why do you say another number? I have agreed with one thing that you have said, honourable Member, that the number of years spent in health must be increased and life expectancy increased. In 2010, the expected lifetime of Hungarian men was 70.5 years, now nearly 72.5 years. Women's life expectancy was high in 78 years, now nearly 79 years. If I take an average of these, we can see that life expectancy has increased by 1.4 years today, as it was in 2010, and this is due to a lot of things, not only the HUF 648 billion surplus that we spend on health this year compared to what was spent on health care in 2010, but not only the salary increase of, say, the doctor's salary has increased by HUF 207 thousand in two years, the salary of nurses has increased by 62 percent in recent years, and in the coming years, together with this year, it will increase by 72 percent, but also a number of other health-preservation factors, reformmenza, everyday physical education, non-smokers protection laws. As a result, the number of people under the age of 65 who have died of chronic illness in Hungary has decreased by 15 percent since 2010, which is a much greater reduction, a 1.5-fold more reduction than the average of the European Union, although there have been a lot of countries in the European Union that are in a better financial position than us, but we have managed to achieve this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to achieve the seventh highest increase in expenditure on health within the OECD. We have a lot of work to do, and we do not dispute that, but there have been tangible steps in the last 7-8 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Imre László. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-145	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, We will say this several times in the coming time, because unfortunately, they do not seem to understand. In times of war, fewer children are born, and this country is constantly at war against itself for your part and against Europe. You are on the side of the oligarchs and the slave-owner multinationals, we are on the side of Hungarian families and employees. For these reasons, for the Hungarians in Europe, we have created the 7+1-point family protection package, including the rescue of health care, and now I would ask you to pay attention, Mr. State Secretary: in Gyurcsány's time Hungary's health care level was 15 in Europe, now 33 is the result of your work! Thank you.
u2019-03-11-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-147	Thank you very much. The last sentence was such a shock that they didn't even applaud it from the opposition benches, because they didn't know if they could believe it now or not, because it sounds nice, and they might applaud it at the DK convention. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] But here in Parliament, you have no old or new allies, and I see you have no respect for them either, Congressman. [[Gergely Harvesto: Is that an answer? Márta Demeter: Answer me!]] You say you represent the people. Honourable Congressman, The third election has been held since the parliamentary election that you have fallen out of government, and for the third time, Hungarian voters have empowered Fidesz-KDNP with a clear majority to govern this country. Of course, you can say here in Parliament that you represent the majority and the interests of the people, but, you know, three times each other. [[Dr. Imre László intervenes.]] After saying to the government with such a large majority, after you're here folding picks from the national consultation sheet and tearing them up in Parliament, you're saying that you're representing the people's position, while 80 percent of the people are opposed to you on immigration. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] With your pro-immigration proposal, and yet you say that you represent the people's position, I think it's a pretty bold idea, at least as big as your numbers on the order. Thank you very much. [[Gergely Arató: Only people die in the hospital, Mr. Secretary of State... applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Members of Lóránt László Keresztes and Péter Ungár, as well as representatives of Mrs Márta Demeter, of the LMP, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question about the national affairs? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I respectfully ask you, after Prime Minister István Nagy has appointed Minister for the performance of his public task as a reply, whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2019-03-11-149	Mr President, Thank you, I do not accept, we personally expect an answer from Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-11-150	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence of Turdai, representative of the Dialogue... [[On the signal of Antal Csárdi:]] Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, I dropped him off. I just kept driving. Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. How long will the government cover the parking mafia in Budapest? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Bodó State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you if you'll accept the person you're responding to. [[Antal Csárdi nodds.]] Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr Csárdi, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr Here you go.
u2019-03-11-151	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For decades, the parking mafia has been pumping public money out of the Budapest parking system in a way that is visible to everyone. It does this despite the fact that the Hungarian municipal law has been amended in such a way that it is not possible to do so, and yet today it is the experience of everyone, and more and more of us know the system, so that the municipalities can circumvent parking revenues for private companies, the parking mafia. Unfortunately, we have to see that the Budapest parking system has become the main industry of fishing in confusion, and it is shocking to see this. At the same time, I believe that this is confirmed by the fact that, although the municipality considers that a parking ticket is an invoice, NAV says that this is a taxing activity in the same way as a gum machine. We would like to be clear on this issue, and I therefore expect your answer to the following five questions with respect. Is it true what István Tarlós said that Prime Minister said no to parking? At the government meeting, did the issue of parking abuses come up, and if so, what would you like to do? The third question is, what is the government's position on transferring parking to the capital? The fourth question is why the online system of parking hours connected to the NAV has not been initiated so far, despite the fact that today everything is vegetable, every hairdresser, every smaller or larger enterprise [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] it's connected to the NAV. I'm sorry, question number five, do you consider the parking ticket to be an invoice? I am honored to thank you for your answers. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-03-11-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Sándor Bodó responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-11-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congressman! Dear Parliament, The first step in the connection of automated equipment without handling staff to the State tax authority was indeed the imposition of the obligation to provide online data on food sales equipment. Since the introduction of this obligation, sales data for nearly 25,000 devices have been received by the State tax authority. At the end of last year, the government decided that other vending machines should be connected to the IRS, as well as food and beverage vending machines. Thus, among other things, the tax office will also see data on parking machines or automatic devices operating at car washes. The objective of the measure is to ensure that the revenues of these sectors are fully visible, in addition to protecting the revenues of fair taxpayers and the state budget. At the same time, it is absolutely necessary to draw attention to the following. The VAT Act 167. Paragraph 1 (c) exempts the taxable person from the obligation to lodge a receipt. This applies to the supply of goods and services by automated equipment without handling staff. [[14.20]] This rule is more than 15 years old, according to which when a parking machine operates without a crew, it does not have to issue a receipt for the parking service. The certificate issued by the parking machines cannot be considered a receipt because of the above rule. And just as it cannot be sanctioned for failing to give a receipt, no legal consequences can be established if the certificate issued by the parking machine is incomplete. Thank you very much for your attention. From this answer, the conclusion can be drawn on the details. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Csárdi. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, So you have acknowledged with this response that you have fully consciously maintained tax legislation that has allowed the misuse of parking machines. Because what we need to see, Mr. Secretary, is that the amount of fraud probably doesn't appear in the sandwich vending machines, but in the parking machines. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have unfortunately failed to answer the majority of these questions, not even to the point, so, if I may, I will repeat the questions. Is it true, as István Tarlós said, that Viktor Orbán and the government do not wish to solve the parking anomalies in Budapest? Was there a government meeting on how to eliminate abuse and why online connection was not introduced so far in relation to parking? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr Secretary of State, I would also like your answer to the outstanding questions.
u2019-03-11-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Sándor Bodo has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-11-157	Thank you very much. I can only repeat the answers to these questions that I said earlier. The objective of the measure is to ensure that the revenues of these sectors are fully visible, in addition to protecting the income of fair taxpayers and the state budget. If these values are important to you, please identify with this and support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. Honourable Member, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you accept the person of the response or ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2019-03-11-159	I insist on Viktor Orbán's identity.
u2019-03-11-160	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "What is going on?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask if you'll accept the person of the responder. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman Tamás Mellar has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-11-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Recently, a tragedy shook the city of Pécs, when it happened that an old woman was hit by a minivan at an intersection, and she died there. This was at the intersection of Chain Street and Koller Street in Pécs. This intersection is known as the fact that, in the weeks and months preceding the accident, the public repeatedly complained to the municipality about the fact that the lighting units and lamps installed do not give enough light and that this intersection is darkened. However, complaints to the municipality have not been heard very much. The municipality allegedly carried out an investigation, which resulted in the fact that the installed new lamp bodies, which should not be forgotten, are a very important issue for Elios Zrt. installed, giving 30 percent more light than before, while public announcements have just reported that they give at least 30 percent less light. In this connection, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether an investigation will be initiated to examine the light power of the lamps; and what measures are being taken against Elios Zrt.; and, thirdly, how long should we wait for intervention? The state of public lighting has already claimed human life. When will the government finally be willing to act? Do we have to wait for another accident? Thank you very much.
u2019-03-11-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Public lighting within settlements, along the main roads managed by settlements and managed by the national authorities, is the responsibility of the municipal authorities, and it is the municipal authorities that try to solve public lighting as best as possible both in a financial sense, so that the operation of this is low-cost and that adequate lighting standards are achieved. At the same time, it should be pointed out that at any crossing point where there is a zebra, or at zebras, special legislation requires the brightness required for the surface of zebras, which is checked by the Transport Authority both when creating zebras and when replacing light sources. So what I don't think is that wherever in Hungary a zebra can be built, it can be placed in a pedestrian crossing place without the necessary brightness, and the illuminator doesn't provide this. Local authorities have done much to build cost-effective, reliable public lighting in settlements, mainly through a KEOP tender, but in many cases through other sources in recent years and even in recent decades. They also used different forms of this, and in several steps, from former mercury vapour lamps through the sodium lamps, we got to the point of installing otherwise cost-effective LED lighting in many places today. It is also a fact that in LED lighting, the projection and direction of light of LED light sources are different from that of conventional lighting units, and this is often a cause for debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-11-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Mellár for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-165	Thank you very much. I was sorry to hear you didn't answer the questions. I appreciate the wallet's efforts to ensure that public lighting is resolved, but on the specific issue, I would have expected you to report that this investigation will be carried out and then report to the public, especially to citizens, whether it is true that there is a lower level of light than before, or not, or whether there may be a link between the accident and the darkness. I think it is a simple question, but I have not even heard an attempt by the Secretary of State to say that it is encouraging that we can trust that such an investigation will be carried out, also because you seem to think that Elios Zrt. Everything about your work is fine. If everything's okay, the investigation will do the same. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-11-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2019-03-11-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Indeed, the Ministry of Interior has a very wide portfolio, and many tasks belong to the Ministry of Interior. However, the certification of the Transport Authority and public lighting, public lighting lamps and their testing are not included in the tasks of either the Ministry of Interior or the background organisations of the Ministry of Interior. Obviously, if an announcement is received, the authority will, as I said, carry out the necessary reviews at zebras and crossings. Where the change of lamps has taken place with EU support, the verification of the EU aid control system shall include implementation, quality of implementation and monitoring of parameters undertaken at the time of implementation. So I think that every detail will be under control or could be under control in the coming period. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2019-03-11-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: It's an address. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Do you know this? That's good.]] I would like to inform you, Mr President, that Minister has appointed Mr Pál Völner as State Secretary in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask whether you accept the person of the responding person or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2019-03-11-169	Thank you, of course I accept. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches, among them: Hard!]]
u2019-03-11-170	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr László Böröcz has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-11-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, many people took advantage of the transition period in the years following the change of regime. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] And they were organized to commit crimes. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: True! So Daddy knows! Daddy told you, didn't he? Grumble in the benches of Jobbik.]] a typical group of perpetrators of illegal acts was the home mafia. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] The members of the criminal organization were victims of people who were severely vulnerable. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Fascinating contributors lured out the property of the victims' homes, making a lot of people land-traveled. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: A little smoother. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You should have read it to him at least once!]] To commit fraud...
u2019-03-11-172	Congresswoman, I will speak to you in order. Here you go. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: What do you think you're doing? Shame, shame!]]
u2019-03-11-173	In order to commit fraud, the criminal organization needed accomplice notary, accomplice officials and, of course, accomplice lawyers. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Is Mr. Simonka okay? Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] ...................................................................................................................... [[There's a lot of noise, yells from Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] the Fate-Társak Public Benefit Association, created to help victims, has acquired a problematic contract.
u2019-03-11-174	Excuse me, Congressman, just a minute. Congresswoman! Congresswoman, don't take away your opportunity to answer. Thank you. Here you go. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches, including, "Don't threaten me, Mr. President."]]
u2019-03-11-175	The Fate-Társak Public Benefit Association, created to help victims, has acquired a problematic contract... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's not his name! That's not his name! Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-03-11-176	Congresswoman, I'm warning you. You know, after the second warning... [[Defiance and interruptions from the benches of Jobbik, among them: He cannot read the truth!]]
u2019-03-11-177	...with Dr. Damm Andrea's signature and seal on it. I guess I won't surprise you if I tell you that this Damm Andrea is the same Varga-Damm Andrea who is currently sitting in the parliamentary group of the better Members. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why is your hand shaking? Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Sometimes you get married, you know! Deterioration in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] She was expelled from the Budapest Bar because of similar acts. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Time! Time!]] It is very interesting that this did not bother you in continuing your activities, as Dr. Andrea Varga continued to work as a member of the Győr-Moson-Sopron County Bar Association. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Very interesting! It's very interesting. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Jacob! Soros! Soros! Jacob! Soros! Tiborcz! Elios! 13 billion! Soros!]] According to the founder of the association, a number of evictions have been made in the company to which the better-looking congresswoman worked. [[Lajos Rig: Mr. President, you can't understand it because it's just talking!]]
u2019-03-11-178	Congressman!
u2019-03-11-179	In the light of this information, the sound of the good representatives' actions against eviction in a saving role appears to be reversed. In the light of what has been said, I would like to ask, with all due respect, the Secretary of State, what kind of relationship could there be between a better representative excluded from the bar and the condo mafia? [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Governmental competence!]] What means does the government have to fight against home mafia? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Z. Carpathian Daniel: Well done! A rare applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-03-11-180	Thank you very much. Congressman! Congressman Koloman! If a student at the university interrupts you like that, what do you say? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I would never have hired you. Lajos Korózs: With such preparation, I would not stand on the cathedra! Defiance and interrogations in the benches of opposition parties.]] Okay, let's keep it that way. Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[A lot of noise, yells in opposition benches.]] There's the future generation! I'll be curious what they say.
u2019-03-11-181	Ladies and gentlemen, According to press reports, indeed, Andrea Varga-Damm, Parliamentary Representative of Jobbik [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Which press?]] who had previously worked as a lawyer, has prepared several sales contracts which have caused significant damage to several property owners. [[Constant intervention in opposition benches.]] There are arguments made public, including the former legal seal and signature of the Member's woman. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Márta Demeter: The Ministry of Justice deals with Russian arms dealers. Tell me about that. Dr. Brenner Koloman: It's gonna cost you.]] These documents are closely linked to the illegal activities linked to the so-called housing mafia. That is why it may be a question for my fellow Members whether Andrea Varga-Damm has anything to do with the housing mafia. On the basis of the press information, in connection with the case also mentioned by the Member, the better-looking politician was reported at the Budapest Bar Association, where disciplinary action was initiated against him. [[Gergely Harvesto: It's a shame! Dr. Brenner Koloman: It's gonna cost you. It's gonna cost millions!]] According to reports, he was also investigated in 1994 and 2000 and was expelled from the Budapest Bar in 2006. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You know that very badly! Dr. Brenner Koloman: This will cost millions! Márta Demeter: What's going on in the defense wallet? Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are Communists! You're real Bolsheviks! Komchik, home! Komchik, home!]] Dear House, Members of Parliament carry out their activities in the public interest. In any event, the conduct in question is not compatible. [[There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] the Member's parliamentary representatives' mandate, and it is not compatible with the obligation that she assumed when she was elected for her constituents. It is therefore accountable to the electorate as to whether or not her membership of the chamber of lawyers has ceased and, if so, for what reason it has been terminated and how it has been accounted for in these cases. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Answer me! Let's hear the answer. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame!]]
u2019-03-11-182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Böröcz. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't worry.]] Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Obviously, when Jobbik is uncomfortable with the subject, they are incapable of anything but screaming, interrupting, and making two sensible suggestions. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Your behavior is unpleasant. Dr. Brenner Koloman: It's a shame you're talking about this in the House.]] It's outrageous, frankly, that sometimes it's about people who are retired, who, by the way, have sometimes been talking about pensioners who have been crouching their assets all their lives, buying homes, dumping them out of their properties, and, frankly, it doesn't matter who committed these crimes, who helped them, is just as guilty as he is. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: It's gonna cost you. Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-184	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is the subject of Secretary of State Pál Völner.
u2019-03-11-185	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that Andrea Varga-Damm is one of the leading figures of the Hungarian opposition party. [[Rushing in the benches of Jobbik: Ugh! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauded: That's new. The president's ringing the bell.]] who holds a responsible position in the Hungarian Parliament as a Member of the Parliament of Jobbik. As many congressmen as there are, there are so many leaders. As Congressman said, the specific picantria of the story is that the company where Jobbik's Member of Parliament worked has had a marked number of evictions. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Tens of thousands have been laid out!]] Ind Jobbik and Andrea Varga-Damm regularly raise their voices against evictions. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's right!]] It seems that in other cases, the Congresswoman discovers the splinter and cannot find the beam in her own eyes in this case. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Z. Carpathian Daniel: How many thousand people have you let evict? Márta Demeter interrupts. Gergely Harvestó: We expected better, but next time!]]
u2019-03-11-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I ask you all to calm down, the congresswoman has already asked for a word, and when the immediate questions are over, I will give her the floor. That's the rule of the house. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Thank you, Mr. President.]] Congresswoman, don't put yourself in danger of speaking if you want to talk so much. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I deserve you not to give it to me.]] Give your fellow faction the opportunity to speak freely. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to a public mission. The Member indicated that he accepted the response, so that Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát had the floor and that Minister István Nagy would reply. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-187	Mr President, Dear House, Trusting at last in a professional discourse, I am not dissuaded from dragging the government back from political science fiction to reality, because when we are told that they want to catch up with Austria by 2030, when the MNB's prognosis tells us that they want 110 thousand live births a year, I say that I too would like to support these efforts, but that there is a debate between us between the ways of their feasibility. I would also like to say that I welcome you, Mr Secretary of State, when the Government, after nine years of Sleeping Beauty dream, is Secretary of State, that also applies to you, because you are an accomplice to this, and you say that you want to involve the multinational companies operating in Hungary in public burdens. I would like to ask you what methods the Secretary of State imagines all this, especially in the light of the fact that the multi-company companies that operate here, according to market estimates, hide about 40% of their profits from taxation. While Hungary is only looking at the first half of your period between 2010 and 15 the Hungarian economy grew by 26 percent, of which Hungarian-owned only by eleven percent, and foreign companies operating here were able to increase 34 percent. The original number I mentioned came out of the average of the two. The question is therefore, Mr Secretary of State, that while you are pampering these companies in your strategic contracts, you are granting them discounts which were last granted only by the Gyurcsány-, Bajnai-kabinets, which are intended to bring into public cargo companies which, during your regency, have untaxed from this country on an annual basis, with continuous government assistance. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[14.40]]
u2019-03-11-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister István Nagy will answer. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-03-11-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Z. Carpathian continues to respond by turning to Daniel. Dániel Z. Carpathian to the Minister: Sorry about the title.]] My dear fellow Member, I am pleased that there is a consensus between us, and we agree that catching up is necessary. We agree that improving competitiveness is an important economic interest. It is very important for us to be able to do so that all the delays that we have suffered can be brought in. It is very good to see that there is a vision, a vision of how and when we can reach Austria. The fact that GDP growth has been 5.1 percent over the past year, to which agriculture has made an outstanding contribution, is an infinitely good message. When we address the question of multinationals and talk about it, let me say a few words about what I see in our own territory in large companies. So that we can move forward in R &amp; D, so that we can move forward in innovation, so that they can serve as a model, so that they can implement procedures, investments that can increase added value, and that we can bring investment forward, they are essential to that. The goal must be to create behind them the domestic micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that deliver, which serve the needs of virtually either part or raw materials or raw materials. If you look at how often you criticize the fact that the creation of support for a job and how much support it entails, you will never take into account the fact that we are creating not only one job, but we also create a lot of, tens and hundreds of other jobs, as raw materials, raw materials supply and the provision of additional activities work very, very well. With these principles, we can increase our competitiveness. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-190	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-191	Dear Minister, Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for allowing us to be part of a discussion in a professional direction. At the same time, I must say that I am only asking for what you have said, and I agree that we should not only be suppliers to these companies at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises level. You have indicated that this process is moving towards public burdens, but I do not see a trace of it. In 2015, the most careful market estimates show that Hungarian multi-enterprises have hidden profits worth 560 billion forints. Mr Secretary, the fact that these companies are necessary for the economy does not mean that they should not pay taxes. It cannot mean that we should not go towards public burdens, as this hidden profit margin represents half of the annual average EU subsidy level. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that Google and Facebook have been included in the list of bad debtors of the NAV because they hide the profits realised in Hungary and do not participate in public burdens. Just because they are needed, they cannot avoid the Hungarian rules, and I have not received a concrete answer as to how the government intends to enforce the specific rules. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-03-11-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I go along with the professional discourse, I must say that it is not possible to accept that these incomes are hidden. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: So what do we do?]] We have to do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen. I think if you look at it, every inspection, every amendment of the law, whether it's an amendment to the tax laws, it's all for the purpose of making or living with dishonest means, they can eventually catch up with it. When we talk about our suppliers, let me give you some very good news. If you look at the Hungarian research and development, the professional background, the scientific environment along which we work and where we work, then I have to say that there is such potential in Hungarian scientific life, there is such potential among Hungarian inventors and their work that we can safely base ourselves on the fact that we can continue to go with sound economic growth that can help innovation in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-194	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What does the government do to bring Hungary to the forefront of Europe in terms of digitalisation? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that the Minister has appointed Mr Ákos Kara as Secretary of State for an urgent public service response. [[Dawn Juhász says yes.]] The congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Technological progress has recently grown in incredible proportions, becoming part of our everyday lives, and we have not even dreamed of many of our daily products at the end of the last century. The development does not stop, so Hungary must be ready for the benefits of digitalisation. Digitalisation is one of the most important drivers of sustainable growth, a major competitiveness factor, as Minister Palkovic said earlier. Digitalisation increases productivity, efficiency, added value. It has a clear positive impact on the effectiveness of businesses in the economy. Based on the data of the information system for economic development operational programmes, each HUF invested in IT development will generate a three-fold increase in business results in a given enterprise within two years. Dear Secretary of State, On 1 March, at the EU informal telecommunications Council, Member States discussed the digital future of Europe. State leaders in charge of telecommunications and digitalisation in the Member States discussed the direction in which they would like to shape the EU's digital strategy after 2020. This is when the Digital Single Market Strategy, which is currently in place in 2015, expires. The participants agreed that joint European action is needed to preserve global competitiveness and that the rapid deployment of new technologies, including artificial intelligence, high-performance computing and block chain technology, is crucial. The Christian Democratic People's Party considers the 21st century important. The application of centuries-old solutions at all levels. So from time to time, we ask the government to inform us about the progress of projects related to digital development. I ask Mr Secretary of State what the government is doing to ensure that Hungary is at the forefront of Europe's digitalisation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-196	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Ákos Kara. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-11-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Congresswoman, Ladies and gentlemen, The government considers digitalisation to be one of the most decisive and important issues of Hungarian competitiveness. Digitalisation is a process that fundamentally affects the well-being of both Hungary and every Hungarian living here, not only in the future, but also today. A serious competition, we can safely say, is a serious struggle in the world to decide who can move better and faster in this digital transformation, which nations dictate and which nations will follow only in the process of digitalization. The constantly changing circumstances of infocommunication, new technologies emerging daily, also give us the opportunity to compete with those who are now in some competitive advantage compared to Hungary. A high-quality telecommunications network is essential for the spread of digital services that determine the competitiveness of businesses and the national economy, the quality of life and the well-being of people. Our country is currently ranked 15th in the world in terms of the speed of the 4G network, with nearly full national coverage. Since 2015, the super-fast internet has become available in 500,000 households. Thus, 2 million 800 thousand Hungarian households now have fixed network connections in Hungary today. [[14.50]] In January 2019, the second phase of this program started a few weeks ago, the Superfast Internet Program 2.0, in which we targeted new developments, where the minimum was no longer set at 30 megabit/second bandwidth, but at 100 megabit/second bandwidth, and in the development we preferred optical developments. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-199	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Particular attention should be paid to the necessary infrastructure when developing digitalisation. We must strive to ensure that Europe is able to deliver on its competitors as soon as possible in terms of the construction of high-speed broadband networks and 5G investments. Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for reporting on the progress so far. It is also gratifying that the Fidesz-KDNP government has recognised the importance of these factors and I trust that it will continue to consider the stable growth of Hungary and the reduction of our external vulnerability as a priority in the future through the continuous development of digital infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-200	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-201	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congresswoman, Thank you very much, first of all, for bringing this issue into Parliament, because it is extremely important that we talk about it. I could give you a lot of concrete examples and results, and I could list and tell you more of the tasks that are waiting for us to achieve it, and at the same time at the same time as our work on the preparation of 5 G, for example. Our aim is to make Hungary a regional leader in the development and testing of applications based on 5G. But it is also a serious task to catch up with global competitors in the field of artificial intelligence. This is why we have established the Artificial Intelligence Coalition, in which all important and significant market players and academics are already present in Hungary. Our aim is to be able to reach the European frontline in the field of artificial intelligence development. Ladies and gentlemen, There are many other points that help digitization, but I will be able to tell you on another next question. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 2:52 p.m., and that concludes the immediate questions. It is now possible for me to speak in order of business. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm requested the opportunity to speak on a point of order as a matter of personal concern. His time frame is two minutes. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-03-11-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for your equity in giving me this opportunity. At the end of the week, I was extremely pleased, because it was proven that in Hungarian political life I could be a strong opposition representative on the basis of Fidesz surveys, so on an entire weekend in the country's two fascist televisions, because Sándor Fábry called Echo TV a fascist television and the News TV a lot on the screen during an otherwise legal transaction in 2000, where no one was evicted. But speaking of which, I find it very regrettable that the Fidesz-KDNP has been stuck in the ranks of a small farmer, who has not yet done any meaningful work in his life, and who has been sharing the Estonian word for 10 months now, has never seen a product in his life, but he can always judge the activities of 50, 60, 70-year-old people. So this is said by the party, and it is said by the party community in whose ranks there is a criminal György Simonka, in whose ranks Gyula Budai took an oath the week before last week, against whom there were also disciplinary proceedings in the Chamber of Lawyers. Members of a community who lost 1.6 billion forints of public money are talking about it. [[Dr. Pál Völner: What's so personal about this?]] But while we're at it, let me tell you one more thing. State Secretary Pál Völner just said that we are fighting eviction. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Let's hear about your own business.]] Yes, for example, we are fighting against eviction, the victim of which in your law firm concluded a gift contract in February 2007, which is fictitious and which never came into existence, and Jobbik prevented the eviction of an unfortunate man from the property of Bajót. [[Lajos Korózs: Shame, shame!]] Can Secretary Völner make this in his office? That's where you make this? ! But I can tell you one thing: I am going to open up all the court dates, and I am looking forward to the Fidesz and KDNP representatives in the audience when they will see the reporters and editors very narrowly, when they will have to tell me how the lies have been put together.
u2019-03-11-204	Congresswoman, Congresswoman...
u2019-03-11-205	'Cause, you know, the courtroom is my place, I'm the king, and in this story, I'm gonna get a lot of tens of millions of forints from your TV. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Wow, how modest! The Louis is no longer behind you!]] Thank you very much.
u2019-03-11-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congresswoman, the problem with this speech is that you have insulted a lot of Members in person again, so... [[Dr. Pál Völner: He mentioned the date of 2007. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] once again, Mrs President, this leads to the fact that Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner has also asked for the floor as a matter of personal concern. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not wish to explain, I am just a congresswoman who mentioned a 2007 date, and I have been a pause lawyer since 2006. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Völner Law Office! Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's it! That's it! Math, math! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-11-208	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There will now be speeches after the agenda, and I would ask you to allow these to be said. Thank you very much. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró applied for a post-meeting speech. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-03-11-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We are talking more and more about family policy and our demographic situation here within the walls of this House and in the media, which is commendable, but it is very rare for people to feel that politicians are actually aware of their responsibility in dealing with this issue, and they would even understand what a problem it really is. In my opinion, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán does not feel the importance of the problem, either, because when he talks about reaching the fertility rate of 2.1 by 2030, I will soon prove to you that this is actually extremely small and equal to national death. There are many very superficial comments from opposition representatives that, for example, it is a problem that fewer children were born in the given year than in the previous year. Of course, this is a problem, but at the same time, if we look at the proportion of women of childbearing age, we can see that fewer children are expected to be born next year, as the number of mothers is decreasing dramatically. Returning to the Prime Minister's statement that we should reach the fertility rate of 2.1 by 2030, it is important to note that during the last nine years of Viktor Orbán's governance, the fertility rate has only increased by 0.2. In order to achieve the Prime Minister's objective, this should be tripled in the same amount of time. In addition, the demographic portrait of KSH also shows that, unlike expectations, fertility has not increased among the middle class, but primarily among mothers who have completed up to 8 generals and are typically having their first child when they were teenagers, so fertility has increased most among Gypsies in the last nine years. In his book The End Days of Europe, Béla Hell puts it this way: population loss is the problem of Europe as a whole, and while it is aggravated by the gypsy issue in the eastern EU countries, the rapidly growing number and integration problems of the admitted Muslim population in the richer Western states make the issue a priority problem. These problems have been felt by the broad masses for several years in everyday life, but the dominant media and the opinion-forming spiritual circles have forbidden their sincere discussion, just as they have accused those who dared to raise them at home on the Gypsy issue and have accused them of racism. In order for the ten million Hungarians to be available in 2030, it would not be necessary to increase the fertility rate to 2.1, since women of childbearing age, if you look at the 40-year-old population, will be only 35,000, instead of the current 81 thousand. So a very drastic reduction will take place in the next ten years, so by then all women of childbearing age would have had four children, so four children, in order to reach the desired number of souls. [[15.00]] I would like to highlight two areas in which there has been no substantial change on the part of the government in the last nine years, recognising, of course, family policy measures that have a numerically demonstrable impact. One is the question of the compatibility of work and family, as representative surveys show that 70 percent of young women would like to be able to work alongside having children, while only one or two children see this as feasible. So today's young Hungarians see that working and taking on a large family are mutually exclusive factors. It's a terrible shame. The fact that the labour market is punishing the large family needs to change this very quickly and radically. 25 percent of young people want to live for their families, but unfortunately, the large majority cannot do so primarily without their financial means. On the other hand, the pro-government media also likes to focus on and provide examples of celebrities who, for example, are consciously committed to being childless. I think that this is wrong, and in order for fertility to continue to grow and for the Hungarians to remain, we must make it a part of the image of a successful woman that someone raises mothers and children, and that they should also be appreciated. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-03-11-210	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr István Apáti, with the title of police officers, was attacked in Falka. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As said in the title, they attacked in packs, this time many policemen in Ercsi two weeks ago, members of a large Gypsy family. According to a video recording of a cell phone released on the Internet, a resource not only hidden but in this case hidden in vain was produced by the strict guards of the Order in Erchi, when the savage members of this gypsy family scolded, abused, spit on, and threatened to kill police officers who performed their work fairly. In the meantime, it occurred to me how members of a Russian or an American police force could have reacted in such a humiliating situation, but that's just a parentheses note. What we have seen or seen on this video is one of the veterinary horses of the last thirty years, thanks to the united balliberal array on the one hand, and the Fidesz, who has been registered for nine years with a small interruption of two thirds, because they are unable to solve this problem. It's also a vet horse because it shows police inertia and police insecurity. The police should not be driven into pointless paperwork, but into field work, less paperwork and much more substantive law enforcement. The reason why these cops didn't dare to go any harder on the members of this vicious Gypsy family was because they didn't dare take the risk of losing their jobs on the one hand or going to the investigating prosecutor's office or the court on the other hand for many years. If these harnesses, these handcuffs, were to be removed from the police force, they would be able to act more forcefully, in a manner appropriate to the police. I am sure that no one would have dared to do this to the members of the Hungarian Royal Gendarmerie in the '30s. But there is more, I tell you, fellow Members, because we cannot be caught up in the Erich case. We have more serious problems, since on 26 June 2018 and then on 31 July 2018 a recording was posted on the Internet, in which the leader of the Opre Roma-Gypsy Democratic People's Party, a certain K. István advertises the Roma province in northern Hungary, and in this respect the National Election Committee has already taken a referendum initiative, my fellow Members, which is likely to have been overlooked by all of them. In this referendum initiative, they immediately make three very serious demands, with three demands: self-determination, basic income and an independent province. Well, according to their ideas, the Roma province of North Hungary would consist of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Heves and Nógrád counties. All this was declared shortly before the 100th anniversary of the tragic and mournful Trianon peace dictatorship. They feel that there are so many now, because in their case courage tends to increase in proportion to the number of people, a little less individually showing the infallible signs of courage. This referendum initiative has, of course, been rejected by the NVB, since it concerns budget law on the one hand, and the Fundamental Law on the other, and, thirdly, I would add, it is a net freak. However, a few days ago, the President of the Hungarian Movement, László Torockai, faced a private video with István K., who sent a message to the President of the Hungarian Movement with the impertinence and impertinence of their character, and the so-called Gypsy flag was set on Kékestő, the highest point in Csonka-Hungary. This is obviously an uproar, provocation, and it can be said that, although, please, there is little or no chance that the Roma province in Northern Hungary will ever be here, it is likely that the decision-makers in the capital would be more quick if, let's say, István K. had announced this Roma province in the mountains of Buda or Belpest, he probably would have reached the sensitivity and the threshold of stimuli by now. Let us not wave at you, fellow Members, because 120-130 or perhaps 150 years ago, the majority and minority relations at that time began in this way, and suddenly these self-determination efforts appeared, and then, of course, we know, including the Hungarian politics' own mistakes, where they led. Do not wave, because it may well be the first sure step of a second Trianon and an expression of the first Commissioner. These efforts must be suppressed in the bud. Black panthers are the best I'd like to see in the book of the jungle. I'd love to see Bagira. In Hungary today, we do not want Martin Luther Kings or black panthers, which is why Mi Hazank Movement is going to press charges against those who are unknown in the near days because of organizing against constitutional order. If any part of the gypsy has such aspirations, then at most [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] at best and next time in India, demand your own province. We will not let this happen, our homeland Movement by all means, and if necessary, by all means, it will prevent and break these ambitions. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-11-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Indestructibility to destruction. Or why Mr Ander Balázs, from Jobbik's group, applied for the post-meeting address on the Southern periphery of South Transdanubia. Here you go.
u2019-03-11-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We were able to grow with sad statistics. It has been clear to date that, if we look at economic power conditions, then among the 276 regions of the European Union, if we look at the poorest 20, then there are four of the seven regions of Hungary, which are narrower, including South Transdanubia. But now there are new figures: among the 15 regions most depopulated, there are several regions in Hungary, including the 12th most depopulated place in South Transdanubia, so the counties of Somogy, Tolna and Baranya. Over the last ten years, these three counties have lost more than 6 percent of their population, and this is clearly not a coincidence, Europe's poorhouse Hungary. If we are talking about convergence, there have been such foggy horse-zunges here today that, by 2030, I would like to add that Hungary would be among the five most livable European countries, but if all goes on, we will now really only have to compete with Bulgaria, the Bulgaria that is really under the back of the frog, where the population is fleeing from. South Transdanubia, please believe that this is what it looks like, even though we have a Lake Balaton, there is a university town like Pécs, and there is also a nuclear power plant. Despite this, GDP per capita per unit of purchasing power does not reach 44-45 per cent of the EU level, but people are fleeing from it, and that is why they are fleeing. There is no day when I don't talk to a young acquaintance of mine who's caught up in a wandering stick, not out of an adventure. But why change everything if there is no targeted development intention, if the people there see that this is a deficit on the part of the government, and there is no significant investment, say, in terms of infrastructure? When it comes to news, it's more like the mood of the people there. This was the last time that the sidelines, 14 sidelines, were dismantled in Hungary, including one that affected my constituency, provided a link between Nagyatád and Somogyszob. [[15.10]] In fact, the area south of Kaposvár is the only rail link that would lead us to the northern regions, if we were not looking at the detour in Pécs. That's how the government thinks, and the people who live there feel left alone with their problems, the government forgets about them, and they want to wipe this landmark off the map. Mihály Varga's plans for measures to improve Hungary's competitiveness, including the construction of the M9 motorway, which would cover the regions of Hungary from the western, southern and eastern direction in a semi-circle, would embrace the regions of Hungary from Szombathely to Zalaegerszeg, Nagykanizsa, Kaposvár, Pécs, Szeged, Békéscsabán to Debrecen. It would be very good if all of this could be achieved, but we see that if the resources were to be disposed of at this rate, then none of this would be done, a communication government balloon would remain the same as the creation of civil society, and we could talk about it. There's a lot of talk about, say, the Loch Ness monster, but the less people saw about it, the less they saw about it. This is also the case of the M9 motorway, which has been going on for decades. But I'll say it again: God help us to make this happen. The next question, however, would be that if we counted this part as a kind of periphery of Hungary, then the periphery, the backyard of this poor house, could expect further steps. Because Nagyatád, Csurgo, Barcs, and, let's say, the parts of South-West Baranya, Szigetvár, should also have access to normal transport and the people who live there should be able to reach Pécs or Kaposvár. In order to do this, the road 68 should be renewed, the road that is in terrible, actually life-threatening condition between Kadarkút and Barcs should be renewed, and the most serious attention should be paid to improving and expanding the road 6 between Barcs and Pécs, as the conditions that are there are indeed the net life-threatening for those who travel there every day. We have the proposals for this, and in the course of the negotiations on the current budget, we will also present the amendments aimed at saving this region and not disappearing into that collapse, the vortex, which, in this way and in this form, is indeed putting it at risk. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-11-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. He also applied from the Jobbik Group to speak after the agenda: "How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Zoltán Magyar stands up his mobile phone towards Dániel Z. Kárpát.]]
u2019-03-11-215	Mr President, Dear House, As I said, I'm trying to pull the government back from the political science fiction world. For example, when it says that they are trying to catch up with Austria by 2030, I remind them that in terms of wage levels, our distance to Austria has even increased by one or two percent in recent years. But I would also like to say that when the Competitiveness Programme of the Hungarian National Bank or the Government, say 110 thousand live births per year, sets out, I support them in this, but at the same time there is a huge debate between us on the way forward. A plan for the government, however, is remarkable. He mentioned that after nine years of government and Sleeping Beauty dream, he tried to bring into the scope of public burdens the multi-company companies that operate in Hungary. The question is that while micro, small and medium-sized enterprises face amazing bureaucratic administrative burdens and problems every day, while they provide two thirds of the jobs in Hungary, why after nine years does this government think that, well, these multi-company companies should also pay taxes. The fact is that even the most conservative estimates show that hundreds of billions of dollars are being taken out of their profits, not their profits, their profits, their profits, untaxed each year; once again, these are the modest estimates. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] In 2015, profits were hidden in Hungary worth 560 billion forints, and I have to say that by 2015 40 percent of the world's profits had already been transferred to tax havens, but the EU countries have been particularly injured, let's say, compared to the US, and even within EU countries, our region, including Hungary, may lose most taxes in this way. It should also be noted that this very low estimate in 2015 represents half of the annual average Union subsidy level. So a mini Marshall plan could be launched in Hungary if Hungary had the right to keep these funds to itself. Because these multi-companies may be necessary and necessary, but not because Hungarian businesses are only in-workers and service providers of them, but they must have equal partners, and because there is a need for multi-companies, we cannot yet tolerate tax evasion and non-compliance with the rules. This government has concluded strategic agreements with some of the multi-company companies involved, but it has also failed to conclude a slow catch-up of Hungarian wages, although successful strikes prove that there would be plenty of room for this, and economic productivity data prove this. At the same time, they favour companies with all kinds of infrastructure and other advantages that are classified bypassing taxation in Hungary. The situation has come to this point that the NAV lists Google and Facebook in its blacklist of bad debtors and identifies multi-company companies whose taxforints are obviously lacking in the Hungarian budget, and although it is a European, pan-European problem, the national solution lacks the slightest attempt. Meanwhile, these multinational companies are living their tomatoes in Hungary. Not only did Fidesz-KDNP bring the bank's Canaan on the basis of the last year's profit figures, but if we look back a little bit between 2010 and 15 while the Hungarian economy grew by 26 percent according to statistics, Hungarian-owned companies were only able to produce an increase of 11 percent, while foreigners were able to produce an increase of more than 34 percent. This is how the average came out that while the Hungarian company, the Hungarian small entrepreneur, employs the majority of the workforce in Hungary, it faces amazing burdens, while foreign companies who even typically avoid public burdens can increase almost twice as much. Therefore, I would like to call on the Fidesz-KDNP to renegotiate its strategic contracts without delay, to conclude the slow catch-up of Hungarian wages in line with Jobbik's wage union concept, and to start it with the Western average. I must say that when I call on the government to do so, I must pay my respects to my fellow Member, Mr Mónika Bartos, and to the President-in-Office, because the two of them hold the fort in Parliament, they are present as pro-government representatives. I would like us to be able to work in a Parliament where there may be some respondents, even during the speeches after the agenda, there is a fruitful professional debate, because this is how we can give respect not only to the House, not only to Parliament, but also to our nation. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-11-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Honourable Congressman Zoltán Magyar! I'd like to inform you that the parliamentary IT system, believe me, has much more professional footage [[Defiance.]] He can make, like you, just have to ask for it, and it's available without further ado, and it's a shame to commit house violations. Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is this in the rules of the house?]] Dear Parliament, A tribute from the Jobbik Group was received by Mr Sámuel Murmann, of Sopron origin, before the first martyr of the reprisals following the repression of the 1848-49 War of Independence, by Mr Brenner Koloman. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-11-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On the occasion of the 15th of March, I would like to remember Samuel Murmann among the walls of this House, who saw the light of day on 3 June 1817 as a family of German citizens of Evangelical religion. He graduated from high school in the Evangelical Lyceum in Sopron, and then went on to the technical college in Vienna. In 1835 he entered the military field and served as a cavalry officer in the rank of Lieutenant and Lieutenant. In the Hanover regiment. On 16 March 1848 the National Guard was also established in Sopron, to which Samuel Murmann joined, as of 9 July he served as Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the National Guard, as of 20 September. His trained and equipped national guards, famous for their discipline and defiant courage, also participated in the liberation of Muraköz in October 1848. [[15.20]] From November 13, Arad County and Arad City, as the appointed National Major, participated in the siege of the Castle of Arad, next to General Károly Vécsey, who later was also martyred. His contemporaries recall his disdain for death in battle. After the losing battle in Timisoara on August 9, 1849, he was captured by the Imperials on August 25. Since Murmann himself was an officer of the Imperial Army before the War of Independence, Haynau wanted to make an example of his execution. On the day of his capture, he was brought before a statial court, which sentenced the heroic commander of the Sopron national guard to death by bullet. The verdict was executed that day. Commander Samuel Murmann, of Sopron origin, entered history as the first martyr of the reprisals after the 1848-49 War of Independence. His name has been guarded in Sopron since 1997, and his plaque was inaugurated in 1998 at the Líceum in Sopron. As a family of German nationalities in Sopron, I wanted to commemorate Samuel Murmann here as well. His memory will never be forgotten. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-11-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 18 March 2019. Thank you for your work. I wish everyone a dignified celebration on 15 March. The meeting's closed.
