u2019-03-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The 8th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests, and welcome to all those who are monitoring our work. There will be speeches before the agenda, and since we are waiting for the spring before it takes place, God bless the Alexanders, Josephs, and the Benedicts. We encourage them to bring the heat. To speak before the agenda from the Jobbik Group, how credible is the government's policy? Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Parliament elections will have an unprecedented stake, as on 26 May we will be at stake in allowing Viktor Orbán to lead Hungary out of the community of European countries and, with his irresponsible policy, to build a dictatorial regime based on wage slavery. In contrast, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary offers a responsible policy aimed at a secure Europe and a free Hungary, where fair wages and predictable growth are involved. Viktor Orbán, in a state of power, broke the freedom of the press for the first time, after which he was tense to the opposition parties by imposing dubious fines, also hit the universities, the Central European University, and now he is about to liquidate the Hungarian Academy of Sciences with a feather stroke. Now Fidesz is starting to get involved with its own allies at European level, and now his own friends and his own allies are turning their backs on him in the European People's Party. On 20 March, in the middle of this week, there will be a vote, a discussion and a decision at the European People's Party's meeting [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Soros!]] where it might turn out to be with or without you [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Whether or not they're imagining the future. With these self-serving conflicts... I know, I'm really glad we managed to get a few minutes of cheer on the faces. [[István Szilárd Németh: You didn't want this! That worked!]] You are involved in all your former allies, starting with György Soros, who financed your entire driving set thirty years ago in order to get you on the political path, I commend you to my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh. So George Soros was involved, as well as the Jean-Claude Juncker you were campaigning with recently, and you showed his board who to stand for. [[István Szilárd Németh: Come on, don't joke.]] Your supporter, your supporter, will also be involved in your support. [[István Szilárd Németh: It's hard to tell lies, I know.]] For years, Viktor Orbán has been struggling to rise to the European stage, and now he is wobbling face down between two chairs. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] In fact, what happens to Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz is of no interest and where you will find your place on the European stage, I wouldn't really care if as a responsible Hungarian citizen I wasn't interested in the fact that the current governing party should sit in political families, find its place in political families and be surrounded by allies where Hungarian national interests can be represented effectively. This is not for you, but for the country, for which it would finally be good to see the European Union where interests can be represented. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is EU flag burning good for this?]] Interests can be represented not from the coast, but from groups with great prestige. [[István Szilárd Németh: Like Jobbik!]] You chose the county I instead of the NB I football, congratulations. You are talking about national sovereignty now, while you voted unread ten years ago in favour of the Lisbon Treaty, thereby exposing our country to certain imperial aspirations which are now so fiercely opposed. There is now room for debate in the European Union, and you basically have two scenarios. One is that, once all their allies have been betrayed and after they can no longer receive money or recognition from the European Union, Hungary will be expelled from the European Community. If this fails, then they will have a scenario of bringing together their like-haired demagogue friends in Europe and beating the European Union from the inside out. István Hollik probably talked about it on Echo TV on the Bayer show when he said that the European Union is a risk to Hungary. Oops! [[István Hollik: Quote exactly!]] Jobbik goes to the European Parliament to represent national affairs [[István Szilárd Németh: With KGBéla in the lead!]] In particular, not only talk about migration, but also do so to protect Hungary from migration, which you have not done. We are going there to raise the issue of emigration, and we are demanding reform of cohesion policy in the area of wage catch-up, and to combat the corruption that you have put to the top, which is one of the biggest barriers to competitiveness in Hungary today, and one of the biggest barriers to wage growth in Hungary today. We are going to the European Parliament to support their autonomy efforts by representing Hungarian communities across the border, not just talking about it as you talk about it. And we will also take action against the false news broadcast, which you have raised to the state level, and you are also using public service to manipulate Hungary and its people. We will ask for European guarantees so that you do not do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-18-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, With your first sentence, Mr Group leader, we agree that the elections to the European Parliament are indeed an unprecedented bet, and this is the unprecedented bet that everyone else recognises, come on, on the left-wing side of Europe or on the right-wing side, from Western Europe, from Eastern Europe, this is the issue of immigration. This is XXI. It is the most important issue for Hungary as well. [[13.10]] There is also another campaign issue, and this is the future of Europe. Here, from the founding fathers to 2019, there are two concepts: the concept of a Europe based on a union of nations and a European concept based on the idea of a federal European united states. These are the two topics that Hungary cannot count on and has never been able to count on your support. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: What is the Lisbon Treaty about? What is the Lisbon Treaty about? Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Which of the two was the Lisbon Treaty?]] To support the Jobbik faction in these matters, which are extremely important to Hungary, and it is true that the future of Europe is determined, we Hungarians have never been able to count on your support. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: We did not vote for the Lisbon Treaty, unlike you! There's a lot of noise and interruptions in Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] You have never supported the fence from the beginning, you have never supported the Hungarian government in the fight against quota, you have never supported the will of the Hungarian people, and you have not supported, even after the decision to ratify this referendum, the constitutional amendment that was needed to protect Hungary with pressure from the European Union on the one hand. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] on the other hand, against pressure from illegal migration. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: There are 86 thousand migrants in the country.]] There is indeed a fundamental philosophical difference between us. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: We do not steal!]] We are not willing to give in to Christian culture, related policy to protect it, or immigration-related policy. In contrast to Jobbik, which says so on Monday, on Tuesday he says that in Brussels, he says so in Budapest. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: As a Christian, I challenge myself! Tibor Bana: Since when has hatred been Christian?]] Your own supporters don't know what you represent. The thing that always comes out of this is that somehow they do not represent Hungary in Brussels, but they represent Brussels in Hungary. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: For your sake...]] Things revolve on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays with their different attitudes and thoughts, that the story always comes here that the Brussels position is displayed in Hungary, not the Hungarian interests in the capital of the European Union. And now let's talk a little bit about it because it also mentioned what allies the Hungarian government has. Let's talk about your allies. Who were you celebrating/discreeting with this weekend? [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell. Dániel Z. Carpathian: It was about you!]] Whose speech were you listening to as good-looking politicians at the March 15th ceremony? [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Peter James!]] Who did you applaud at the March 15th celebration? [[Noise. Dániel Z. Carpathian: I am very weak and your face is getting bigger! The president's ringing the bell.]] The Democratic Coalition! Do you know what the European Union's Democratic Coalition programme is? The elimination of Hungary and its interpretation within the framework of the European Union. [[Uproar and clarity in opposition benches. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Mr. President, take the floor and violate the house rule. Márton Gyöngyösi: Gyurcsány and Orbán voted for the Lisbon Treaty together! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Lisbon! Lisbon! Szabó Timea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's where they said it on stage... Mr. Team Leader, I agree with you. At least the Democratic Coalition is consistent in this! [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] They have always represented this policy, which is why it is outrageous that a party that is fundamentally right-wing, inherently national, is able to celebrate/show with this party on 15 March, and they clearly intend to conduct the European Parliament's campaign in an identity of interest and value. I know this is extremely disturbing, and it must be extremely unpleasant for you, too, because it must be in the best interests of power. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In purely power's interest, the principles that you have originally testified about the future of Europe, about the place of Hungary in the European Union, you have given up and are on the side of a party who would like to eliminate Hungary as a nation state completely openly and clearly. Because there is no need for such a country as a nation state in the debates on the future of Europe. This is the policy that you are supporting. If you support this policy, then you have ceased to be a national party and your ability to represent the interests of Hungary has ceased to exist. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Brussels. This is extremely sad, extremely outrageous [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Be more upset, please.]] However, the Hungarian government will do the work in which it cannot count on the support of opposition parties, and therefore not your support, both in Hungary and in Brussels, even if conflicts are to be carried out. [[László Varju: Let's end this, Mr President.]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It always saddens me when a faction leader excels in yelling. [[György Szilágyi intervenes. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Shouting is a parliamentary genre, Mr. President! Especially against traitors!]] Congressman Szilágyi, you are a notary of Parliament. It is also your duty to do everything in your power to ensure order in Parliament. Still, you're doing a lot to make sure there's no order. So I would like to remind you to stick to the rules of the house and its requirements. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-5	Ladies and gentlemen, I am so glad that Balázs Orbán talked about what our common values are and what we represent in Europe, but I am even more pleased that he brought up who celebrated with whom on 15 March, as Viktor Orbán and Fidesz, on the one hand, with paid Polish applause and, on the other hand, with the politicians of the German far-right AfD party. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] I didn't see a People's Party politician there on March 15th! But before the elections to the European Parliament, it is time to clarify exactly what people represent, what they want to do with Europe and who protects the interests of the Hungarian people or who their European allies are. While it is becoming increasingly difficult to follow Viktor Orbán's peacock dance, the Prime Minister has already achieved his goal: more and more people are really talking about it in Europe, but it is not certain that they will talk about it in Europe as he wishes. One of the world's most prestigious newspapers, Economis, portrayed the Hungarian Prime Minister as a peeing dog, who is cut out by system hosts from a common home. [[An uproar on the pro-government side.]] Is this what a strong man in Europe looks like? A pissing dog? I didn't say that. It came down in the Economist. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Hillary Clinton as president, and that didn't work either.]] In another newspaper, Orbán, who surrounds himself with a fence, begs for alms. Well, I'm not a popular politician or a fidesz, but even for me, it's embarrassing how the Hungarian Prime Minister is portrayed in Europe! Viktor Orbán and Fidesz are waiting these days to see if their own European party, the People's Party, will fire them. We know that Manfred Weber, the top candidate for the People's Party, has even visited Budapest. [[13.20]] After the meeting in Germany, he also said that he had run out of patience with Orbán and Fidesz. Here comes the clever answer from Zsolt Bayer that Weber is a cowardly son of a bitch. Well, that's a fidesz standard, ladies and gentlemen. [[Noise, interruptions.]] But what Viktor Orbán thinks and holds out on Weber, whether the Fidesz is being kicked out of the People's Party, or whether they just stay there, and then tear the entire People's Party apart from the inside, it doesn't really matter to us. Our problem and what we care about is who will represent the interests of the Hungarian people in Europe, who will protect Hungarian interests. [[Tibor Pogácsás: The voters will decide!]] So the real question is where Viktor Orbán is going outside the People's Party, and to what allies he wants to chain Hungary now. A far-right alliance connected by two things. On the one hand, each of them can be accurately adjusted to be financed by Putin. On the other hand, these far-right politicians are not only anti-European but also anti-Hungarian. For example, the Italian Salvini, about whom Viktor Orbán said he was my hero. Putin could have said that after knowing exactly that through an oil business the Russians were financing Salvini's Italian party. But if that were not enough, Salvini openly opposes the fact that Central and Eastern European countries, including Hungary, will receive more support from the European Union in the future. A pro-Orbán, but anti-Hungarian politician. Orbán's other big supporter is the French Marine Le Pen, who is being prosecuted not only for the unauthorized use of EU funds, but has recently been found to have received EUR 11 million from one of Putin's banks. Le Pen is also openly opposed to Hungary receiving more EU funding. But we can also talk about the Dutch right-wing Wilders, who recently said that Viktor Orbán is a hero. Wilders, who has been in court many times for hate speech, also opposes the employment of Hungarians living in the Netherlands. Orbán's extremist friends would therefore send home Hungarians working abroad and give less money to Hungarian farmers, Hungarian citizens. Orbán therefore plans to join an anti-Hungarian alliance after his pole stands out of the European People's Party. An anti-Hungarian and Putin-friendly alliance. Viktor Orbán has been known to join Putin's finches for a long time, but this has been more clear than ever, when he let the Russian International Investment Bank that is known to be the front company of the Russian secret service into Hungary last week. Orbán has withdrawn this bank from Hungarian legislation and has given it unprecedented privileges, one of which is that Hungarian police officers, for example, cannot enter the territory of the bank. The Russian secret service will now be officially active in Hungary at the invitation of Viktor Orbán. In conclusion, Viktor Orbán, who is a bulldog who urinates under the eye of most of Europe, is about to enter into an alliance with the anti-Hungarian extreme right in order to play Europe weakly into Russian interests, so that our country and the entire continent can become Putin's prey. It's nothing but treason. Viktor Orbán is a traitor! [[Noise.]] We will not leave it with the Dialogue and the other opposition parties, and we will do everything together to prevent this rampage. We will protect our country, and we will also protect the European Union from Putin's influence. The Hungarians have seen Russian tanks once on the streets of Hungary. We don't want any more of this.
u2019-03-18-6	Thank you. Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, will respond to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Listening to his speech, there's one thing I've learned. At least I've been trying to figure out what it is that you're obviously not comfortable with. [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]] which has brought you into such a serious and violent state. And I was able to identify one thing about many of the issues that were said and otherwise unrelated. There is one thing that doesn't let you rest: you don't understand the story of the fact that an order is coming from Brussels to Budapest, and we're not doing it. [[Szabó Timea: Did I say that?]] And you don't understand. That's what you don't understand. You do not understand how it can be that from Brussels, on the one hand, by European bureaucrats and, on the other hand, by the European Parliament, thirdly by the European Commission, there is an explicit instruction on how the Hungarian Government should behave, how it should behave in relation to the forthcoming budgetary negotiations, on immigration policy, on how to think about the future of Europe, and here comes this instruction, and here we are at this 93,000 square kilometres of 10 million people, and we are not implementing this instruction. [[Szabó Timea: Only Moscow!]] This may be so, Congresswoman, it is very simple that we do not like instructions at all, because we think that the European Union and international politics are an alliance of equal, free nations. Hungary will not carry out anyone's instructions [[Szabó Timea: Only Moscow!]] will only represent the Hungarian interest in all international relations. [[Szabó Timea: Putin! Putin!]] Therefore, if ideas come from Brussels or the European Union institutions that serve the interests of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian government will support it, regardless of the party's politician, the politician of which party within the European Parliament makes this proposal. But if there is a proposal that does not serve Hungary's interests, the Hungarian government will never support it. We in immigration policy will never accept instructions from Brussels, and we propose to you with due respect and modesty, because each party can shape its own policy itself, but we also recommend that you do not engage in politics in the Hungarian Parliament on the basis of instructions. Let us not read here in the Hungarian Parliament, which you have received from Brussels in the line leader, that it is necessary to attack the Hungarian government at the current weekly level and put pressure on the Hungarian government that it may be a matter of disincentive, and that may result in a deviation from its position on immigration policy! [[Noise on the opposition side.]] I can respectfully report to you that we will not back down and will not deviate from our position on immigration policy. [[Szabó Timea: You can't do anything without Putin!]] We would like to thank you very much, although we are willing and able to fight this battle alone, but we would very much like to thank you in the European Parliament for your support on immigration, on quota, on the debate on the future of Europe, where it is in the interests of all of us to maintain a nation-state Europe. This should be a common national minimum. But you do not want to be part of this common national minimum because you receive such instructions from George Soros from Brussels, and it is much easier, at least it is more rewarding for you to carry out these instructions than to represent the interests of the Hungarian people. You have mentioned, Congresswoman, that you do not want to let this happen. In a democracy, one thing is needed to be politically strong enough to implement its policy: to collect votes. I suggest you try to collect votes. Unfortunately, they have to change their policies because the vast majority of Hungarian people look to Hungary's interests and do not support the policy that you are pursuing. [[Szabó Timea: And you are completely surrendering to Putin!]]
u2019-03-18-8	She's a director of the arts.
u2019-03-18-9	So we should collect votes. So far, the Dialogue has done very badly. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The Orbán government wants Hungary to be removed from the European Union, with a title from the DK Group, and Mr Zsolt Gréczy applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Hungarian tastes a new word, it is called Huxit, because the Orbán government wants to move Hungary out of the European Union. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] If you have any doubts about this, you should look at the recordings of your fans on the Museum Boulevard, as many as were next to the Polish wage applause, saying that Hungary should be removed from the European Union, they understand the words of Viktor Orbán. And that's what's gonna happen if you guys stay on the government. All you care about is the ability to steal European taxpayers' money. And the European People's Party may finally get to the point where it will decide in two days whether you will be overthrown or if a grace two will pass it on. But Viktor Orbán is now not only the urinating dog, but the rotten fruit, the rotten apple in the particular European folk-party basket that they fear will rot the whole basket of apples. [[13.30]] The European People's Party must decide whether to adapt to this or to cut out the man who has nothing to do with Christianity. He has no mercy, no love of neighbor, he steals the money, and if Christ lived today, he would knock you out of the temple like a booth. You talk about patriotism all the time, while now only Polish wage applauders applaud you, and Ukrainians who don't even speak Hungarian vote for you. According to your official statistics, 86,000 migrants have been admitted to Hungary so far; I say 86 thousand. Not one, as you lie and claim, but 86 grand. The question is, where is the limit of irresponsibleness? Hungary must participate in the project that will start, it is called the United States of Europe, whether you like it or not. This is not about losing Hungary's national interests. [[György Balla: Yes! Yes!]] This is about expanding Hungary's national interests. Hungary's national interest is not for you to steal, but for a European prosecutor's office to put you all in jail. This is the Hungarian national interest. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It was in the Rákosi system.]] The Hungarian national interest is to have a higher family allowance, higher than what you do not raise. The Hungarian national interest is to have a higher minimum pension. And this will be if Hungary participates in this project of the European United States. I don't know if you were watching the news the day before yesterday, France has announced that the multinationals must be taxed. That's exactly what Klara Dobrev was talking about a week ago. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] That means... I understand that you think this is weird, because you're doing nothing but lining up these multinationals with our money and then firing them if you want to start a union. However, the multi-tax becomes the higher pension and the higher family allowance if Hungary joins this project. Therefore, Hungary needs this. There is no need to fear them either the Anthem, the Hungarian flag or the Hungarian culture, because it will all remain. But we would like 30,000 Hungarians not to die in Hungary every year, because your minister admits that so many people die in Hungary because they do not receive hospitalization. This is the entire population of a Szekszárd city that you killed in a year. This is the treason you're doing about it. And if there is a European united states project, then there will be a regular hospital, and the doctors will not leave, because their salary will be higher. [[Bence Rétvári: Confectionery in Vienna.]] I understand that it bothers Mr. Retvári, and I understand that this is a problem for you. You will have to decide your place at the meeting of the European People's Party. It is probably between the Eurosceptics and the Nazis that you have your place, and it is no coincidence that Gábor Iványi is saying to an American newspaper that he sees Viktor Orbán as a fascist today, even though he once married his wife and baptized his first two children. You are also trying to reject the approach that you would not be Putin's servers. Today's New York Times says that you, to be exact, Viktor Orbán, are nothing more than Putin's forward wedge in beating up the European Union. And I would also like to draw your attention to a strong warning for the last few days. Pay attention to Warsaw, where opposition parties can defeat Kaczyński's party in the European Parliament elections. Pay attention to Bratislava, where your friends have been terribly voted down, and a new President of Slovakia will be a man who is European-friendly. And pay attention to Belgrade, where your friend is now surrounded by the presidential palace and protesting against his work. The air around Viktor Orbán is thinning from the north to the south, and this should be a warning to you. We will build the fourth republic, and we will not be merciful to you. [[Applause in DK's ranks. Intercoms from the pro-government benches, including, "Don't threaten me."]]
u2019-03-18-12	Honourable Congressman, I don't think the threat was necessary, so I'm warning you. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It's not a threat.]] You can't threaten one half of the horseshoe. Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer on behalf of the government.
u2019-03-18-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, as far as I know, there is only one parliamentary party who wanted to leave the European Union earlier: they are called Jobbik, and three days ago you were paraded on stage with them. So much for that. In the matter of EU membership, please count them, not us, because we believe that EU membership is a national interest. And by the way, we get the feeling that the goat is trying to teach us that we shouldn't eat cabbage. because we'd look good if we were taught by those of democracy and Europeanism who surrounded Parliament with a cordon. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why not you?]] and who interpreted the rule of law with rubber bullets. Well, we'd look good. By the way, I am pleased that you bring up the European debates, because this debate, too, brings out the differences between us. We see politics within the European Union in a completely different way; because we do not adapt our policy to the expectations set elsewhere, but to the interests of the country. [[Interview from Fidesz: That's right.]] On the other hand, practically the entire opposition, we have seen from the speeches that have been made so far, would perform in a nerd way everything that is formulated in Brussels. The idea of the European United States is just like that, honourable Member. In this zeal, each opposition party takes every opportunity to report the country again and again. Consider, Congressman, how many times you and your party have been sent around the EU institutions to embarrass the country. How many times? ! How many times has the country been reported? We couldn't count it. There's a philosophical difference behind the whole debate. You have just confirmed, Member, that you have announced the programme of the European United States. Therefore, central bureaucracy in Brussels would be strengthened at the expense of the Member States. And if such a superstate was created, controlled from Brussels, they would take away a lot of power from Hungary. If I just looked at the proposals already on the table, they would take away the right to determine energy prices. [[László Varju: The right to poster glue.]] Some of the taxes would not be decided in Hungary, not here in the Parliament. This would mean a smaller tax burden for large companies and much more for Hungarian families. That's what the experience so far shows. If what you are proposing were to be created, the funding plan for political activist groups would soon come into force. As we know, the European Parliament has already voted to increase the support of political activist groups by HUF 570 billion. [[Laszlo Varju: You did the right thing.]] This is many times what the parties elected in Hungary receive through state aid, so it would fundamentally upset political power. If this were to happen, Hungarian people would not influence decision-making, but a few activists and bureaucrats who were not elected by anyone. I would like to remind you that in 2017 in a consultation, the Hungarians massively rejected the proposals to remove national powers, above all because the override of national state rights would mean that Hungary should open its doors to migration because this is the main issue in the European elections. What does Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, your list leader, say? That there are no plans and politicians to support immigration. All of this, honourable Member, after they have also collected signatures in addition to the resettlement quota. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 86 thousand migrants!]] And against the border lock, they even protested at the scene, and you protested there. We didn't know, by the way, if Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife was at the autumn briefings, but we now see that she is, because she is consciously misleading the Hungarians. And I am also pleased, honourable Member, that you have raised the issue of European family allowance. Because if we compare this with your support for the resettlement quota and leaving family support decisions to Brussels, then this means that if the left-wing family policy and family support system were to be implemented, it would put immigrants in a better position than the Hungarian families. And by the way, your programme we've just announced is not surprising in one way or another. The party president and his top family business received hundreds of millions of orders from Brussels. Therefore, no one should be surprised at the fact that the black belt represents a bureaucracy-enhancing position at home. Unlike you, our political community would send to Brussels people who represent our country there, not bureaucracy back home. That's a huge difference. I think that every Hungarian person in May will be able to decide which way he chooses. By the way, and that concludes my speech, under these circumstances it would be much more honest, I think that if they were to run under the name of Altus-Brussels Zrt. in the May elections. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. å Children, family, housing for us all families count with their title from the MSZP Group, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-03-18-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If we look at the Hungarian families and Hungarian people today, the support of those who want to stay in the European Union is almost 80%. Moreover, if we look at the Fidesz voters separately, there has been an increase in the number of supporters of the European Union. [[13.40]] If you are constantly at war with Brussels, the European Union, I would ask you: you do not have to run for office in the elections on 26 May 2019, make it easy for the Hungarian people to stay out of this election, because all we have seen in recent years is that you have only used the European Union to steal those funds from certain families and entrepreneurs. I would tell Balázs Orbán that he did not realize that the People's Party is the majority in the European Union, so when he curses Brussels and talks about issuing orders, he should think about who is running the European Union today. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It would be very important if we look at the fact that, according to surveys, Hungarian families do judge the European Community positively, then it is important for us to talk about the Hungarian families that you should be dealing with every day; the problems that are seriously affecting Hungarian families today: the state of health care, the situation of education and the situation of the social care system. Due to the worsening demographic situation, the housing crisis in our country and the devalued family allowances, we demand immediate action from the government. But we don't wait any longer, because we've seen over the last eight years that any positive proposals for action have been submitted to the government, and they've been swept off the table. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party will present a proposal for a resolution in the course of today, which is about children, families, housing, which is not about the privileged 10 percent receiving all support systems, as we have seen from the policy of the Orbán government over the last eight years, but we want to provide support to all Hungarian families. We've put together three points of what the government should achieve. The first point is to support childbearing and to coordinate child rearing and employment. In eight points, we defined the means by which the government would be able to intervene immediately so that more children could be born. Of course, we will hear that the processes are good, but I would like to call on you, I think, Madam Secretary of State, to respond to the fact that we have produced the third worst birth data since 70 years in 2018. The birth rate in Hungary is constantly decreasing. We would like to increase the maternity allowance to HUF 300,000 immediately. No more than 11 years of motherhood support has been raised, and it would be very important to be able to give immediate support when a child is born. After the birth of the child, the extra leave for fathers will be doubled. To provide the same rights and subsidies to those living in a partnership that married families receive. Today, 42 percent of children are born in partnership, and they cannot be treated as if they do not exist. The second point is to support childcare and the care of close relatives. Here, too, I would like to highlight only three points: family allowances, family allowances, double the number of children, guaranteeing the value of benefits. Since 2008, there has been no increase in minimum pensions, family allowances, these important support schemes that you are unwilling to acknowledge. Making family tax relief fair is also a way of providing support to those who are unable to enforce it from their income. Increase resources for child health benefits and strengthen the paediatric and protective systems. Today, for the first time, a couple encounter the child's health system when they are having a baby, the pediatrician and the protective woman. I think last week's news confirms how much we should confirm that. The other problem is very serious: the housing crisis. Today, a young couple has to pay every month for 20-30 years, they can't live, they can't eat, they can't do anything to get an independent apartment. It would be very important for the government to finally start the social housing program, give rent support to young couples; and we demand the introduction of a modern housing savings system. We have also identified eight points here, and I would very much ask the Fidesz majority to finally adopt this programme and not only give Brussels subsidies to that privileged 10 percent, but to all Hungarian families. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-03-18-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ms Katalin Novák, State Secretary, will respond to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Perhaps I would respond to what you started, didn't you say that the European Union's support for families and young people in Hungary is increasing, in particular. I don't know if it makes you wonder if this is after nine years of Fidesz government. So, if, after nine years of governance, our support is stable, on the other hand, the EU's support is constantly increasing, then it is possible that voters can understand what we are talking about, that we are critical, but clearly pro-European. That is why our support can be high at the same time and the support for EU membership can be high. And the proposal that we do not run for office in the elections, I believe that it would make your job easier, and I believe that this is the only solution you see before you, that you are united, and that there is still someone against you, it would be easier if we did not run for office in the elections, but if you will allow us, we will not follow this proposal. And then let's talk about family support. I would say that we appreciate this, that you have the courage to bring this issue here at all by proposing that there is, however, a long period of governance behind you, which was nothing more than the destruction of measures to support families. It is very good that you will now come up with a proposal after you have actually demonstrated that you are able to eliminate, take away opportunities to support families, measures to support families. I'd just like to mention a few of these. You say how important security is. Yes, for example, Hungarian women, Hungarian mothers, want the opportunity to spend up to 3 years at home with their children. You have abolished the 3rd year of the child during their government, it was you who took away this sense of security, the 3rd year child from the Hungarian mothers. He says how important greater financial mobility is. Madam Congresswoman, there was a family tax discount system in Hungary already in the period before 2002, as the first Orbán government introduced this. You have abolished and the family tax relief of one and two children has been abolished, and the three children have also been reduced, so again: even the family tax relief system has been abolished. He says how important it is to create a home. I completely agree with you on that. It is important that Hungarian families live in homes. There was a home-building program, even before your time, called a soccer program, and you ended it. The home creation programme was abolished during their governance. So I'm asking you, how much can we consider you credible in this area if you've taken away the 3rd year kid? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Yet more children were born!]] if the home creation programme has been terminated, if the family tax relief scheme has been abolished, if this country has been simultaneously transferred to a foreign currency loan, even the municipalities and the State have been indebted. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What?!]] All types of debt continued to increase in Hungary during your governance, and even energy prices were raised 15 times while they were on the government. So everything related to the 2002-2010 governance was a downswing for families. And yes, you are right, there are also the results in the demographic sense, because it is no coincidence that, just after your administration, the desire to have children in Hungary has fallen to its lowest point. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Will you say the same in 20 years?]] He was never as short as he was then. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Thanks to this, since 2010, the number of women of childbearing age has decreased by 140 thousand, and we can say that last year was the year that has been able to raise the desire to have children to a peak of 20 years in Hungary. [[Zsolt Gréczy and László Varju intervene.]] I don't know if you know or if you're following the statistics, or if you're faking it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] but between 2002 and 2010 [[Constant intervention from the opposition.]] Number of marriages...
u2019-03-18-18	Congressman Varju! Congressman Varju, take a breath while you're at it so you don't get short of air. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-19	I know that reality is difficult to face, Congressman and Congresswoman. [[László Varju: We also accepted the partnership!]] I know it's very difficult to face the damage you've done to this country and its families. I suggest that you study these data and you will see that, for example, between 2002 and 2010, the number of marriages decreased by 23 per cent, and since then it has increased by 1.5 per cent. You guys, I know you can't be happy about anything, but I think these are good results. It is no coincidence that we have been pursuing a family-oriented policy since 2010 [[Ágnes Vadai: Orbán family, Habony family, Mészáros family, Tiborcz family!]] We're running a family center government. I would also like to remind you that, compared to 2010, we have doubled the budget for support for families, today we are spending twice as much on family support as we did during your governance, and we are now introducing the seven-point family protection action plan. [[13.50]] What you can do if you have not voted in favour of the lawn, if you have not voted in favour of our proposals for the home-building programme, if you have not voted in favour of extending the family tax reduction, if you have not voted in favour of the families once before, you can now do so, and we look forward to your support. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-20	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, When does the Government intend to increase the normative operation of the settlement? Mr Hohn Krisztina, from the LMP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-03-18-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Since our accession to the European Union, many projects have been made in the territory of Hungarian municipalities and municipalities, which have created public parks, playgrounds and other community spaces to improve the quality of life and to improve the tourist attractiveness of the locality, but also have become more well-kept, organized and beautiful thanks to the creation of parks and regular green surface care. But this trend seems to be stalling. We all know that in addition to many other complex aspects, these investments contribute to the people's mood and give the external viewer a positive picture of the quality of the settlement operation. What does that tell us if we go all the way across the country? Many times it is that they have been able to build these community spaces, but they can preserve, maintain, care for, in many cases they are no longer able to take care of the municipalities. Of course, settlements with higher local resources are investing in this from their own income, while smaller ones, especially those with more care, are also having serious problems with the organisation of grass cutting. The situation is even worse in the outskirts of the settlement. Nor is it a coincidence that, in the fight against ragweed, we are also the marching forces of the surrounding countries. The more demanding settlements with built green areas and municipal elements are more needy and therefore the cost of maintaining them is higher. We also have a real Hungaricum in terms of roads. We see several times that if we manage to renovate a public road, its work will end in several cases at the border of the settlement, because the state-owned road ends at the inland border and continues with a municipal-owned road, and in general there is not enough financial resources available for the settlements even to mess with. Dear Parliament, Although the tasks of the municipalities, their autonomy, and the powers of the formation of their own living space with a high responsibility have been limited recently, there are still a number of tasks that need to be performed at municipal level. It is important to note that the local operating standards have not changed in recent years, while prices, as we know, have. Today's standards no longer allow the management of all settlement maintenance tasks. Grinding, clearing of municipal roads, public lighting, all tasks which, in many cases, show a decreasing level of care or retain budgetary resources from other important tasks in the life of the settlement, just as they are now able to employ fewer public workers in the case of settlements with greater tax power, and contribute to public work, self-force takes the money to this and does not remain foreclosure. The budget is being planned, please make a realistic adjustment to the municipal state normatives of the municipal operation. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-03-18-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There have been a number of changes in the operation and financing of the municipal system in recent years. I think that there can be no debate, there can be no debate about the fact that the Hungarian municipal system is a success product of the change of regime. The Hungarian municipal system ensures that the inhabitants of the settlement can meet directly with the local authorities, they can choose directly in each settlement size, regardless of whether it is a small village or the capital which determines the future and the image of the settlement, and thus clearly provide guidance on where to develop a given settlement. Before 2010, the State had imposed its own budget deficit on the municipalities, and we came to the point that the municipalities were virtually out of operation in the vicinity of 2010. This is why it is necessary for the State to take over a large amount of loans accumulated in the case of municipalities with a large number of public tasks and to reconsider the division of tasks in addition to the fact that the transfer of loans has taken place. You said that the tasks of the municipalities determining the image of the settlement and the development of the settlement would have been reduced. I have to argue with that. It's not like that. As a matter of principle, the tasks of the municipalities have been removed from their joint tasks concerning the municipal and public administrations, so administrative tasks and, above all, notary tasks have been lost. On the other hand, in the case of public education and public education, the State has rethought the division of tasks, and the State has taken public education and the operation of hospitals under its own control and under its own financing. This has contributed to the stabilisation of operations in the municipal system. To this, it was also necessary to add that we have shifted from the normative financing system to task-based financing, and by continuously examining and monitoring task-based funding, we can achieve that every year, taking into account how much the municipalities spend on local government budgets, for example, on settlement management tasks, taking into account the figures in the next year's budget planning, we will establish the local authorities' resources for this task. Thus, settlement development tasks are not established on a normative basis, but on the basis of actual costs. This, of course, is apparent from the municipal reports, which allow us to determine the costs associated with the next year's settlement operation. In order for these to work accurately, these should be really appropriate data, and these data, which come in from the municipalities, should be up-to-date, needed to place budget planning, financial management, real estate management and the tasks of the municipalities on a common IT basis. What was previously provided by IT systems with more than a hundred servers, 100 types of service providers, is now provided by the government itself from a central source, without the municipalities having to pay for this separately, and so we see the data in a single system. This will, moreover, contribute to ensuring that the accounts are based on real data when determining the next budget for the following year, so that we can provide the actual and necessary amount of budgetary resources. I believe that the funding of the municipal system is supported by the fact that since 2016 the municipal system has been closed by plus every year, so the municipal system is positive, not denying that there are municipalities and there are groups of municipalities that need additional support. These are supported by the exceptional compensatory aid scheme, and the progress of these municipalities and settlements is supported by the fact that we can provide additional support to all settlements that today face the problems of daily operation. They will be able to implement modernisations that will make sure that the settlement will continue to hold its place in the coming years and that it will be able to provide a safe place for citizens living there, thereby strengthening the sustainability of these settlements. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Speaking before the agenda from the KDNP Group, Mr István Simicskó spoke with the title "On the Party of Families." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[14.00]]
u2019-03-18-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to begin my speech before the agenda with a brief commemoration. Sad news: Miklós Mézes, a great figure of the Hungarian Christian democracy, has left us. He was the last representative of the Barankovics party, left us after 99 years of earthly service, and now he continues his service in the heavenly faction. Your memory will be preserved with grace. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all, who have children, strive every day and think about how we can help and support their lives. Goethe gives us an excellent answer, saying that we can best give our children roots and wings. Roots to bond with their country, carry on our traditions and obviously wings to achieve great goals and succeed in the struggles of life. It is important, of course, that as many Hungarian families as possible have children, of course, it is equally important to raise our children in a proper spirit, to receive an appropriate set of values, a value filter. With the launch of the family protection action plan, the government will help young people start their lives, have children and raise their children, because the future of Hungary comes from families with children. The seven-point family protection action plan is another serious support for Hungarian families. The HUF 10 million free-of-interest, free-use loan supports young families' child participation. In the second point, it is good news that the CSOK will be accepted for a used apartment. The range of families with children who are entitled to reduce mortgage credit and the amount of the aid are also extended. Mothers who have at least four children will be granted sja-free treatment. Large family members can receive non-refundable grants and receive car purchases. Full day care will take place, and in three years the government will create another 21,000 cradle seats. And we introduce it, the government introduces your grandparents' lawn. He is pleased that the government does not treat the family support system as a closed process, but will continue to expand in the future and, of course, try to adapt to the diversity of family life situations. The most important goal, however, is not to forget that families have more children. I am particularly pleased that not only families are supported by the government, but also family supporters. Women's wages increase by about 72 per cent in four years; at four paces: 8 per cent, 14, 20 per cent and 30 per cent in women's wages. I had the honour the other day, March 12th, to inaugurate a new patronage center in NewBuda, Richrét. The patronesses were very pleased to welcome her, and I have to say that this also shows that the government and the local government are also paying attention to the value of the patronage service, the Hungaricum, which was more than 100 years old, was established in Budapest on June 13, 1915 for the Protection of Mothers and Infants of the National Stefania Association. One year later, Paul Heim also launched protective training and caregiver training. This is a truly unique world phenomenon, there is no other country where such a protective service would be to help families, to raise children in a healthy way, to preserve their health. This is exemplary. It is also good that more and more young families are moving to Newbuda and the number of children is increasing. It is very important to have more and more such districts in Hungary, not only in Budapest. We had to make a decision to increase the number of protection zones. I feel that, quoting the words of the government, Márai, who expressed his faith in the Guest Game in Bolzano, that important things between people are not determined and decided by words, but by conduct and actions, but I see that the Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, is not only in words, but also in actions, attitudes and actions, and will continue to be in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, the Member's speech before the agenda will be answered by Secretary of State Katalin Novák. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai to Katalin Novák: You don't have to tell the truth!]]
u2019-03-18-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this topic before the agenda, as support for families and the protection of families cannot be enough talked about, and thank you for the fact that besides Fidesz, KDNP is not only a partner, but also often a flag carrier, and plays an important role in preparing proposals and supporting government proposals. That's what we're counting on in the future. If we are talking about family support, childbearing, I would like to emphasise one thing: how important it is to have a long-term predictable, safe future so that it can be planned safely for the long term. That is why we have been trying to strengthen the family support system with every decision since 2010, which is why we had to start again with the construction that became necessary in the period after 2002-2010, when we inherited a broken family support system; I could not really call it a family support system, because what could be done, and what was in the interest of families, all the opportunities were removed between 2002 and 2010. So in 2010, we started building, and now we have nine years of work behind us. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] And the results of these nine years are slowly showing. [[Zsolt Gréczy: No children are born, yes!]] On the one hand, it is clear that demographic indicators are also moving in the right direction, because in 20 years there hasn't been as much childbearing as last year, the number of marriages has increased by one and a half times, infant mortality has never been as low as last year. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Or that's the case with abortions. We hope that these demographic indicators can continue to improve in the future, but it is at least as important that families raising children today live better than they did ten years ago, and that Hungarian young people can say yes to starting a family, saying yes to having children than before. Now, in the light of the seven points of the Family Protection Action Plan, we can also say that Hungarian young people have never received so much support to start a family, to raise children, to realize their ideas of having children. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Decisions about having children are lifelong decisions, which is why we need to help young people as much as possible. The congressman also mentioned the family protection plan. I would also remind you that these nine years have not been uneventful since 2010: it is linked to this period that we have brought back the third year of the child, that we have introduced and strengthened the system of family-type taxation in Hungary in several steps, that we have protected jobs, that we have reduced unemployment to 3.5 percent. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] So now the problem of unemployment is no longer threatening families, and it does not affect them, it does not push them into a difficult financial situation; that we have extended the system of children's meals not only for the school period but also for the holidays; that we are giving children a free textbook; that we are waiting for children in Elizabeth camps whose parents might not be able to afford it anyway. And we did not stop here either, we were not satisfied with the fact that, compared to 2010, we had doubled the budget for supporting families by 2018, but went on: the Prime Minister announced a seven-point family plan on 10 February, and I hope these seven points will serve again to make it easier to start a family in Hungary, to have children and to make it easier to raise children. He has never been as supportive of young people as he is now. This means that in addition to what has been done so far, a baby shower support will be launched on 1 July, which will give young people up to HUF 10 million never to be repaid if they want a big family. [[Zsolt Gréczy: House Savings!]] Anyway, we are talking about an interest-free loan, so even if you do not take on three children, it is a positive inclusion. In addition to the baby shower support, we expanded the home creation program: from 1 July you can use the loan of 10 or 15 million HUF to buy the used apartments, and from the loan you will be released 1-4 or 1-1 million HUF on arrival of children depending on the number of children. So, not only do we push Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans, but we help those who repay loans by crediting an amount from this loan when we have children. We will help large families buy cars, improve the cradle-building and development programme in the coming years, and from 1 January we will introduce the personal income tax exemption for mothers with four children in a unique way in the world. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: They won't even work!]] So in Hungary, a mother who had four children, raised four children, does not have to pay a single penny of personal income tax from 1 January. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yeah, sorry, he's doing it for himself.]] And grandparents can be more active in family life, raising grandchildren, thanks to your grandparents' children. Parliament's debate on the legislative amendments to the Family Protection Action Plan is about to begin. I trust that all Members [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He will support them. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2019-03-18-28	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I am very pleased that our left-wing fellow Members, after many months, have finally come back to Parliament. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: We used to be. You're not in there!]] And there's a lot to argue about. I am also pleased that Mrs Vadai has not changed a bit in recent years. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai: How good!]] Conversely, before the agenda [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Before my speech, allow me to take a few brief reactions, first to Mr Gyöngyösi, who mentioned in his speech that Jobbik also wants to represent the Hungarian political position against migration in the European Parliament, and wishes to... [[Intercoms from Jobbik: There was no such thing!]] That may not be exactly how you said it, Mr. Group Leader, but that's basically what it was. On the other hand, we've been through this debate, you and I, for sure. There's an objective deadline for this since we don't believe you. The autumn of 2016 when Jobbik's faction did not support the amendment of the basic law, with which, by the way, [[Intercoms from Jobbik: You brought in migrants for money! If anyone leaves the country, talk about it.]] [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Before my speech, allow me to take a few brief reactions, first to Mr Gyöngyösi, who mentioned in his speech that Jobbik also wants to represent the Hungarian political position against migration in the European Parliament, and he wishes to oppose the pro-immigration decisions... (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: No such thing!) That may not be exactly how you said it, Mr. Group Leader, but that's basically what it was. On the other hand, we've been through this debate, you and I, for sure. There's an objective deadline for this since we don't believe you. The autumn of 2016 when Jobbik's faction did not support the amendment of the basic law, with which, by the way (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: You brought in migrants for money! If you leave the country, talk about it. against the quota, the power of the Hungarian Fundamental Law could have been dealt with. (Noise. The president's ringing the bell. ) It was subject to conditions, Mr Group Leader; this debate has already been carried out, and I felt it was necessary to bring it up again. We haven't believed you since. There were more insults to those Poles, our Polish friends who visited the celebration of the Hungarian nation and paid their respects. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: How much did this cost us?]] I understand, it must be painful that more Poles came to the Hungarian national festival than all of you were at the opposition protest. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] ♪ And it's true ♪ [[Zsolt Gréczy: What did it cost us? An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: It cost a lot of money!]] It's extremely... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Professor Gréczy, hear me out. That's a very cowardly thing to say to Poles who are not here. At the same time, while we are at your place, you have mentioned among your arguments in favour of the European United States that we should not worry, we will be able to keep the Anthem and the flag. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Of course!]] Thank you very much, Mr Gréczy, we are very grateful for this programme, which is about as much to be expected from you. So allow me to say one last thing from Mr Gréczy's speech: pay attention, he said threateningly, because in Poland, the Polish opposition can defeat the Kaczyńskis. I would like to point out that you can also defeat the current governing parties in the European Parliament elections. I know it's weird, but that's what the elections are all about, so feel free to go ahead. But, speaking of which, in the shadow of the anniversary of the Revolution and the War of Independence of 1848 it may be worth examining some things from this point of view. The events on Friday this weekend have shown many things, including the real social support of the Hungarian political forces these days, and indeed, what you have lined up and the few thoughts that have been made there have completely cleaned up the picture of the elections to the European Parliament. Mayor Péter Márki-Zay of Hódmezővásárhely said at this event that an unprecedented national unity was established, a unit was created here today and now, he said, which is unprecedented. Indeed, this was the first time in the history of the country when international socialists protested together with national socialists on a national holiday [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! Noise from opposition parties.]] And it was the first time [[Noise from opposition parties.]] This was the first time that the national left-wing and extreme-right-wing unit was shown by none other than that no speaker denied Ferenc Gyurcsány's claim that they wanted European united states. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Klara Dobrev!]] In this way, the picture is perfectly clear. We already knew, but now the voters could hear it with their own ears: there are two alternatives. Our position, the position of the Hungarian governing parties, is a Europe of nations based on the cooperation of equal nations in which no one has subjugated or subdelegated. And your offer is a European united states, an empire against which we must fight to the very last drop of our blood, while maintaining the ideal of young men in March. We do not want united states in Europe! On the issues of credibility, if you have already tabled your speech at this address, let me have a few thoughts. In 2012, Jobbik wanted to leave the European Union. In 2014, Zoltán Balczó said that Jobbik will under no circumstances support the European united states. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Thank God. Will you ring the bell again, Mr. President?]] Now it looks like no one's shutting down. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Only from a clean source!]] Let me conclude by telling you that Fidesz and KDNP [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Is that the time we get?]] does not want European united states. This will be the case, and this will be one of the important issues of the European Parliament elections, and we will ask the voters for their support. They decide everything else. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond to his speech before the agenda. [[Interventions from opposition parties: Oh! Ouch!]] Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This weekend, indeed, we celebrated the 171st anniversary of the events on 15 March. We would like to thank everyone who celebrated the heroes of 1848 with dignity. The 15th of March is always a kind of duty beyond the main engine, the duty to examine how the Hungarian independence is and how it relates to these European events and processes. Like 1848, Hungarians need to be promoted in a changing Europe. The main question is what the fundamental principle of European cooperation should be. Some believe that an open society, a bureaucratic superstate, is needed. Similar proposals have also been made at today's meeting. This would override national borders and national powers. This would lead to a set of strategic areas where there is a lack of powers. It would affect the regulation of energy prices, taxation, justice and, most importantly, the area of migration. On the other hand, we continue to imagine European cooperation on a nation-state basis, because this ensures democratic accountability. National governments can be called to account, replaced, but not unelected bureaucrats and political activists. And this is not just a disagreement in principle, because we have a concrete debate with Brussels and bureaucrats in many areas, because, for example, we do not want border protection rights to be transformed; we do not want them to decide on the reception and distribution of immigrants elsewhere. [[Tibor Bana: Interesting, you didn't say that at the committee meeting!]] ; we do not want the EU budget to encourage immigration, not border protection. We do not want political activist groups that operate inaccessiblely to receive hundreds of billions, much more than national parties get. And we do not want even small powers to be taken away from us in tax matters. And we certainly don't want anything from the Democratic Coalition's proposal. You would introduce the European family allowance, which means that Brussels would be entrusted with the definition of family allowance, which, I will say again, if we also consider that they supported the resettlement quota, this would mean that instead of Hungarian families, immigrants would be identified as beneficiaries of family policy. That's the thing. That is the result, honourable Member. As far as membership of the EU is concerned, I believe that Congresswoman Bangóné has suggested this: in Hungary, the support for EU membership is indeed very high, and that is very right, because EU membership is in the national interest. We'd like to keep it that way. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is why you want to remain a member of the European Union to steal!]] This is on the condition that the Brussels institutions do not oppose the will of European citizens. Since we are now able to set a number of examples of this, i.e. that they go against the will of Europeans, let us say that there is a need for renewal in Brussels and in Europe. Our political community will take up the debates on this. We are committed Europeans, and that is why we speak up when we see examples of self-destruction. With regard to opposition movements, I do not want to point out that the dilemma of whether there are more people on the stage or in the audience has been raised in several places. I'm sure the lovers of absurd politics would like to joke about how the flags of the betterman, liberal and DK have flown side by side, so these parties have come quite a long way to get here. [[14.20]] And we also have an opinion that some people have such a severe suspicion that they also want to troll the flag. But that's not what I'm trying to say. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But I can do it!]] because it is more important than that what these parties think about national independence and the future of Europe. And the fact is that Ferenc Gyurcsány is also giving the pace, and his wife, who once again believed in the united states of Europe, would give more power to the bureaucrats in Brussels. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Thank you! We're going to applaud you at the end!]] And this is really not surprising from the point of view that this family has very serious experience in serving different unions. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] So, as the European election is approaching, we must say that the picture is being cleared. In May, the Hungarians will be able to decide which way they choose, because in the end everything will be simplified: a bureaucratic empire or a Christian Europe based on a nation-state basis, this question can be chosen. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: What Christian, what are you talking about? It's none of your business! Zsolt Gréczy: They're firing you now!]] Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai, applause: Thank you, thank you. Thank you for the commercial.]]
u2019-03-18-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would now like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speakers who are not on the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-33	Dear Parliament, Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: László Varju, DK; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Péter Harrach, KDNP; László Böröcz, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Bernadett Szél, independent; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik.
u2019-03-18-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, This is the statement of mandate for the spokesperson. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the National Election Committee has issued to Mr Serkisian Szván Simon the mandate of minority advocates that has become vacant due to the resignation of the advocate Simani Silva. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined, on the basis of the electoral documents, the regularity of Mr Serkiian Szván Simon's credentials. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the specific rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dr. Simani Silva's provocative mandate in Armenia ended on 7 June last year, and the spokesperson resigned. Of course, even in the middle of last year, on 13 June, the National Election Committee made provision for a vacant mandate and issued it to Dr. Szván Serkisian. This resolution came into force on 16 June, last year, at 4 p.m., but the spokesperson only took over his mandate on 7 March. Obviously, he submitted the necessary documents to the immunity committee, so the committee decided at today's meeting that the conditions of the mandate certificate were met. We are also proposing this unanimously to the Parliament, with that restriction, the advocate also informed us that there is still a legal relationship that is incompatible with the advocate's rights. Obviously, until it is lifted, he cannot exercise his rights as advocate. So, unanimously, we propose that the Parliament justify this mandate. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-03-18-36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether Serkiian Szván Simon's mandate is justified. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament confirmed the mandate of Mr Szván Simon by 155 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Allow me to wish Mr.Serkiian Szván Simon effective work and good luck on behalf of the Parliament and myself. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that you are taking an oath before the Speaker of Parliament. This will happen in the coming period, but it will happen today. I declare that the number of ethnic advocates is 12. I would like to inform you that Mr Svan Simon Serkisian has said that there is a conflict of interest against him, so that he cannot exercise his rights arising from his mandate as advocate until it is terminated or until the termination is initiated. Ladies and gentlemen, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machines. We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the provisions on certain house rules should be laid down in Article 10/2014. CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religions and religious communities. CXXXII of 2018 amending Act No. H/4819. T/4479 on the amendments to the law necessary for the debate of the Commission's report on the implementation of the European Union data protection reform. Before the Commission reports of the legislative proposal No 1 and the discussion of the draft amendment. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether to ask the designated Economic Committee, B/4987 B/4987, on the activities of the Public Procurement Authority during the period 1 January to 31 December 2018. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now at the push of the button. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 115 votes in favour, 45 against and without abstentions. I now ask the Honourable Parliament, with respect, if you would like to ask the designated Economic Committee. B/5236 on the operation of entities exercising ownership rights on behalf of the State in 2017, on the development of state assets, on the processes of government wealth management. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 115 votes in favour, 45 against and without abstentions. [[14.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. It is now up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that Mr Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, has received a motion to waive his immunity from KSB.1897/2018/13-I. I'm on a case against the Attorney General. The president of the Parliament gave this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/5348. Mr Gergely Farkas presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity, and the Parliament decided on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has been said, the Attorney General's motion for the suspension of Mr. Gergely Farkas' immunity for the crime against the electoral order. The act dates back to the election campaign, when Gergely Farkas, as a candidate for the 5th single electoral district in Bács-Kiskun County, offered an offer to a candidate for the LMP, Midi Melánia Mirabella, to pay 600 thousand HUF for the campaign costs if she withdraws. The congresswoman refused to do so. Voice recording and electronic mail support the suspicion. The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting today, at which Congressman Gergely Farkas was also present. Congressman Gergely Farkas has also proposed the suspension of his immunity, which is what he is asking the Parliament to do. The immunity committee, seeing as it is a public prosecutor's case, following its practice so far, unanimously proposes to the Parliament that Mr.Gergely Farkas issue his immunity in this case. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask Mr Gergely Farkas if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[On the mark of Gergely Farkas:]] He doesn't want to. Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position to suspend the immunity of the congressman from the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether Gergely Farkas is suspending his immunity. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Congressman Gergely Farkas suspended his immunity by 151 votes in favour, 6 against and without abstentions. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Mr. President! It's okay.]] Dear Parliament, Now it's 2:33 p.m., we're moving on to interpellation and immediate questioning. On a case-by-case basis, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi applied for a speech. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Given that there are interpellations, I would like to point out that it is a matter of order that, based on the news in the press of anti-government representatives during interpellation and questioning hours, government representatives ask members about opposition representatives, they ask questions about matters concerning which neither investigation nor indictment nor any such story has yet started, and in this context such a difficult dialogue is launched between the members of the government and interpellier, questioning representatives. I would like to ask the President-in-Office to consistently reject the possibility of replying on all such issues, since, according to Article 7 (2) of the Constitution, these are not matters of responsibility in which the members of the government have the opportunity to respond. I'm afraid if I were to ask the members of the government about György Simonka, Roland Mengyi or the still sitting Mr.Simon Miklós here in the latter case, a judgment has already been delivered, which has not been implemented or entered into force only because of immunity, even though it is a budget fraud of HUF 40 million, I believe that in these cases the head of government would consistently reject the interpellation or the question. I do not dare to assume that the pro-government presidents are biased, so I would like to ask the chairman to be consistent and to refuse to reply in all such cases. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-18-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, Hungarian quota, more trade unions, less self-consciousness than multinationals! It's an address. Mr Tamás Pintér has the floor, and then Mr Sándor Bodó, State Secretary, will reply.
u2019-03-18-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The government's measures over the past period prove precisely that the world of Hungarian workers is facing a drastic transformation: you want to replace emigrated Hungarians with foreign immigrant workers instead of wage increases. Evidence of this is that in large rural factories there are job advertisements where knowledge of Ukrainian or other languages is not only an advantage, but also a requirement. On the other hand, it serves your perverse goals perfectly, since such economic immigrants work for far less money than they do in the absence of their Hungarian colleagues, language and other knowledge, and will not fight for their interests. This process is completely unacceptable to Jobbik. It is not the workers forced to London that should be replaced by other members of the nation, but that they should finally be brought home. However, the past period has not only drawn attention to the economic immigration that you have maximized, but also to the catastrophic situation of the Hungarian trade union community. Miskolc, Esztergom, Rácalmás are three cities that show that multinationals are suppressing trade unionism. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Take the Hankook gum factory in my district. In the first round, workers who wanted to strike were threatened with losing their housing, and then union leaders were fired. The latest move of the factory was to call in a new security service, whose employees demonstrated with black cars with foreign registration plates, and only increased the already tense situation. And I haven't even told you that the workers who wanted to strike were forced into tight, cameraed rooms and were blackmailed by the withdrawal of their benefits. This could have happened in 2019 in Hungary, in the heart of Europe. For me, the workers who strike and strike are like the soldiers in the end, but you are like Lieutenant Hegedüs, who wanted to betray Eger's castle to the Turks for a hundred gold coins, but you are now not betraying the Turks, but the multinationals, with their accomplice silence. On the other hand, Jobbik demands a Hungarian quota in the workplace, which ensures that the Hungarian worker is always the first in his own country, and we want a new labour code, which guarantees the right to strike, eliminates the slave law and eliminates the self-indulgent of the multinationals. Therefore, I ask the Secretary of State whether you agree that the multinationals can threaten, destroy and fire those who are about to strike, and how they intend to stop that process. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that thousands of economic immigrants are taking away jobs from Hungarian manual workers. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik and Dialogue.]] [[14.40]]
u2019-03-18-42	I salute my fellow Members. Thank you, Mr Congressman, for your question. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2019-03-18-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! Economic performance is based on work, and it is quite clear that we need to regulate the interests and cooperation of those involved in the work, whether they are employers or workers. In this situation, the establishment of working conditions, remuneration, obviously the employer's expectations of efficiency are all economic issues. Of course, the purpose of the Code of Work is to make it a regulated system of relations, but obviously it is not worth regulating every particular requirement at the statutory level. Rather, we should take the trend into account, and this tendency is clearly to give more room to the agreement of the parties. This is obviously a self-regulating role that is acceptable and works for the social partners. In this situation, the task of the trade union leader is obviously quite different for a large state company, where thousands of people may be working, other than a small company, where members of family members, perhaps almost friends, are members of the community who are involved in the activity, other than a multinational company. But fortunately, the organizational technique is working. I do not agree with you at all that you call the situation of the Hungarian trade union catastrophic. Trade unions have found the right response to changing expectations in every period, and so it is happening today. You can see that interest representatives are present in almost every workplace, in most sectors, and that the labour relations system, this conciliation system, is in place. Here we can mention collective agreements, otherwise successful wage negotiations, peaceful means of resolving labour conflicts, or the strike you mentioned, in which trade unions obviously play a role. Workers have the right to strike under the Fundamental Law, and the rules on the exercise of the right are also provided for in a separate law. As you said, workers may use it. We need to be aware that the government has no direct influence on how and how social dialogue actors agree. The Labour Code does not, in fact, regulate the relations between trade unions and employers at this level, in any way through specific measures, nor is it intended to interfere with this. There is legislation that provides for redress, in which case one of the parties suffers injury. Honourable Congressman, We must not forget that Hungary, as a member of the European Union, is obliged to comply with the legal migration guidelines in force in the EU, and it is indeed the determined aim of the Hungarian government, and this has been the case since the beginning, that the labour shortage in Hungary must be filled primarily with Hungarian or European Union citizens. To this end, when allowing third-country nationals to work in Hungary, it is an unbroken principle that workers from outside the EU are entitled to work in Hungary only if this vacancy cannot be filled with Hungarian or EU citizens. It should be stressed that the employment of foreigners in Hungary is not unlimited, in terms of space, time or other conditions. As a result, it is only a temporary solution to ensure that qualified workers from third countries participate in professions in which there are not enough qualified Hungarian or European Union citizens. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-18-44	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Pintér if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2019-03-18-45	The Secretary of State's reply also pointed out that you were clearly in favour of the multinationals. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: What?!]] In fact, I referred to this when I said that the trade unions were in a disastrously difficult situation, because the government did not only support trade union members, but betrayed them and gave them access to multinational corporations with their accomplice. Not only can I not accept your answer in my own name, but I also have to reject this meaningless answer on behalf of the Hankook workers. I'd like to tell them from here that they're gonna have some stamina, everyone can count on our help, everyone can count on us, we're with the Hankooks, we're with the Dunaújváros, and they can count on us, just like they couldn't count on the government in the past. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-03-18-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. So he didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes to 37, without abstention. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, Member of the MSZP, Vice-President, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "Language Knowledge and 92 thousand Almost Graduated Hungarians." Mr István Hiller, Vice-President, Member of the Council, has the floor.
u2019-03-18-47	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! According to recent reports and news, the number of people who cannot receive their degrees in a Hungarian higher education institution has increased to 92,000 because they do not have a language exam. 91,595 are almost graduates, honourable Members who have fulfilled the requirements of a higher education institution, passed their exams, completed their absolutorium, submitted and defended their thesis, as have many of you, but have not received your diploma, are unable to take a degree because they have not passed their exams. In advance, it is good and useful to know a foreign language, to speak a foreign language. For us, for whom Hungarian is our mother tongue, the most beautiful and dearest [[György Balla: Especially the letter "j"!]] However, it is of particular importance, since we, besides Hungarians, hardly anyone else speaks Hungarian. At the same time, the current state of affairs is untenable. Since 2006, 50,000 people have not received a degree, and this has already been a serious problem, but it is still manageable. Then you smashed the so-called zero-class system, when it was possible for the students to study foreign languages and informatics for a year before normal high school studies. Then this number reached almost 100,000, which exceeds the entire population of Szolnok or Kaposvár. Their so-called graduation programs have basically failed. In the last attempt, 1333 were given the opportunity, and 90 262 were not. I therefore ask, Mr Secretary of State, if there is any idea of the government that will remedy the problem in the long term. What do you want to do to people who can't take over their degrees? Do they maintain their plan of hiring applicants in our higher education institutions only with a language examination by 2020? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-18-48	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-03-18-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that there is no debate among Hungarians with a common sense about the need for language skills, especially for those who want a degree. If you are studying in higher education, you need to know a language. If we want quality Hungarian higher education, quality language is an inseparable part of quality higher education; so that you can learn at least one language during university studies, read literature and acquire your qualifications so that after that, when you are in a workplace, even here in Hungary, as this English usually speaks a foreign language, you can not only be a subordinate at an international company active in Hungary, but also be a leader. For this, it is essential that we help Hungarian graduates to learn a language at the best possible level, but at least at the middle level, so that it can help them in the workplace. Otherwise, here in Hungary, we will give up the position of leading Hungarians with a Hungarian degree. I do not think it is the right direction that you were referring to earlier, honourable Member, to reduce the requirements. We cannot build quality higher education if we keep talking about where, what requirements need to be reduced. It is necessary to help students to achieve the higher requirement with adequate preparation and better knowledge from the university, to gain better knowledge from the university, because our competitors are constantly increasing these levels in Central Europe, Western Europe or even Southeast Asia. [[14.50]] There are countries where there is much more burden on a high school student or university student than in Hungary. So we can't give up on Hungarian students getting quality knowledge. Therefore, let me tell you in a few words what we have helped you with, as opposed to what you have done in higher education under tuition fees and PPP schemes. First of all, it is very important that there is an improvement in how many students have this problem every year, that they have their absolutorium, they have their thesis, but they cannot take over their degrees without a language exam. This number is decreasing year after year. We were able to help 35,000 young people get their language exams free of charge, namely, we were able to help 28,000 young people under the age of 35 to get their language exams free of charge. We spent 823 million forints on this to give 28,000 young people free language exams. You have done a clever rhetorical trick, honourable Member, that you have presented only the results of the.Diploma Saving 2 programme with this 1300 person, and you have forgotten about 6499 people who have received a language exam in the.Diploma Saving 1 programme. It is also important that, after all, it was 10,000 students who could enroll in some language school, precisely as a result of the. You know very well that Hungarian students spend 924 hours learning languages, and in 900 hours you can learn a medium-level language. Language schools provide this to young people on the basis of 600 hours. In public education, we provide 924 hours for everyone to learn languages. In 2017, we had a special program called "Language Learning for Prosperity" in which he was able to attend 2200 language courses outside school hours, also free of charge. I would also like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that in the last ten years, the proportion of those who speak at least one foreign language has risen from 25% to 42%. This is a great rise, honourable Member, and the importance of this is undisputed. And it is also a very good feedback that as the deadline approaches six years to prepare for the entry requirement to be the secondary language exam, which is why in the 14-19-year-olds, in the high school age group, there has been a very large increase in the number of people with a language exam, from 46,000 to 54 thousand; so not by one or two thousand, but to a much greater extent, and we hope that this will increase further. Do not underestimate Hungarian students, trust the Hungarian students that they are capable of higher performance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Vice-President Hiller, Congressman, if he will accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2019-03-18-51	Dear Secretary of State, One time, someone in a seminar paper wrote that our Saint Stephen Right was the left hand of our king. I suggest you don't fall into this trap. And what was before 2010, I can say without modesty, I still know better than you do. That is why it is worth talking about the last nine years and not the eight years before the last nine years. I respectfully draw your attention to the fact that those who take a language exam in Hungary today at a young age acquire it, in the vast majority, not in public secondary institutions, but through language schools. Anyone who has money can give their child access to knowledge, and the secondary education that you referred to is not able. So in 2020, if you don't change what I was talking about, there's gonna be a big problem. And it's not gonna be a big problem for you, because it's not gonna hurt me right now, it's gonna hurt the students. That's why I had my interpellation, and that's why I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-18-52	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 32 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Ms Ágnes Vadai, representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Hungarians also have the title "European Health." Congresswoman Agnes Vadai has the floor.
u2019-03-18-53	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Your minister recently admitted that in 2017 24,000 patients died in our country, who could have been saved by the treatment started in time. This shows where we got under the Orbán government, and where it has led to years of bleeding out of health care. The fact that this remained without any meaningful consequences has one but more tragic message is that the senseless and tragic death of 24 thousand European Hungarians that can be saved is not a mistake, but is actually part of the system; that the everyday part of the Orbán system is that 65 people die every day with a European health problem that all of them can be saved. You're moaning about emptying the country. You're moaning if everyone doesn't have four children every day because we're running out. Meanwhile, they stand by and watch Slovak and Romanian health care smoke away Hungarian doctors and nurses. Because they live on paper in a European country, and you don't really take them into a dog. They lie about raising wages, but they don't raise wages. They lie about a career model, but even packing furniture in Ikea is a greater career than working in the Hungarian health care that you have ruined. They're talking world class, while the ceiling's breaking down in the paid hospital room, rats are covering the wards, full hospital wards are shutting down because there's no doctor, no nurse. This is not what they deserve, Madam Secretary, the Hungarians in Europe, and this is not what this country deserves. And what answer do you give to that? They anger the Hungarians in Europe by simply following the Ten Commandments, and then there would be no disease. Dear House, Under the Gyurcsány government, Hungarian health was still on the same level as Italian and Spanish, and we even prevented these countries. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] At the time, we had a European government, and by now we can see that we have European health. And then you came, and now, in the same ranking, we're way ahead of Lithuania and Northern Macedonia, and I don't want to list all the other countries. This is not what Hungarians in Europe deserve! We are worth no less than any other European people, no matter how much more the stone is worth than human life in the Orbán system. We are European Hungarians, and we have the right to receive care at European level, at least as much as before 2010. That's why our constituents sent us here to represent them, our country, unlike you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-18-54	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth.
u2019-03-18-55	Mr President, Honourable Members, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you so much for the interpellation. It is important for all of us that the health of people, the ageing of people in health, and the development of this is in our common interest. I suggest that we look at standardised data on preventable causes of death and avoidable causes of death, which have shown continued improvement since 2010. That's what we work for. We work to continue this, and we do, so that what can be prevented, prevented, and what can be avoided is avoided. The country has been doing well in recent years and we would like to continue this. We would like to continue to ensure that life expectancy in nearly 60 years of health continues to increase and that life expectancy continues to increase for everyone. In this, you can obviously see the progress, the improvement that is being made. There is room for improvement in the European Union's palette. To this end, I ask all of you to cooperate in order to make a consensus-based, equal opportunity step forward. They have worked for it, since 2010 there has been a great deal of effort to give more signs of social respect for health workers than before. I consider it a very serious achievement that there was a sign of material appreciation in this context. A wage-raise programme has been launched for specialists, residents and workers, which has been seen as an important, manageable, representative and worthy of social respect throughout Europe. All of you can remember that in 2012, when this pay-raise programme started, it continued with a joint decision between healthcare workers and health professionals involving representative trade unions and chambers, and as a sign of this, a multi-stage wage increase scheduled from 2016. We'll continue with that. [[15.00]] You know, and I think it was a very important pillar of this process that the next 72 percent wage increase could have been announced to the workers in autumn 2018 so that a significant increase in wages would take place in several steps compared to the 2018 wage level. I think it is important to emphasise that it is not only measured by wages that society values; in careers, working conditions and in communities where the work of professionals and health workers is truly judged as valuable. This value can be expressed in many ways. This value can be expressed and appreciated by society, patients and relatives. Colleagues are experiencing this, and I think that the wage increases, the other measures on career model housing and other measures to improve working conditions have led us to say that today there are significantly more doctors working in Hungary than many years ago, which means that more than five thousand people are choosing healthcare in Hungary. We can be proud that 74 percent of those who studied medicine in Hungary also joined the residency system after the order, chose the medical profession after the university; unlike in the period 2009-10, when it was only 43-44 percent. They responded proactively to the call that was part of the policy represented and adopted by the Members in this Chamber, and the measures decided in the ministries were taken by the government, for which money was provided. That is why there has been more money to keep human resources in recent years, and that is why we have managed to slow down the trend that has caused our doctors and workers to migrate abroad. I very much wish that these programmes will help us all, if we are in trouble, if we are sick, and if they are a surplus for all of us. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-56	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth. I'll ask Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-03-18-57	Dear Secretary of State, You said they were working. Maybe, just not good enough. They spend 5 billion forints on water purification and cyber defense cooperation in Uganda, but they watch that there was no mammographic device in the Honvéd Hospital, and people died in the emergency department. [[István Szilárd Németh: You're lying! Yeah.]] You spent 3.1 billion in Ghana, but you're gonna watch all the medical carriers in Hatvan quit. You spent 20 billion forints on cross-border football between 2016 and 18, but you watch as mothers and fathers lie on the ground next to their children at the Heim Pál Children's Hospital. You spent 2 billion forints on a Catholic church in Mexico, which we don't even know if it's being renovated at all, but you're watching the ceiling break down on the patient at Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital. I think, Madam Secretary, you can come here with statistics, but these are facts, and these have happened recently. This is what needs to be addressed in order for European Hungarians to have access to health care in Europe, at least as it was before 2010. Because what we have now is tragedy, and it is very far from Europe; it may be closer to Putin's Russia. I don't accept your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-18-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:, When does the government admit that Paks 2 has failed? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2019-03-18-59	Thank you. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. LMP has been warning the government for years that Paks II. investment is unnecessary, expensive, dangerous and bad business. We have now come to the point that even the Prime Minister has admitted that there is going to be a serious delay. And with Attila Aszódi's discharge, the search for those responsible for politics has already begun. So we are saying that there is a bad treaty, a bad concept, the profession and the public reject the Paks expansion, yet the government is slavish in its support. Meanwhile, Hungary has not prepared for the European Commission the energy strategy on how we will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase the share of renewable energy over time. The thousands of billions wasted by the Paks expansion would be better off anywhere than killing into nuclear power. With this money, an entire national residential building energy and energy efficiency improvement housing programme could be launched and domestic forms of renewable energy production could be supported. This would be good for the Hungarian people, and it would be good for the planet, which is drowning in poisonous gases and rushing towards irreversible warming. Dear Minister, You do nothing but keep secrets and hope that no one will notice that Hungary is being indebted and delivered, rather than converting the country to safe, clean and sustainable energy. You are deceiving Hungarian voters and elected representatives when they present a climate strategy based on outdated data, and when they build another nuclear power plant based on secret studies. In this situation, there can be only one responsible decision: to stop the Paks expansion, to account for the money spent so far, and then to adopt a nuclear-free and carbon-neutral energy plan. This is not only possible, but this is the only thing serving the long-term interests of both Hungary and our planet. So I ask Minister why they still insist on nuclear energy, while everyone outside Hungary is increasing the share of renewable energy. Based on what professional opinion do you still believe that Paks enlargement will be worth our country? According to what schedule will the Paks contract be renegotiated, in particular with regard to the conditions for termination of the contract? Also, my last question to Minister is what the Minister of Finance Mihály Varga has come up with during his negotiations in Moscow with regard to the amendment of the Paks financial agreement, and why they are still silent about it at home. I look forward to Minister's reply.
u2019-03-18-60	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Süli.
u2019-03-18-61	Thank you for the floor. Dear House of Representatives, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for asking, the government cannot stop the Paks expansion, because the government has a supply responsibility, not for you. So the government is clearly responsible for its electricity supply. If you will be responsible for it, then you will decide as much as you can according to the program you have provided. By the way, we would be happy to see you hand over to us the program that your experts have compiled, and to ensure that in Hungary there is a sufficient amount of electricity to meet consumer needs, regardless of the weather. I'll thank you especially if you give it to me, because I promise you, if it's economical and it meets the requirement I've said, then I'm sure the government will use it. We have experts who have been working for the peaceful application of nuclear power since the '50s and '59. The Csillebér research reactor has been in operation. Our objectives are real, and one of the keys to multi-footed and carbon-free energy production in Hungary is the construction of a nuclear power plant. The biggest concern for you is that, precisely because of the carbon-free nature, nuclear energy cannot be attacked, because one of the most important issues for you and for us in Hungary is to produce energy environmentally. We are committed to renewables, to solar and wind energy, Paks has always proven this, Paks has just handed over one of the largest solar power plants in Hungary with 20.6 megawatts. So there's no contradiction here. Renewables are not against nuclear power plants, but complement each other. By the way, what you are suggesting is that if we were to solve the thermal insulation of the apartments, we have repeatedly said here, in Parliament, that this is not a solution, because the apartments are not heated with electricity, but with other means, and if we are to improve the thermal insulation, the heating upgrade will require even more electricity, because if we can use heat pumping or any other modern application, it also requires electricity. [[15.10]] Electromobility also requires electricity, so if the electric vehicle spreads, the electricity demand can only be met if electricity is reliably available to us day and night. The nuclear power plant provides an energy efficiency of 90 per cent, while solar power plants are unable to operate with efficiency greater than 12 to 13 per cent. So this means that eight times as much power should be installed from day to day as the cost of this can be calculated separately from the nuclear power plant, and that this electricity produced should also be stored so that consumers have as much power at their disposal as at the nuclear power plant. If you compare the costs of this, you can see that in Germany, too, the consumer will have a kilowattor light, which is HUF 35 in Hungary. In Europe, electricity is the cheapest in Hungary outside Bulgaria, and if we look at this ratio, there is still a country in Europe that produces more expensively. So what I can say is that if we want to ensure carbon-free, secure energy supply, day and night availability, cheapness for industry and the population, we cannot solve electricity supply in Hungary in the long term without nuclear power. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-18-62	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Minister's answer.
u2019-03-18-63	I do not accept, Mr. President, the answer. On the one hand, they have never been able to produce a study that supports the fact that it is even worth building the next blocks, so it has never been backed up, and they lie constantly. The other is that a private company wouldn't invest money in such a project anywhere in the world, since it's a loss. Then it is a question why the Hungarian state would otherwise damage the Hungarian taxpayers by thousands of billions. Unfortunately, I have to say that we have heard a misconception, because I have not heard the Minister reply to, for example, the hearing of Minister Mihály Varga in Moscow. They're keeping secrets on a level that's not surprising, by the way. In 2014, when the Orbán-Putin pact was signed and Hungarians were indebted to HUF 4000 billion, they tried to keep everything secret, but now I really want to know what the Hungarian Finance Minister could have done in Moscow, that otherwise we would not get an answer to what had changed in the financial agreement. So we have to cancel the Paks loan agreement, start a housing insulation program and invest money in renewable energies, leaving more money in the pockets of the Hungarian people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There will be energy security in Hungary and in the European Union only if they finally represent the real Hungarian national interest in the European Union. To this new Members, a new European Commission [[The president's ringing again.]] and we need a new European Parliament. [[Applause from the DK benches. Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties, among them: Oh! Number one!]]
u2019-03-18-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 112 votes in favour, 33 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue [[Noise from the benches of the governing parties.]] submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Chief Minister:.. Why is the government doing business with Metro 4 suspects? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2019-03-18-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Citizens, Week after week, I am obliged to talk about OLAF, the Fidesz crimes revealed by the European Anti-Fraud Office, because Benedek Jávor, the MEP of the Dialogue, provides us with new information on these matters. So far, we have looked at why Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, can get away with the Elios scandal without being punished, but there has been no substantive answer to this question regarding the role of Péter Polt. Now let's get back to metro 4 because this is the case where the OLAF report has, in an interesting way, been made public. At the time, Fidesz thought it was in his best interest to divert attention from current scandals and push on his political rivals. But since then, it has been revealed that criminals who have been stealing EU money on subway 4 have been doing business with Fidesz since 2010. In an oral question, I have already outlined the background of this, based on the research of Benedek Jávor and his colleagues, and now another recent news to quote the title of a conservative right-wing newspaper, a Hungarian engineering firm called Milestone has made an eternal alliance with Fidesz and Strabag. Strabag lobbyists who have carried tens and hundreds of millions of dollars to Fidesz and its decision-makers, economic lunar station and other stakeholders have now officially merged with the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros in this Mérföldkő Transport Developer and Service Provider Ltd., which, of course, brings the various public procurements accordingly. So this is Zoltán Aczél's Strabag-lobbyist company Belfry, which, along with Strabag, is a big and enthusiastic supporter of Lőrinc Mészáros, aka Viktor Orbán's soccer dreams, it seems that he has now won full civil rights in the NER system. They were allowed into all their embarrassing business, whether it be settlement bonds or something, ten and a hundred billion dollars for Hungarian taxpayers losses scandals. So I would therefore like to ask once again the kindly Minister of State, Secretary of State, Deputy State Secretary or Assistant Head of Department, whether they will continue to deal with these international criminals, whether they will continue to debauch Hungarian taxpayers' money and European taxpayers' money, or if they will finally terminate this sinful alliance and at least reject those who are not only thieves, but also traitors. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of MSZP, DK and Dialogue.]]
u2019-03-18-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, House rules are 123. § (3) describes the following:. If there is a difference in content between the interpellation submitted and the interpellation made, the chairman of the meeting shall call on the Interpellet to make a statement whether he consents to the derogation or asks for his exemption from the reply. Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2019-03-18-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would respectfully contribute to the interpellation and to the ability to say my answer, because I am on the side of parliamentary freedom of speech, standing on the ground of the right to speak. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] And this time it is also an answer to the question raised by Mr Gyöngyösi Group leader.
u2019-03-18-68	Then let's go...
u2019-03-18-69	I think Parliament is the nation's forum for debate... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-03-18-70	Secretary of State...
u2019-03-18-71	Parliament is the nation's forum for debate, where all matters can be raised, and politicians are here to answer questions. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties. L. Simon László: House rules must be observed! All opposition representatives must abide by the house rules.]]
u2019-03-18-72	Thank you very much. Then let's go back to zero seconds with time. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-18-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Moreover, this is because I am particularly pleased to be able to reply to Mr Tordai, because we have had a chat in this case before, and I must say that there is no new under the sun. You have introduced a very specific genre of Parliament by saying that we are in the category of science fiction, because you act as a representative of the Dialogue in this case as an avatar of the MSZP. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] You know, there's this very, very famous, popular foreign film where people control blue creatures. This is what is really happening here, and you are being led from behind by the MSZP with joystick, because what we are saying is true, and what is true in the OLAF report: the four metro scandal is the biggest corruption case of all time, a total of 167 billion forints have been cheated, and according to the report, I would like to stress this to you, it is quite clear that the responsibility lies with the Gyurcsány government, the Bajnai government and the socialists. Obviously, if they come up with this question, everyone laughs at them. Obviously, someone else has to do the nurse's bath. Obviously, someone has to explain that the sky is not blue, and the grass is not green. I understand that you're willing to do this job with a good heart, and I'm sure they'll thank you. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: For good money...]] But regardless of this, the biggest corruption scandal of all time is being prosecuted. All the government can do in this matter is cooperate with the national and EU authorities to get to the bottom of this matter. And what I think is also important: we have completed the investment that you, your allies, have not been able to do because they have not been able to do this. For the current government, there is only one principle so that politics and business are strictly separated. [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's benches: What? Hahaha!]] [[15.20]] The government has taken a number of measures to combat corruption. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] There are much stricter sentences. We have adopted a more stringent public procurement law than before. Abolished the practice before 2010 [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's for sure!]] in the current public procurement, only companies with a transparent ownership background can operate. [[Constant intervention from DK's ranks, including Zsolt Gréczy: The whole world is stupid not to see this.]] With the introduction of online cash registers, the black economy has been significantly reduced and the proportion of single tender procurement has decreased from 31 percent in 2010 to 15 percent. On the contrary, opposition parties, the MSZP and your allies are still full of corruption cases. People talk about fighting corruption, who have wheelbarrowed hundreds of billions out of the country. Subway money was transferred, hundreds of millions were parked in foreign bank accounts, students and pensioners were damaged as a result of a series of extensive frauds, while carrying out instructions from oligarchs all the time. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! Shame!]] And for the second time, you are relativizing in these speeches the sins that I have listed here. I am sorry for you for taking on such a political role as a young Member to contribute to the washing of the MSZP in the greatest corruption case of all time. He's got a soul. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask the Member, Mr notary, whether he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2019-03-18-75	I'm sorry to hear the Fidesz speechwriters are out of jokes. We've heard all this avatar fun. At the same time, a new parliamentary genre, stand-up comedy, was heard here. [[Intercom from Fidesz: Keep away from Gyurcsány!]] Really, when they talk about the clean hand and the fight against corruption here from the fidesz benches, we can only have fun. The thing is, there is one good thing, and we agree that this is indeed a scandalous, perhaps one of the greatest corruption crimes of all time, but then again, I ask why the Fidesz circles deal with this person, even his accused, this fugitive suspect. Why do the Butchers have a joint venture with a suspect in this huge scandal? Why haven't they taken Csaba Terner for years or what's that poor bastard's name? [[Defiance.]] So, the question is, why are you guys continuing your criminal business on subway 4, wanted or indicted? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Criminal suspects. Thank you. I don't accept the answer. [[Noise, interruptions.]]
u2019-03-18-76	Congressman, notary did not accept the answer. [[Noise, interjections. The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 31 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. To whom is Ferenc Gyurcsány, President of the Democratic Coalition politicalizing? It's an address. Congressman Attila Barcza has the floor.
u2019-03-18-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Following Brussels' stealthy legislation, it is clear that the clear aim of bureaucrats and political groups supporting them is to create European united states without nations. The implementation of this concept would mean that the most important powers affecting the population of the Member States would be transferred to Brussels. They would set energy prices to protect the interests of multinational companies, according to the experience so far, if we only thought about attacks on Hungary following the announcement of the reduction in rent. But such a limitation would also mean the definition of the gender and extent of taxes, which, in light of the Brussels guidelines, would take away tax relief from families and instead spend it on the integration of immigrants. It stands out from all of them that Brussels would tell us who citizens of the Member States should live with, including us Hungarians, which, as a result of the measures taken so far, is not good for the Hungarian people, because they would immediately start planting in Hungary without a cap. It is also clear from what has been done so far that the realisation of the idea of the united states in Europe would turn us all upside down. In Hungary, the Democratic Coalition led by the Gyurcsány couple is the biggest believer in this conglomeration without national identity. We should not be surprised at this, since Gyurcsány's companies receive hundreds of millions of orders from Brussels, and who knows where and for what purpose the dividends taken from it will flow. A perfect example of the unscrupulous service of the Brussels people is the activity of DK MEP Péter Niedermüller, who is a proud supporter of all concepts against the interests of Hungary. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] In view of what has been said, I ask what support Ferenc Gyurcsány, President of the Democratic Coalition, will enrich and politicalize. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai interjects: I would answer because I am DK's vice president. Mr. President, can't I answer?]]
u2019-03-18-78	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2019-03-18-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr President, in response to your question, we can agree that there are indeed countless scandals around the Democratic Coalition that include the name of Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, the leader of the Democratic Coalition. [[There are constant interruptions from DK's ranks.]] Lawyer Csaba Czeglédy, former municipal representative and twenty of his associates, acting as a legal representative of DK and previously MSZP, are also charged with fiscal fraud and other crimes, for example, which have a particularly significant financial disadvantage. It was also suspected that the fraud cost HUF 6.2 billion to MSZP and DK. [[Uproar, noise from DK's ranks.]] This loan was granted to Csaba Czeglédy by Altus Zrt. led by Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife Klára Dobrev. As you said, Congressman, we are also concerned that Altus Zrt. Its contract, which was concluded with the European Commission in 2014, commissioned the company to carry out studies as part of an international consortium on the future development of cohesion policy and the European Structural Funds. The Hungarian Government has repeatedly expressed its concerns that Altus Zrt. any conflict of interest, illicit party financing and suspicion of fraud arising in connection with its mandate shall be investigated. In our view, because of this political merger, it is doubtful to ensure the primacy of professional aspects, and let us admit that the person who gives the money to Altus, to the Klára Dobrev, to Ferenc Gyurcsány and thus to Ferenc Gyurcsány and to the Democratic Coalition... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Klara Dobrev!]] I'm sorry if I miss the name, you'll also give money to Klára Dobrev, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Democratic Coalition. This is a opposition party operating in the Hungarian Parliament. Let us not go without saying a word to the investigation carried out by the State Audit Office, which revealed that during the last campaign, Ferenc Gyurcsány's company loaned too well to the former Prime Minister's party DK. This constitutes prohibited financial aid, which was found by the SAO's investigation to be illegal and a fine was imposed in the same case, and the MNB fined Altus of 15 million. It's still worth talking about who's best interests or who's beneficiaries are. to give the Democratic Coalition a single mandate in the elections to the European Parliament. Those who support the vision of the united states of Europe; those who operate in the logic of an empire; those who are disturbed by free and independent Hungary; they are disturbed by the fact that we Hungarians are free to decide about our future, such as our energy policy, our tax policy, our immigration policy. We do not support this; we believe that the rejection of the idea of the European United States should be a cross-party logic. The Democratic Coalition clearly does not share this otherwise existing national unity. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-80	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Attila Barcza if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2019-03-18-81	Dear Secretary of State, I thank you for your meaningful reply and I find it sad that the opposition, in particular the President of DK and his MEP, are only politicalising against the interests of Hungary. [[15.30]] Hungary has been an independent, sovereign country for over a thousand years, many have tried to do something about it, but in the end the Hungarians have always overcome it. I call on the Hungarian Government to continue to do everything in order to avoid cuts of powers and efforts towards united national states in Europe, and to make efforts to develop them. I accept your reply, thank you very much. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ms Ágnes Vadai asked for the floor in order of business; I will, of course, give it to you at the end of the interpellations. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai standing up, but I'd like to tell you now, Mr. President...]] Possibly... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai:...because it's related to your decision! Intercoms.]] Presumably 4:30. [[Intercoms. György Balla intervenes. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: In the market you can speak properly, and there is no chance of chewing gum!]] Mr. Dániel Kárpát, Mr. Jobbik. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Intercoms, noise. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Mr. President, about the previous one! Z. Carpathian to Daniel:]] You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-83	Mr President, Dear House, With regard to Fidesz's family protection packages and programme points, I would like to tell you [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I would like to add that, although we agree on the basics, there is indeed a population disaster in Hungary, I would like to add that, unfortunately, under the governance of the Fidesz-KDNP, the situation has deteriorated in this regard, and although we are not against it, I would very much like to see that if both the number of live births and the fertility rate increase, there has been a decrease in both indicators within the last two years, which is projected to be catastrophic. That is why I am shocked at the effects of the seven points on some braked foaming, as it can be seen that these points, with minimal modifications, could also be meaningful, but we also see that this government offers limited opportunities either for the expansion of the CSOK or for family tax incentives. Let's talk about the CHOK. In this respect, the better proposal was to extend this scheme to used real estate, but not to necessarily and in itself, to the extent of the aid. At the moment, we see that although Hungarian families are given preferential credit opportunities, so they can be more indebted even under preferential conditions, the amount of support they receive will not increase substantially, and if we look at the family tax relief, we can be aware that, say, for families with two children, this construction seems to freeze: the increase in the original law was established until 2019 and not from here on. However, we also see that certain forms of family support, other than family allowances, have been frozen in many other forms eight or ten years ago, and since then they have remained essentially still. I am not saying that the forms of support under subjective law should only be strengthened, to the detriment of easier access to labour income, where appropriate, but I am saying that family support should rise in Hungary at least in an inflation-following manner, because the freezing that we are experiencing is clearly harmful and negative, mainly because the Fidesz-KDNP benefit mass typically reaches the more fortunate social groups and classes, the preferential loan, the payment discount, the interest and credit cost transfer can typically affect the upper middle class. And even though my fellow Fidesz colleagues are shaking their heads, I have to say: until the housing disaster is lifted in Hungary, as long as there is no rental program, as long as the baby shower and other forms of discounts can become a credit trap for not having enough set-ups, and until the Hungarian young people in Hungary are told that it is worth staying home, because family protection solutions can remain in place across governments, it is true [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the population disaster can last longer. Averting this is in our mutual interest. [[The president's ringing again.]] So the question is whether or not the government is open to all these issues. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-03-18-84	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of Prime Minister Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is responsible and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister of State Katalin Novák will respond to the interpellation submitted by Dániel Z. Kárpát on behalf of the Prime Minister.
u2019-03-18-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Honourable Congressman, You said in your comment, in your interpellation, that it would be important to be able to call on young people to send a message so that they can expect a predictable, stable family policy in the long term. I am pleased that Jobbik agrees with the objectives of the Family Protection Action Plan, and I will also be pleased that if you can support our proposals in the parliamentary vote. And as you have said, you are stunned by this action plan for the protection of the family, I am stunned by the fact that you are going to join forces with those political parties. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Come on!]] which were just anti-family. Congressman, it's about their credibility. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] This is about their credibility, if they talk about how they will govern together with those who have destroyed the family support system in Hungary, according to your vision. How do you look young Hungarians in the eye? What can you promise them if you campaign with those who have made a series of anti-family decisions? [[Tamás Pintér: A little professionalism instead! A little professionalism. Dániel Z. Karpát consults with his fellow Members behind him.]] But if the congressman is interested in my answer, he'll turn around. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Even my posture may be adjusted. Gergely Harvestó: Why don't you answer the question? Dániel Z. Carpathian: Answer the question!]] Then maybe you can hear what's going on with your specific points. You say, on the one hand, in your comment, in your interpellation, that demographic indicators have deteriorated. That's not true, Congressman. He also says that childishness has deteriorated in recent years. That's not true either, Congressman. Keep in touch and talk to me afterwards, because you're not. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] It was also included in the written version of the interpellation, and although it did not say the same thing, I also read your written interpretation that, if you are interested in the answer to your question, I would be happy to say, you asked why families with one child or even mosaic families should stay out of the family protection action plan. That is not true, too, Mr President, because families with one child and mosaic families can benefit from different options in the family protection action plan or from previous family support instruments. If your aim is to provide the young people with credible information about the opportunities they have in front of them, then look at the opportunities that a family with one child can take on the baby shower, and a family with one child can also benefit from the expansion of the cradle seats, families with one child can also use the grandparents' children from 1 January next year, and families with one child can also hire CSOK, because, as you have said, I agree, the problem of creating a home is a serious challenge, and we are trying to help you with that. While there was no possibility of home creation at all before, for example, to purchase used property, they now have the opportunity to receive support for this and, indeed, to take out interest-supported loans. We were able to help nearly 400,000 people in Hungary to create homes only through the home creation program. You're saying that these family benefits help the lucky ones. I don't agree with that either. I think that those who are looking for work in Hungary today are not lucky, but hardworking, and, yes, we have linked family support to work, and I am glad that Jobbik can support this goal, and we have joined it because today there is only 3.5 percent unemployment in the country, so those who are also having children can also take on jobs. As regards the increase in the amount of family support, in 2010, the government spent HUF 960 billion on family support, which is now more than HUF 2000 billion, so we have increased it more than double; if it includes even this rate of inflation, it is a real increase of more than 76 per cent compared to 2019. And it rose every year, so this year, for example, the extent of the family tax relief, the financing of nursery funding or even children's meals, so that I can continue to list them. If you are truly committed to supporting families, then prove this by voting in favour of the draft laws on the family protection action plan. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-86	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa if he will accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2019-03-18-87	Mr President, Dear House, I think that most of the Hungarian population is affected by the style that the State Secretarys of Fidesz perform during such debates. I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, you've received a fair professional question, you couldn't or wouldn't answer any of the professional items. [[Katalin Novak: I answered about ten points, I answered every single point! You just don't like me telling you that you're involved with the social...!]] On the other hand, he's a little far from the truth... [[Katalin Novak: I believe it's hard to stand up like this! I've answered all the questions! Intercoms. Katalin Novak: He has also discussed my answer!]] Madam Secretary, the fact is that, if not, the number of live births in Hungary has decreased, the fertility rate should be checked, Madam Secretary, from 1,54 to 1,49, if only not so. Meanwhile, the number of women of childbearing age has also decreased. You can't undo that by lying. I have to tell you: until a rent-apartment program is set up, as long as the CSOK is made available, if any, over a hundred million worth of real estate, so not only in typical Hungarian living situations [[Katalin Novak: Do you think the apartment over 35 is?!]] and as long as, I add, Madam Secretary, as long as CSOK is made available to emigrated legal entities, [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true! Katalin Novak: Look! Keep me posted.]] Until then, your intentions are at least questionable. [[15.40]] What I would like is a pan-European agreement on certain issues. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and a family support system through government cycles, but with such styles of debate, this cannot be achieved. [[The president's ringing again.]] So I'm asking you to reconsider your position...
u2019-03-18-88	Thank you very much.
u2019-03-18-89	...because they are not hurting me, they are hurting the Hungarian population. [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
u2019-03-18-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 29 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, András Aradszki, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman András Aradski has the floor.
u2019-03-18-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Recent reports in the press show that the work of dedicated healthcare institutions has resulted in a significant reduction in the waiting lists for planned interventions. The Fidesz-KDNP government has tried to provide all the support for this. In this context, it decided in 2012 that the list of patients waiting for planned surgery should be made public, which will be coordinated by the National Health Insurance Fund. In the period since then, until the end of last year, the government spent HUF 26 billion on the reduction of waiting lists, for which additional funds are available. If we are talking about waiting lists, we should also look at the overall picture, the health processes of recent years. We cannot ignore the fact that 5 thousand more doctors worked in Hungary in 2017 compared to 2010 data, and in recent years the request for certificates for foreign employment has slowed down. KSH data show that expenditure on healthcare has increased by HUF 400 billion during this period. In addition, in recent years, the government has spent HUF 500 billion on the development of rural health care, and in the framework of the.. Healthy Budapest, there is an additional HUF 700 billion of state resources available to improve health care in the Central Hungary region, including the district of Érd. On behalf of the Christian Democrats, I can say that we are very happy to see these positive processes. This includes a noticeable decline in waiting lists, which is a reason for a positive comparison already in the EU's outlook, which put Hungarian health in the middle of Europe. The fact that Hungary has made its waiting lists public is also a significant step in itself, since only 15 of the OECD countries do so. Dear Secretary of State, Some press organisations have completely mistakenly reported an increase in waiting lists. Due to the misunderstanding and the avoidance of conscious misinformation, I respectfully ask you how the waiting lists of health interventions have changed over the past period, and what further measures are planned to reduce waiting lists. I look forward to the honour of Mrs Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth.
u2019-03-18-93	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. Managing waiting lists or even expectations in health care is always a good indicator. One is an indicator of two things: what we care about, and the other is that if we want to achieve something in a targeted way, to make it better, we have what skills we have and what commitment we have. The fact that we want to see the error, we want to see the deficiency is a very important first element of this, thank you for mentioning that in 2012 we established a nationally unified, public waiting list. It was meant to be clear. We saw clearly that there were more than 71,000 people on the waiting list at the time. At the time, the government had a commitment to ensure that money, steed, and weaponry were not spared, with financial expense, organization and help from hospital staff to ensure that the number of patients on the waiting list could be reduced and the number of waiting list surgeries increased. This happened. The money that the government has invested on this, the 26 billion forints you mentioned, and the 5 billion that we are planning for this year have actually produced results that resulted in 28 245 people waiting on the waiting list by 2018, not the almost three times the number we saw in 2012. It is very important that not only fewer people are waiting for each surgery, but we have been able to show very good progress, and this large reduction in the number of patients on the waiting list has been associated with the increase in the number of surgeries performed. Not all of the countries want to see how many surgeries are expected, and in this, Hungary is included in the waiting list of 15 countries, where the data are public, I consider it a very important standard, and it is very important something that is excellently suitable for comparison. We are proud that today in Hungary, cataract surgery is the second shortest waiting time after the Netherlands, it is 45 days in the Netherlands 44 days in Norway and 114 days in Norway. We are better at many things, including hip replacements, where people in Hungary wait about three months, 88 days on the waiting list, which is 444 days in Poland. To give another example, in a knee replacement in Norway 158 days on waiting lists, in 2018 it was 126 days in Hungary. In the measures that serve how and how people are added to the waiting list and how much time they spend on what is on the planned waiting list, an important circumstance is that from 1 April, these patients will be required to be included so that they can be on the waiting list at the next available date and not together with the doctor for months, which is important because this makes it clear that the difference between the time to be on the planned list and the time to be on the actual list will be reduced. Today in Hungary, the actual time on the list is only about a third of what they thought would happen. Wait-listed diseases include a relatively narrower group of interventions. What we can do about the so-called waiting time is essential, what we can do to ensure that investigations are more effective, organised and that outpatient outpatients can be closer to making appointments. In this, the government has taken serious steps to increase the ordering time, to increase the number of hours. What has increased is about 9,800 hours of outpatient outpatient outpatient time per week, and so it was a significant step forward that if a tumour suspect is tested, the imaging should be performed within 14 days. We consider it important to change the pace of intervention. The PET-CT central waiting list system has delivered its results. I think that this money, this attention, served the interests of Hungarian patients. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-94	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth. I ask Mr András Aradszki whether he will accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2019-03-18-95	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your exhaustive and very detailed reply. Indeed, it was very important to establish the number of people on the waiting list and the state in which we start and how we manage to reduce this 77 000. It is very important that we not only have to talk about success in health care with the focus on waiting lists, but that, overall, by 2010-2019, we have spent HUF 648 billion more in health care, and if we add that by 2022 there will be 72 percent wage development for nurses, and over the past two years, the remuneration of doctors has increased by HUF 207 thousand, these directions are good, and the fight against waiting lists will certainly be successful by improving imaginary efficiency indicators. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. From your own pocket for health? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor. [[15.50]]
u2019-03-18-97	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is known that around 30% of healthcare expenditure in Hungary is financed by private funds. This one has two major subsystems. One is where employers, employees pay to private banks and private insurers, and through this they enforce certain payments, and the other is the system of gratuity. Allow me, Madam Secretary, to put an unscrupulous sentence here. Today in Hungary, I consider two types of doctors interested in gratuity money. One is the one asking for hundreds of thousands of forints in advance, and the other is running away from clients who are about to put envelopes in their pockets. This activity operates on the border between the black zone and the grey zone. I know that the government first had action to reduce such activities, and then they wanted to make it legal by means of a legislative amendment. It is clear that if someone touches the instrument of gratuity money, they either want a better care or they want to obtain some benefits, but if we look at it accurately, this is a category of crime in Hungary, and we also see that a lot of doctors do not shy away from prison. As I mentioned earlier, hundreds of thousands of forints are required in advance for certain treatments or benefits. Another category, which I also mentioned, where doctors are on the run from the client. I think that a much stronger state involvement is needed in a healthcare with a solidarity principle. Nevertheless, what I see now is that if the government didn't do anything at all, there would automatically be two levels of healthcare in Hungary. To be precise, two levels of healthcare have already been established in Hungary. In a solidarity-based healthcare based on a free community of risks, care is free of charge in addition to medicines and some special care, and there is a strong public engagement. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I think that this kind of activity, which I was just talking about, also strengthens the tension between the doctor and the client, and twice the insured person pays because he pays once in the form of taxes and contributions and then pays in envelopes. That is why I am asking when a monitoring system will be planned to introduce and adapt this system to make things about gratuity money clear. My second question is whether you consider it fair to pay twice for benefits: once in the form of contributions and once in the form of gratuity. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-03-18-98	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I give the floor to Dr. Ildikó Horváth, State Secretary.
u2019-03-18-99	Mr President, Congressman Lords! Congresswoman! Honourable Congressman, Thank you for bringing up the subject of talking about it. The consequences of the '50s on health care have long been borne by this country, because when the then government, the then party convention and the communist dictatorship put the pay of doctors to the same level as those of the auxiliary workers, and wrote that the patients would make up for it, it brought with it the consequences that we still have to deal with for many decades. We are struggling to make this more transparent, visible, fighting to make it clear what is gratuity money, and what is open, punished corruption, what is corruption pressure, and what is the corruption that the service providers want to achieve, and we believe that what the surveys show is not really a good indicator. If people in Hungary are asked what disturbs them in the health care system today, very few people name gratuity money as a distraction; it is because the culture that developed in the '50s left very strong traces. The new generation, the residents, when they accepted the scholarship that started them in the early 2010s, they signed that they would not accept gratuity money. It is clear that, if we continue to improve wages and make them competitive, with further wage increases, it is reasonable to expect that, in the form of thanks, the doctors will not accept money, and the few you have mentioned and, if any, I think it is very important to draw a clear line between who still carries out a practice in which they expect money, asks for money, this requires a clear change, and we will continue to work on this, that the unlawful form in which criminal proceedings can be filed, where they do otherwise do so, when it is necessary, that society does not hold it and do not reject it. I also ask you for a partnership in order to be able to go on this path effectively, so that the healthcare system provides a service that protects and provides adequate protection against the excessive financial burden for patients. There are plenty of good examples in this direction. It is no coincidence that classes are expressing, expressing and expressing that they are unwilling to accept anything in the form of gratitude money, not interested in corruption. They want to do their job fair and square, and this Hippocratic oath doesn't include any such financial consideration in any way. Obviously, the public is a great help, and we trust you to do so. We're gonna make it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-100	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will ask Congressman Lajos Korózs if he will accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2019-03-18-101	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, How it was in the early '50s, I don't know, because I haven't been born yet. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] One thing I know for sure: in the case of private spending, if the government were to take steps to encourage employer contributions to private insurers, for example, it would certainly help families where an unexpected expense has to be financed, say, through a private insurance company. Such a measure has been or has been an opportunity for years, for example, in the cafeteria system, where employers had the opportunity to pay certain amounts with a tax discount through the cafeteria system in order to enable their employees to finance an unexpected situation. Unfortunately, at the government's initiative, the majority in Parliament ended this on 1 January. So thank you very much for your answer, but I can't accept it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-03-18-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Member did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Now vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes to 24, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why do you wish to raise the beggars of Europe? ! It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai has the floor.
u2019-03-18-103	Thank you. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to the report of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, one third, to exactly 33,6 percent of Hungarian children are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. This is the fourth worst figure in the EU, which only Bulgaria and Romania and, to a small extent, Greece are at a disadvantage. More than a quarter of children live in housing poverty, where the family struggles more and more hopelessly every month to pay for housing costs. If there's any place, these kids in their family could use family support. Unfortunately, there is a decisive difference between you and us. [[Katalin Novak: Thank God!]] You think that the family support system should be encouraged to take on as many children as possible, but we believe that it is not a child-related premium that encourages child-bearing, but if we provide children who are born today with decent conditions and can be raised in such circumstances. Accordingly, you are intended primarily for wealthy, wealthy families with the aim of having more children there, but we think that the more difficult a family is to live in, the more it is necessary to support the upbringing of their children, especially if poverty has something to do with taking on more children. Accordingly, during their nine-year anniversary, you did not increase the family allowance or the child's amount by a single penny, while the family tax relief was introduced and the average amount of ged was increased by 85 percent. The only difference in value is that we disagree with this method, but the fact remains, Madam Secretary, that, despite your lurking here, your efforts have remained infertile, because while at least 95 thousand children have been born during our administration, and in fact, in two years their number has been barely behind the hundred thousand, this number has been stagnating around 90 thousand since 2010. [[16.00]] There is also a sharp difference between the seven-point family protection programme presented by you and the Democratic Coalition. You're talking about a reduced loan, you're talking about taking over a mortgage loan, you're talking about helping people who can even think about buying or maintaining a car with a fixed amount of money. We, however, would immediately and significantly increase the family allowance, and we would prevent families with children from being put on the streets, and we would also want to improve the quality of public health and public education, because, you know, Madam State Secretary, most families cannot afford private schools or paid health care. So we want to bring the chance of Hungarian children closer to the European average with our programme, but you want to increase their unsuccessful efforts so far, which has led to the birth of not more, but fewer children, at the same time as seeing how many people in this country are poor and how very few people will be rich, such as Lőrinc Mészáros. Of course, there are families for whom this program and your family support are usually very good and very excellent. Such is the Orbán family, such is the Ripper family, and so is the Tiborcz family. I just want to ask you why all the other families aren't important. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-18-104	Thank you, Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai. I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Novák.
u2019-03-18-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Then let us try to have a professional debate with each other; it would be good if facts were clashed with facts. Congresswoman speaking of data, I would like to offer you some information. The data you presented did not exist in 2015 anymore. If we look at how the number of families and children affected by poverty or social exclusion has changed in recent years, we see that today this figure is 23,8 percent according to statistics. [[Gergely Harvesto: Everything is fine, only one in four children is poor!]] The European Union average is 24.9 percent, so we are in a better position in Hungary than the European Union average. During your administration, the same figure was 38.7 percent. So if you'd like to subpoena numbers, let's speak openly and honestly. Today, the number of children at risk of poverty and social exclusion is 40 percent lower than the number in your governance. I am saying that there is still work to be done in this area, and we cannot rest until this indicator is even two digits, but we are much further ahead than we were in your administration. So we were able to reduce this number by 40% in seven years. In seven years the number of these children has decreased by more than 300,000, and the number of people affected by poverty or social exclusion has decreased by 1.2 million in Hungary. These are the official records. If we talk about data, let's talk about factual data. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Then he also said that we'd skyrocketed the average of family tax breaks and kids. I am pleased that at least you acknowledge that there has been a significant increase in the average of the family tax allowance or of the child. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Let's talk about family allowance.]] We can help more families with this. But you know that when it comes to the return of family tax relief, which we did again at the beginning of our administration, after you led it out, the next step in the family tax relief was to extend it to tax contributions, just in order for the low-income to benefit from this possibility. In addition, free children's meals have been introduced: today we spend three and a half times as much on children's meals as we do on your government. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We introduced this, too. It's the right thing to do.]] Today, a large proportion of children in kindergarten and kindergarten eat free in daycare and kindergarten, and more in elementary school than in your time of government. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Thank you to the Gyurcsány government for doing this!]] We've made textbook care free. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's what we do!]] Today, the first nine years are free of charge to provide textbooks to families. We've introduced the Elizabeth camps. As I'm sure you recall, you also introduced it, I say no. We started the Erzsébet camps, providing free camping opportunities for hundreds of thousands of children every year through the Erzsébet camps. Indeed, we have worked on family support. That's because there's work. [[Gergely Harvestó: Public works, that's what! You should try it sometime.]] There was no work at your time, unemployment; today there is job opportunities and work-bound family support. By the way, more than 99 percent of the Hungarian people surveyed agree, and they agree with the link between work and family support. And if we are talking about demographics, Madam Congresswoman, I am asking you to stick to the facts here. What you're saying is misleading because every decent demographer uses the fertility index to describe fertility processes. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The fertility index does not go to kindergarten!]] This fertility rate has increased by more than 20 percent in recent years. If it had been fixed at the level that was at the time of your government, there would be 75,000 fewer children today, and by 2030 the number of births in Hungary would be reduced to 59 thousand. So what I'm asking is that we stick to the facts, and I'll be happy if you are positive and supportive of the changes to the law on the family protection plan. [[Zsolt Gréczy: There have never been so few children born from your family policy.]] Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-18-106	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-107	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, All you had to do was tell me it wasn't enough for a minute to answer. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Therefore, allow me to say that in terms of numbers, you obviously work from the data of the HCSO many times, where we know that they like to forge, but let me have a number. You must know this: 20 million forints, 20 million forints your ministry gave to Catholic women training. Its task is to train doctors and nurses, educators, who can teach women who have menstrual disorders, infertility, their own femininity, health, and desire to follow their bodies. Well, that's what science says today. That's why we need women to give birth. Now, imagine, Secretary of State, I know that 20 million is small money for you, but in this program that you support along with the Catholic Charity Service, for example, the doctor who is involved in such a program, undertakes not to help barren couples to have children, does not help with semantics and does not provide assistance to raped women. That's how you think about women who are often said to be the foundation of the family. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You're willing to spend 20 million forints on this. And by the way, you're lying all over the place about different statistics. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Katalin Novak: I resent it! I resent it.]] You'll study it yourself...
u2019-03-18-108	Congresswoman! [[It's a lot of noise.]]
u2019-03-18-109	Your answer is still not acceptable! [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-18-110	Congresswoman! [[Márius Révész: Look at the data! KSH! Dr. Agnes Vadai: KSH is lying!]] The interpellation genre should be dominated by professionalism, so I am obliged to warn you. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I didn't offend you, you weren't telling the truth!]] He did not say that he would not accept the reply of the responder, but the content of his comment was. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Congresswoman, time's up, so they're done. [[György Balla: Give him a prisznic! Dr. Agnes Vadai keeps interrupting.]] But there is no place for a private conversation in the Chamber, so since the congresswoman has not accepted the State Secretary's reply, I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant without a wallet:, What a waste of public money is going on at Paks II Zrt.? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, At present, Fidesz spends hundreds of billions of Hungarian taxpayers' money on Paks II without a single slash, which does not even have a deadline to build. In this regard, I asked the Minister a written question, which I received nice, evasive responses, although it was certainly better in its quality compared to the usual Fidesz response, since at least there was no migranting and serialisation. Minister, in reply, he wrote that Paks II. It is built because it is our national interest to reduce our exposure to energy imports in the long term. The only problem with that is that Paks II and I will be dependent on Russian technology, and that means more Russian influence than ever. So it's not the import addiction that's the big problem, it's the one-sided one. Paks II. and it would be one-sided, which is why the future is renewable, decentralised energy production and procurement, which can ensure our energy independence. But there are other problems with Russian technology. Last week was the 8th anniversary of the Fukushima disaster. In March 2011, radioactive material was released from the Japanese power plant in large quantities, contaminating the environment for hundreds of miles. [[16.10]] According to the report of the Japanese Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, the main reason for the disaster was that the state control authorities underestimated the risk and did not do everything to ensure the essential security measures, which is why the disaster took place. The problem is that Paks II. It would also be built next to a tectonic fault line. We know that the answer to this is that Hungary is not exposed to earthquakes. The last earthquake in Hungary on March 7, 2019 was in Somogy County, near Somogyszob, just over a week ago. The earth's movement was medium to 4 on the Richter scale. The residents of the area said that the earthquake could be felt even in the neighbouring county of Zala, for a short period of three to five seconds, but the house trembled. If we underestimate the risks, then Paks II is easily Fukushima II. Maybe, and this is Russian technology, not Japanese. Let's cross-reference the Toyota with a Lada. Dear Minister, What would you buy as a family car with your children in it - a Lada or a Toyota? I look forward to your reply.
u2019-03-18-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister János Süli has the floor, please.
u2019-03-18-113	Dear House of Representatives, Honourable Congressman, I don't know what kind of car I'd buy, but we live there, Paks, my kids live there, my grandkids live there, so it doesn't matter if we're dating Lada or Toyota, we live at the base of this existing power plant, and we're gonna live at the base of the new power plant. So I don't consider the risk irresponsible, because then we probably wouldn't live on Paks and go to work from there. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The other is, I'd like you to get firsthand information. We talked here at the beginning about the fact that the press can write any articles, and I'm not sure it's true. I have invited every parliamentary committee to visit Paks, it has now honoured three committees, and then we have no four minutes to inform you of what the construction of the new block is about. By the way, the new block is called VVER-1200, three plus, so third generation plus security systems and so-called Fukushima-resistant. It is clear here in Parliament that the Fukushima bloc was not damaged by the earthquake, the earthquake was survived by the power plant, it was left out of the scale that a tsunami of 12 metres could appear in that area. This was the responsibility of the designers, indisputable. Therefore, after Fukushima, all power plants had to be examined in order to see if there was any missing dimensioning principle that could happen. So, Pakson's earthquake protection criteria are fully met by Unit I and also by Unit II. Blocks will be fine. This is an increased requirement, so it is not possible to adapt Russian plans to the Paks site at the same time, but requires some redesign. When you say we're slipping with the blocks, that's not a whoops, that's a technical issue. Oops is a separate category [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But at the nuclear power plant, it's a technical issue. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That will be tens of billions!]] No, it will not be more expensive, because it is a fixed price, which is clear that it costs EUR 12.5 billion, and it has been cemented by the Brussels Commission, and it has also been cemented, and it has stated as a result of your investigation that it will generate 7,35 percent profit compared to all power plants, which in Hungary will produce a much cheaper production. If we compare the data in Germany, I do not want to detail the previous one here, but it is very important that we do not talk about it, in order to solve the objectives in Germany, four settlements fell victim, and we had to break down the settlement to give ground for the exploration of lignite resources, and also that the biggest protest in Germany in recent years was with 50,000 people precisely because of forest slaughters, so that these lignite explorations could be done. In Germany, CO2 emissions are twice that of Hungarian data, and we want to monkey Germany as an example. We believe that this has been confirmed by the OECD's NEA study that energy problems can be solved by taking into account the environmental, climate and other options of all countries. Pakson, by the way, is energy independence: for two years he has stored in a smaller room, a quarter of it, like this council hall could replace a smaller one, not at its height. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Compared to its floor area, two-year fuel supply is stored and fuel can be obtained from anywhere on the world market, thus enabling energy independence. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-114	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio if he will accept the ministerial answer.
u2019-03-18-115	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Thank you for your answer. We know this reactor. [[Defiance, applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] This is the reactor... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-03-18-116	Fellow Members!
u2019-03-18-117	Is this the reactor that had to be shut down in St. Petersburg in February 2019 due to technical failure? This is the reactor. By the way, I would advise you that the Dialogue has developed an energy security programme, which is nuclear-free, called the Green Energy Roadmap, and I will be able to get it to the Minister. He didn't answer the question whether it was Lada or Toyota, so I can't accept his answer. Thank you.
u2019-03-18-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Minister's reply, so I ask you if you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 112 votes to 26, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice by which means does the Government act in the fight against the home mafia? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Kovács has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-119	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The following years were marked by the high number of crimes committed by criminal organisations. One of the widespread types of organized crime was the so-called home mafia. The members of the organisation have specialized in encouraging disadvantaged, vulnerable persons to be cheated into transferring the property serving as their home for minimum compensation or even for free to a member of the organisation. It's a typical case of cheating to sign a fake loan agreement with the intended victim. Of course, effective implementation of these acts required local government workers, notaries or lawyers who contributed to the looting of deceived people by their activities. Unfortunately, a lot of people fell victim to the condo mafia and became homeless. With the Fate-Társak Public Benefit Association, set up to help victims [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] a large number of troubled people contacted and provided documents on their cases. One of the television programmes was attended by the founder of the association, during which one of the documents in question included the signature and stamp of lawyer Dr. Andrea Damm. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's literally the same line as last week!]] My fellow Members are right to believe that Andrea Varga-Damm is a betterman. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] According to press reports, the lawyer was examined in several cases by the Budapest Bar Association, which ruled out the lawyer from among its members in 2006. According to the news, Andrea Damm was not dissuaded by the exclusion, Andrea Varga continued his activities, now in the company of the Győr-Moson-Sopron County Bar Association. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] According to the founder of the association, the name of the company represented by Andrea Varga-Damm [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's the same line as last week!]] there is a large number of evictions that need to be repeated a lot. Many have gone rogue, lost their only refuge, their home. If the foregoing are to be confirmed, I find it particularly repulsive that, after such acts, the better representative is able to play a leading role in the fight against eviction and direct the media's attention to herself. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask the Honourable Secretary of State what means the government will use in the fight against the home mafia. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-120	We will hear the answer from State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[16.20]]
u2019-03-18-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The housing mafia has several areas, whether we look at housing transactions or in the area of tax evasion. One of the main areas of abuse, as I mentioned, is tax fraud, where the state's margin of manoeuvre in the repression of housing mafia, for example, is quite limited in terms of the rental market. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]] I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the visibility of this type of illegal activity is large, difficult to prove, since such cases are not fully documented. Typically, private individuals rented apartments to private individuals for a mutually negotiated rent. Due to the specific features of the housing market, there is unfortunately a high risk of tax avoidance, so it is the responsibility of the State to whiten the market. If we were to limit the rent, there would be even more reduction in the legal private rental offer and, on the other hand, some of the transactions on the banner would be transferred to the black or grey zone. The smaller legal housing supply would also drive up official prices. As you said, Congressman, the other area is the abuse of property property, which can be reflected in either housing or credit transactions. According to information published in the press, it is true that Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Member of the Parliament of Jobbik, was involved in such a case, who had previously worked as a lawyer in this area. It has also prepared a number of sales contracts that may be closely linked to so-called housing mafia transactions. Under the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the power of the people is exceptionally exercised directly by their elected representatives. In addition, the Members of Parliament carry out their activities in the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the question arises whether Andrea Varga-Damm acted in accordance with the will of the voters when she was involved as a lawyer in concluding fake housing contracts and could appear as a credible representative in the Hungarian Parliament. According to the press, Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik's politician, was actually expelled from the bar. It is also clear from this, ladies and gentlemen, that in the past there have been serious things that have ended with bar exclusion. As a Member of Parliament, she must comply with a higher standard. This attitude is not compatible with the obligation that voters have entrusted us with. Congresswoman, voters deserve to know the truth about whether they really have something to do with these cases that have appeared in the press and why they had to be excluded from the Chamber in the past. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is this the judgment, Mr. President?]] I would like to remind you that Jobbik announced in December 2014 that the Varga-Damm Andrea, involved in foreign exchange credit litigation, will be launched in the February interim election. The candidate was presented by the then party president Gábor Vona as the face of the foreign exchangers Jeanne d. At that time, she said that in her work she had always been driven by the search for justice, which is why she began to deal with the illegal nature of foreign exchange credit and its impact on society. The question arises whether, in connection with this matter, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm was driven by the search for justice or by the search for money. Now would be a good time to find out the truth about this case. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-18-123	Thank you. Mr President, I think that the government's measure, which gives the authority to correct the lease and ownership, to collect legal rents and to form taxes, is a good direction. I think these fake contracts can't be done with faked and misguided lawyers and lawyers. This proved that Jobbik was able to do anything for money and power in the past and in the present. I respectfully accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Anti-Science Tragedy in several acts What will be the outcome? It's an address. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The next act of tragedy about the deliberate destruction of the MTA took place at the end of 2018, when Minister Palkovics did not participate in the extraordinary meeting of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences without taking into account his public mission, and then said to the camera that, on the one hand, the preparatory materials of the MTA were so to speak, unworthy, but the conditions of the government were accepted by the Academy. This was immediately denied by those involved. In Jobbik's view, Minister's insulting act and lies are clearly part of the dictatorial power policy that Fidesz has been pursuing for some time in the face of academic and university freedom. The anti-knowledge and intellectually fidesz steam cylinder did not pause in 2019. In January, it turned out that the Minister made it clear that he did not want to provide the legal resources of the research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, so that the substantial research work would be impossible and the operation of the research networks would be in jeopardy. [[Sándor Szabó takes the notary seat.]] The so-called plan of Palkovics, according to a leaked conversation, did not know the compromise. I would like to quote from this leaked conversation; I quote Minister: the Institute network must be separated from the management of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, from the public body, and made independent. The MTA public body shall have no direct influence on the functioning of the system. - End of subpoena, fellow Members. As an eloquent proof of this Bolshevik power policy, Minister, he compared the current situation in MTA with the CEU case, so it can be seen that the professional part of the lex CEU was only a reference to its measures to reduce research and university freedom. Finally, it turned out that Minister Palkovic did not shy away from extortion, as the former Minister of Education Fidesz, former President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, colleague Pálinkás, pointed out first. So I ask the government: what is the need for all this? Does the international competitiveness of the Hungarian scientific sphere still matter to you, or is it all about complete Fidesz government control? How can a government that lies to civilians and national citizens continue such a uncompromising Bolshevik power policy? What about the researchers who drifted into an existential crisis because of your policy and the research that we have left behind? And finally, your home university, the university world, is Lőrince Mészáros, so would the National University of Public Service really integrate the Center for Humanities and Social Sciences, which has been ripped out of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, as well as the Institute for Economic Research? I look forward to your substantive response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-18-126	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, has answered his interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-18-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Your speech is another impression of your credibility crisis. This can be established because they are trembling about the freedom of research in their statements, and they have been colliding with those who would have made certain institutions of the Academy equal to the earth during János Kóka's time. Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, we know that this country has a future only if it is based on Hungarian families and is shaped by Hungarian knowledge. Thus, regarding the renewal of the Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation institutional system, including the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the government has already made its views and plans clear many times. So our goals can be clear to everyone. We are working to ensure that Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation can contribute more and more effectively to Hungary's development. Our goal is to increase the number of domestic research. Our goal is to create more patents as a fruit of research. Our aim is to ensure that the renewable institutional system is able to achieve better results than before. Honourable Congressman, While you are now alarming a crisis, the truth is that the Academy and the Ministry of Innovation and Technology expressed in a joint declaration of intent on 8 March that the establishment of a suitable solution for both parties is now only dependent on the development of detailed questions. You seem to have missed that. [[16.30]] Campaign actions such as yours, which create tensions and emotions for political reasons, which try to hinder this work, are not only aimless and misguided, but also directly harmful, endanger the effectiveness of Hungarian science and domestic innovation. The MSZP and DK, which are your new allies, with which you are accompanied by a display of local cooperation, and with which you are preparing for national electoral cooperation, this MSZP and DK, when they were in a decision-making position, wanted to destroy the Academy together with their ally, the Liberals. This is how the MTA has been told about areas of a particular Kóka quote that do not directly serve competitiveness, and must be made equal to the ground, because they only produce dusty documents. That's what the quote said. In case you didn't know, János Kóka was the minister of the Gyurcsány government. But it looks like that's what your allies are planning to do if they happen to be in a decision-making situation. You seem to want to be worthy of this tradition. I ask you, as I have asked of one of your fellow Members, who also asked questions about the MTA to be patient. Let us wait for the outcome of the negotiations, the negotiations are going to take place, and in a short time you will see that, as a result of these negotiations, a very, very reassuring agreement will be reached, where the restructuring and financing of the institutional system will be implemented in such a way that the service of the Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy can be best ensured. I would ask you once again to wait for the outcome of these negotiations before making any more unfounded questions and guesses, and then, as a result of the negotiations and the facts, to determine the path to the expectation that the Minister and the President of the MTA can achieve and achieve in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Brenner Koloman if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-129	Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your reply, unfortunately, because it is clear that, as a result of the blackmail I have raised, President Lovás has accepted the outsourcing of the research institute network. But I'd like to quote the Fox you quoted as your spiritual predecessor; I'd like to address the Frogs. I would like to quote the letter from the Academic Workers Forum to the Prime Minister in this House, in which he compared the government's dictatorial power policy to ancient Christian persecutions. As it says, I quote that the Academy is not a brick or mortar, not a number in the budget, not an inventory of dead things, the Academy is ourselves. With their letter, we agree to a great deal, and the Jobbik solidarity with these 5,000 families and researchers, most of whom will probably leave this country for your policy. Of course, Jobbik, as a national party, always stands up for academic freedom and academic autonomy. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-18-130	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstentions. It is now possible for me to speak to candidates on a case-by-case basis. On a case-by-case basis, Ms Ágnes Valai, from the DK Group, asked for the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman, in a minute.
u2019-03-18-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, After the sixth interpellation, I wanted to get an opportunity, because Speaker László Kövér and Vice President Sándor Lezsák were seriously deceived, and that upsets me very much, to be honest. Especially since László Kövér, the Speaker of the House, has been deceived, since the Fundamental Law of the Party of one and a half is 7. Article 2 of the Act states that the KDNP members are sorry that the MP may address an interpellation and a question to the government and to the member of the government in any matter of his or her responsibilities. I didn't know, to be honest, and I couldn't find it anywhere, but they'll help me find that the Prime Minister's office and the Prime Minister's Office have jurisdiction over the Democratic Coalition. Because the interpellation sounded like a political one for whom, Ferenc Gyurcsány, President of DK? In addition, Vice-President Sándor Lezsák was deceived, because for some reason Mr. Vice-President gave the floor to Dr. Balázs Orbán, who, to the best of my knowledge, had not been a member of the Democratic Coalition until this morning. But he may have entered in the last few hours. Therefore, at the same time, I know that in order to enter, certain criteria should be met...
u2019-03-18-132	Congresswoman! Congresswoman! Congresswoman! Now I'm speaking to you, and if you allow me to continue, we'll have a dialogue. If you don't, I'm going to take the floor from you, because you're way past the time you could have put it to the point.
u2019-03-18-133	I had to tell you the circumstances, Mr. President. So I would like the House to discuss, at a House Committee meeting, how it is possible that László Kövér and Sándor Lezsák fell into the magic circle of such deception. Especially because Mr Speaker often rejects questions he doesn't like. I would like the next time such a question comes before the House, where the Democratic Coalition is directly involved, because there is a question relating to the party's activities, not to give the floor to Balázs Orbán, but to the Vice-President of the Democratic Coalition, for example. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-18-134	Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm asked to speak as a matter of personal concern. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that I am doing something right that I am the subject of an immediate question or interpellation in this House from week to week. [[Defiance.]] I'm sure they have some kind of survey, and I've reached some level of popularity. Rogán Tonchi looks like he's laughing. I'm sure there's something to this... [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-136	Congresswoman! Congresswoman, I gave you the floor without further ado, but you cannot use that term. Okay? ! I expect a parliamentary form from you, just like you can't mess around in court.
u2019-03-18-137	Thank you. So the text that Sándor Kovács and then Secretary of State Pál Völner have said is a lot of nonsense, it is a matter for the court and we will discuss it there. Anyway, if there's an apartment mafia, then my question is, for the past 13 years, since it's been governed by Fidesz [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, including 13 years ago? Oops! Let the prophet speak of you.]] Why didn't you manage to liquidate this first. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] My second question is, you know, you can't count, but it's still 13; my next question is that who has been a parliamentary party for 29 years and has been ruling for 13 years, that he doesn't know that the question that Mr Sándor Kovács put is not within the remit of the Ministry of Justice. So President László Fat should have rejected this. Come on. My darlings! So after we've achieved that Fidesz still doesn't know who's in charge, that's why we had to bring this to the House. Unfortunately, Speaker László Fat was deceived and sustained this interpellation. But what I can tell you is that the Fidesz to be disbanded by treason still has time to... [[They're shutting off his mike.]]
u2019-03-18-138	Congresswoman, we're done here. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] That insult doesn't work. Madam Vadai, if you calm down, I will arrange for the House Committee to be convened, in due time, during this session, to receive the date when this will happen. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're moving to immediate questioning. Congressman Peter James, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does power take advantage of all our patience? It's an address. Congressman Peter James has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, You are slowly approaching the end of your political career. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] And that's all right, because apparently it's not healthy to sit in that chair for a long time. At this point, at the end of the track, it's customary to make a scale of where you've come from. If you'll excuse me, I'll help you. [[16.40]] You, Prime Minister, have reached exactly where you started in the last 30 years: you have become an old communist from a young communist. It's a fact, and it has to be acknowledged that that's why there's been some democratic deviation over the 30 years. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] I'm not talking about the sponsor, György Soros. I'm thinking more about your spiritual predecessor, Mátyás Rákosi, Prime Minister. [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks.]] The resemblance is shocking, and it's not about the body, it's about the working method. Mátyás Rákosi said that the plants must be nationalized. Prime Minister, that is exactly what you are doing, but now nationalization is called Lőrinc Mészáros, and the state by Viktor Orbán. Lawrence takes what belongs to the people and gives it to you. Then Mátyás Rákosi also said that the press should not be a means of mass media, but of mass education. He also did this: he created the central brainwashing, the fidesz media holding, so now we can listen on TV and on the radio from morning to night, that Soros and Brussels have a plan, and that's very dangerous. Even the Fidesz leader of the media holding said that this was not a press, but that something else had to go; Viktor Rákosi did not give mercy. I'll add it to the opposition. He also learned from the mentor, as Mátyás Rákosi said that the opposition should not be debated, that the opposition should not be consulted, that the opposition should be dealt with, and that is exactly what you are doing. The opposition parties are to be bled out by the Party State Audit Office and the opposition representatives by Comrade Fat. Well, so much for free elections and multi-partyism. So, with all due respect, Prime Minister, when you received $10,000 from George Soros 30 years ago, did you think you'd become this? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Did you ever think that young communists would become old communists and that Hungary would become a party state again? Is this the life you've imagined for yourself and for the country? Honestly. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-18-140	I would like the answer, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-03-18-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The congressman said I was approaching the end of my career. I would like to inform him that this is a profession where a man's career is decided by voters. Your fate has been decided by the voters, which is why they are where they are now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intercoms from Jobbik: Liar thief!]]
u2019-03-18-142	Thank you very much. For a one-minute rejoinder, I'll give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-143	Prime Minister! The thing is, the windcocks are doomed to fail. [[There's a lot of information in the pro-government benches. Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! That's right! A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] Let's just say, unlike you, I've never been a communist. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm not a Nazi. I wasn't a Soros scholar, but I wasn't a thief. Unlike you, I would never strive to rule the Hungarians, to steal from the Hungarians, or to silence those who disagree with me. I am also able, Prime Minister, to listen to my fellow countrymen who think very differently about the world than I do. The thing is, Prime Minister, today we're better off as the People's Party, and you're an extremist and hate group. [[Rumble and clear from the pro-government benches. Intercom from the pro-government benches: Small is the people you represent!]] that can do anything for power and the opposite. You, Prime Minister, are a Soros scholar, a communist, and a Nazi dreamer of Viktor Yugend. You'd both be proud of Rakosi and Goebbels, the two extremes. It's just that they left the ones between them. We represent them, no matter who's right and who's left. Prime Minister, there is a new national unity in Hungary. Do you know what that means? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It means you can start writing your memoirs. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. László Szászfalvi: New National Unit! Shame on you!]]
u2019-03-18-144	One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister.
u2019-03-18-145	As for the comment on the windcock, all I'm saying is that you said it. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] The title of your question was how long power will abuse us all's patience. Patience and abuse, I see, is more of a violation of people's patience. He's trying to draw attention to himself with his childish squabbling. It's an old truth, of course, that everyone cooks with what they have. [[Interviews from Jobbik: Conjectures, arguments!]] He even sat in my chair at the last parliamentary disturbance. I understand your desire for power and your lack of patience. I suggest, however, that you wait your turn, and in the meantime learn some manners, and do not embarrass those who raised you and taught you at school. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] Believe me, some good manners and civilized behavior have never harmed anyone. Try it. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-146	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who do you leave on the side of the road? It's an address. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you questions about the family protection action plan, because we can see the government programme that has already been put in place, and on which measures have been taken, in which there are forward-looking elements, but what we, but a lot of people see is that it affects very few families and affects a very narrow layer. The fate of families is extremely important to me personally and to the Hungarian Socialist Party, but we say that the fate of as many families as possible should be important. After all, there are 503,000 single-parent families in Hungary, where poverty is greatest, because 40 percent of them live in poverty, 14 percent of families are based on partnership, 300 thousand couples are struggling with infertility, and in this action plan, we see no action on them at all in this programme. We do not talk about families, or you do not talk about them, who are unable to benefit from family tax relief, as the Hungarian National Bank itself wrote in a study that if they could use it as support, 70-80 percent of families with three children would receive additional support, but you do not talk about it, there is nothing in this measure. We see that 27 percent of people under 18 live in homes that are dark, which are wet, which are soaked, where there is no toilet and bath. We see the rent and property prices are skyrocketing, unfortunately thanks to your family's support. But there is no social housing program, their livelihood, their provision is not at all covered by any government measures, especially when you consider that neither the family allowance nor the legal or maternity allowance has risen in 11 years. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you how long you wish to distinguish between a Hungarian child and a Hungarian child. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-03-18-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-03-18-149	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Mr President, First of all, thank you very much for your question, and secondly, allow me to congratulate you personally on the birth of your child, which further underlines the seriousness of this issue. Maybe we didn't say it right, but if you look at our family policy plan, you'll see there's no distinction there. We do not distinguish between children, nor do we distinguish between families. It is undoubtedly true that there is one between us, which is not personal, but rather a philosophical difference between our parties, which exists, because you always regularly prioritise family support elements that are subjective, and we prefer the family support elements that we can link to work. I think that this is not a difference between our opinions on the importance of families, but rather a difference in means which are the means to be used. What I have learned, and I do not refer to the fact that we have learned this under your governance, that when family support is not linked to work, the effectiveness of using family support resources is extremely limited. Therefore, I will strive, in the future, to reach all children, all families, and, through work, to obtain the most public benefits to support families and children. Similarly, there is a difference of opinion between us in the matter of housing policy. I think you're wrong about the numbers and the facts, because the current family policy action plan is just expanding access to housing, creating homes for the poorer, but there is a difference about what our home policy, rent or private property should focus on. The ratio is always the question [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] 'Cause we need both of them. Our conviction is that property must be at the centre, and the lease can only be complementary to that; and you think the other way around. But that's why we're in the government and you're in the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-150	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for your congratulations, and I am pleased that my daughter was born in Hungary, because the figures show that this government policy is not very successful, since one in six Hungarian children are born abroad today. [[16.50]] And if there is money, and you say that there is money, for example, to build an island on Felcsú, then there should be money to support all families, because it is not a child's fault that he is born into a family of one or two children, it is not his fault that his parents decide to separate and be raised by a parent. We therefore demand and ask to increase the family allowance, double it, facilitate the return of mothers to work, eliminate the pay gap between men and women. Don't just talk about nursery expansion, but build crèches. If you can't get a family tax allowance, give it to him as a support. And yes, start a social housing program. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Because today, a young family has to save 20 or 30 years to get an apartment! Thank you very much.
u2019-03-18-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-153	Perhaps the momentum has pushed my fellow Member a little too far, demanding something that we cannot solve. For example, removing the difference between men and women is a demand that we cannot meet. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Wage difference!]] That's another thing, of course, we can talk about that, but that's not what this is about. In any case, I would just like to say to you that if there is agreement between us on the purpose of things, if there is agreement between us on the substance of the matter, that is, families are important, children are important, their support is important, and although you may not be satisfied with everything we are doing, but if you find good in it, I would nevertheless like to ask you to support the family protection action plan that we have put forward and which we are discussing in this House right now. I'm counting on the Socialist Party's votes, so let's turn this family's question into a national matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-154	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do Hungarians also deserve European wages? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Harvesto has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-155	Prime Minister! In your previous reply, you found it funny that Hungarian women earn less in the same job than Hungarian men. We don't find this funny, and we don't find it something that we can easily shoulder the Prime Minister of the country. And if you really care about all the Hungarian children, then you should instruct your Mamluks to let the Democratic Coalition's seven-point family support proposal come before Parliament, which really helps the Hungarian families and discuss it. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interview from KDNP lines: Isn't it European?]] Make them statesmen, come here, let's argue about it. Don't wash it off, don't make this proposal disappear. Prime Minister! For more children to be born, it takes, among other things, good wages. Your government seeks the favors of the multinationals in every way, strives to give them a tax reduction, provides one of Europe's lowest corporate taxes, and, in addition, welcomes the multinationals with 400 hours of overtime, while Hungarians receive one of the lowest salaries in the European Community. In Hungary today, 13 percent of the minimum hourly wage is the average of the European Union. I wouldn't go into the fact that Lőrinc Mészáros, which means that you earn the same amount of money in ten seconds, but the fact is that we are increasingly lagging behind Europe's wages, while, by the way, the multinationals are being helped by this government in an unprecedented way. That is why we are proposing that the European United States should have a European tax on multinationals, and that is why we are proposing that there should be a European minimum wage and that there should be European labour rules. You don't want to do this because it's ruining your business. Prime Minister! Why do Hungarian workers not deserve European wages? Answer that. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-18-156	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-03-18-157	I know it was a long time ago, but I remind my honourable fellow Member that you are in the ranks of an ex-government party, you have been in government for eight years, you could have really shown it. Too bad it didn't work out, and the country was bankrupt. I can tell you that when the Hungarian voters replaced you in 2010, the minimum wage in Hungary was HUF 71 500, today the minimum wage is HUF 149 thousand. When you were replaced by Hungarian voters in 2010, the gross average wage in Hungary was 199 thousand forints, and today it was 329 thousand forints. [[A statement from the opposition: Where?]] The tax rate that people were taxed on was significantly higher than it is now. These are the facts, my honourable fellow Member. I would like to discuss and argue with you on any economic policy issue, but an ex-Governor's Party or an ex-Governor's Party representative can be expected to take into account the facts when calling the current government to account. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-158	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-159	We heard the Hungarian voice of the multinationals here in the National Assembly. Here's a prime minister who says that Hungarians earn enough, and it's okay to have to work 400 hours overtime, it doesn't matter if European wages They're increasingly below the EU average, and it doesn't matter if this high average you're making is brought together by your friends, relatives and business partners, and not by average workers. But we understand, of course, because he hopes that if he is kind enough to the German multinationals, then German politicians will also be able to afford you, although, as I see, this period is almost over, because in a democracy you cannot buy everything. As far as governance is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Democratic Coalition has never been on government before. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Fantastic! Fantastic!]] But you can be sure there will be. [[The president's ringing the bell. A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]] Thank you.
u2019-03-18-160	Thank you very much. Prime Minister's word for rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-03-18-161	No matter how the rest of the day goes, we're not getting up for nothing today. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Because we found out that you weren't a state secretary in a previous government, and your party president wasn't prime minister for years? [[Zsolt Gréczy: He beat you! He beat you!]] And from here and from these benches, that's the impression. In any case, honourable Member, you have been threatening people for months to amend the Code of Work. I would like to inform you that the amendment to the Labour Code has been in force since 1 January. Everyone can see that you didn't tell the truth, that you're alarming me with overtime was just an excuse for you, in fact, the economy, thank you very much, very well, and by amending the Code of Work [[Gergely Harvester: Only the employees... the president bells.]] conditions have developed to the satisfaction of people. It is obvious that for you, this was just an excuse, just like the question of the care fee: from October to December, they campaigned against us, we raised the rate of the care fee, and you didn't vote for it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-162	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, MEPs of Péter Ungár and Márta Demeter, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question on the national affairs? It's an address. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, Mr. Group leader will begin the line. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-163	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, I'll ask the question alone, obviously. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about Hungary's most expensive project, the expansion of Paks. We can say that this is a profession-specific issue, but in recent months, we have tried very hard to ask the ministers who have been understaffed in this project, but we have also seen, in today's session, that, on the part of ministers, it is usually only a misconception on the part of those responsible. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That is why I am asking you, Prime Minister, in case you give us answers to these very important questions. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It may also be clear that the political decision-making competence of the Prime Minister is evident in a multi-million-dollar project. Here's the question, Prime Minister. At the time when you decided to give this project to the Russians without a tender, without competition, the reason was that only the Russians would be able to implement this project. At this time, we can see that the Russians have not been able to produce plans that comply with EU standards, so the project is in a huge delay. In particular, it has not started yet, so the installation authorisation procedure has not been completed, the appropriate plans have not been submitted, and you and the members of the government have acknowledged that there is an extremely serious delay in the project. This is a very serious, very serious contradiction, and I think, Prime Minister, the government has an answer, it has information to the public about this very serious contradiction. I have one more question in close connection with the Paks expansion. You have launched this huge investment in such a way that, according to our information, there is neither a professional nor a financing concept as to how the current power plant can be decommissioned after the shutdown. At present, there is neither a financing nor a professional concept. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, if the government has any idea of how much decommissioning will cost, how this will happen and where high-activity radioactive waste will be placed. Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[17.00]]
u2019-03-18-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-03-18-165	Honourable Congressman, As regards the assumption that the publication, evaluation and award of the tender would not have been properly carried out, I can tell you that every step that relates to this has been approved by the Commission of the European Union. My second point is that, of course, in terms of technical preparedness, the issue of a nuclear power plant requires a lot of man, I have repeatedly said that I do not have the readiness to answer technical questions. In fact, I have the impression that there are very few people in the whole country who have this readiness, and that there was no such person, not at all, among political decision-makers, and that is why we have decided that Hungary should indeed be at the head of and responsible for one of the most important investments in our future. You know very well that I'm in favour of a government philosophy that works with a tight staff, so I'm reluctant to increase the number of ministries and ministers. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: This is not the result of the number of State Secretarys!]] I thought that a dedicated special minister dealing with this matter would be needed here, who, by the way, is rightly and justified because it is an important issue that you can find, ask and have at any moment in the session. I therefore suggest to you that, if the government has already made this decision to deal with this issue by a special minister, and he is probably the only one of us who has not only visited the nuclear power plant but has also worked there, he may also be the only one among us who has launched a nuclear power plant in his life, so I suggest that, if you really consider the professional aspect of the issue to be important, you should continue to look to the Minister with confidence in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-166	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from the faction leader. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, we consider the professional aspects to be very important, but also the political aspects, and we can conclude that all the justifications that supported the implementation of the Paks enlargement in this way, which supported the 4,000 billion-dollar project, have already failed with delay. And the problem is that there is indeed an independent minister of this project, Minister Süli, but we have tried to ask him questions several times. [[Dr. Pál Völner: And he answered! A statement from the ruling parties: You just didn't get it!]] and did not give, did not give a meaningful reply. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] However, Prime Minister, in 2015... did I not ask you about the disposal of high-activity nuclear waste, in 2015, you were in Pécs, and then you were asked by the voters, and you said that there was only a possible location in the country, a possible location of a nuclear cemetery, and you promised the people in Pécs and its region that there would be no nuclear cemetery without their approval. It is the year 2019, and the people in Pécs and its region have not been asked, and billions of forints have been spent on research. Why didn't the people in Pécs and its region get the opportunity to express their views on a nuclear cemetery? And, to add, Prime Minister, it has not been realized anywhere in the world. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] a final high-activity nuclear waste storage, nuclear cemetery, so there is no accepted concept of placing high-activity waste anywhere, and it is now a political question whether, under such conditions and under such technical conditions, the government decides to launch such an investment.
u2019-03-18-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-169	I repeat once again my previous offer: Minister Süli, gentlemen, feel free to contact him with professional requests, whether it be nuclear power plants, waste and disposal. I agree with you, however, that there is also a political dimension to this issue, and in the political dimension, it is not the professionals who are competent, but those who have been elected by the people to make political decisions. There are two aspects in our consideration: firstly, we thought that it was not possible to place two different technologies on a site identical to or physically related to a nuclear power plant already operating, and here we have discussed this debate with you, and, secondly, it is important for us to have energy available at competitive prices in Hungary, which is also important because of the reduction in the costs and also because of the competitive industry. The situation is that, in Germany, electricity is currently costing HUF 94 a kilowatt, so we are paying HUF 36 in Hungary, and if we were to pursue the policy that you would propose, there would be about two and a half to three times the price increase for both consumers and industrial consumers and the general public. I can't support your concept. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-170	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Timea Szabó, the leader of the Dialogue Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. It's Szabó Timea's faction leader. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, This week, the European People's Party will discuss your exclusion, but believe it or not, it doesn't really matter whether you are expelled from the People's Party or not. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: What do you care?!]] Although it's spicy that your friend, Zsolt Bayer, called Manfred Weber a coward, I don't know if you share that opinion, but maybe we'll find out. The point is that you have said before that we are not watching what you are saying, but what you are doing, and we can see clearly that no matter what happens in the People's Party, you are discussing something, and you are not doing something, it is constantly rubbing against the European far-right parties. There's the Italian Salvini you called a personal hero, but there's Marine Le Pen, or there's the Dutch Wilders. These people and you are linked by two things: on the one hand, they are anti-Hungarians, because not only are they pro-immigration and their pro-immigration, they also apply to Hungarian workers, they do not want to see Hungarian workers there, and they do not want to see the workers of other countries. The other thing that connects them is that they lied down for Putin, and they lied down for Russia, right, Salvini is financed through an oil business by Putin, and Le Pen was loaned 11 million euros from a Russian bank. We know exactly that you've been in bed with Putin and Russia. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Come on! Come on.]] If we don't know anything else, the announcement last week is that you welcomed the International Investment Bank with open arms, known as the Russian Secret Service front. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] The MNB cannot control this bank, Hungarian police cannot enter the territory of this bank, and no Hungarian financial regulation applies to this bank. Prime Minister, what you're doing is net treason. On the one hand, he rubbed against anti-Hungarian European parties and on the other hand he offered Putin and Russia Hungary on a platter. You have not been authorised to do so, Prime Minister. I'd like to ask you about that. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Why do you think you can sell out the European Union and sell out Hungary to Putin?
u2019-03-18-172	Madam Chief of Staff, Madam Group, I ask you to follow the Prime Minister for an expression. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Which one? Szabó Timea: For the Intercoms.]] I'll give the Prime Minister the floor, please.
u2019-03-18-173	Thank you so much for... [[Intercoms.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I have to say, you don't like sexist comments, but that's the kind of time we live in. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The congresswoman was also sent here by the voters, so we are forced to tolerate what she says, whether we agree with her or not. However, we are not going to do what the congresswoman is asking us to tell journalists what they can and cannot write. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition. Márton Gyöngyösi: This is steep! I'm steep!]] We've never done this before, and we're not gonna do it again. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why you should be friends with this, so you should be friends with reading in the papers that you don't like. As for the Italians, I would like to remind you of two things. First of all, I think it is important that Mr Salvini is the Deputy Prime Minister of the Italian Government, who deserves respect, both personally and for the Italian people, given that he was elected by the Italian people. That's why I can't accept that voice that you're allowed to make against him. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Szabó Timea: Which one?!]] The other thing I think is important, and I suggest that we appreciate the Italians a little bit more, that Hungary was the country that proved that the migrant invasion could be stopped on land, and that Deputy Prime Minister Salvini was the man who proved that the migrant invasion could be stopped at sea. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Not exactly!]] And for that, we owe him thanks and recognition. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] As for our international orientation in the world of party politics, which is not, by the way, a matter of state, I should probably not be dealing with it here, but I can tell you that Hungarian voters have sent us into international politics with two mandates and tasks: one is to stop immigration and create an anti-immigration Europe, and the other is to protect Christian culture in Europe. We will always conspire with parties that are willing and able to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.10]]
u2019-03-18-174	Thank you very much. For a one-minute rejoinder, I'll give the word to the head of the faction. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-175	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, what you said about the press is interesting. The country report of the United States of America on Hungary has just come out, and 85 percent of the Hungarian press is in your hands. Trump's not our friend, he's your friend, so it's interesting that he says the same thing. As for Salvini, it is interesting that Prime Minister has so much respect for him, because Salvini himself demands that refugees be distributed in Europe, come to Hungary as well. You can talk to each other about that. [[Viktor Orbán intervenes.]] That's how it is now. But not only did Salvini say that, but also that he and Le Pen, with whom you have great friendship, that less EU funds should be given to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, including Hungary, in the future. Then decide now that you are on the side of the Hungarian people, or on the side of the European parties on the far right, which are anti-Hungarian and with which you have a terrible friendship. Indeed, you have been authorized by the Hungarian people, but not to give the country to Putin and the Russian interests. You didn't say a word to me, Prime Minister, about what the Russian secret service is doing here with your full agreement and support.
u2019-03-18-176	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-03-18-177	It is either a temporal or content misunderstanding, because a friend of the Soviets and Russians should not be on the civilian side, but on the other side. [[Bence of Turdai: When are you a civilian?]] So if you want to learn more about Russian secret services, [[Szabó Timea: I don't want to!]] Then don't ask me questions. [[Szabó Timea: I want the answer!]] but to those with whom he is now in league. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] I can tell you that Hungary will continue to stand up for its rights in the next period. There will be debates in the European Union. I wish the parties you call the far right would like to shape the European budget in a way that gives them more money and less money in Central Europe, but the problem is much bigger than that. The parties belonging to the Socialist International and part of the People's Party would also like to transform the budget of the European Union, and we must do serious work to protect Hungary's national interests there. [[Tibor Bana intervenes.]] I ask you to be kind through your own contacts at the Liberal International and the Socialist International, and we in the European People's Party will do everything possible to win Central Europe. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] As far as EU issues are concerned, I can tell you that Hungary will continue to stand up for its own rights in the next period. There will be debates in the European Union. I wish the parties you call the far right would like to shape the European budget in a way that gives them more money and less money in Central Europe, but the problem is much bigger than that. The parties belonging to the Socialist International and part of the People's Party would also like to transform the budget of the European Union, and we must do serious work to protect Hungary's national interests there. (Tibor Bana intervenes. ) I ask you to be kind through your own contacts at the Liberal International and the Socialist International, and we in the European People's Party will do everything in order to win Central Europe (Szabó Timea intervenes). the budgetary debate ahead of us. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties. )
u2019-03-18-178	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, MEP László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz [[Moraj from the benches of opposition parties. Crying from the benches of Jobbik: Clown!]] You want to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: how long will the Hungarian people face the will of the pro-immigration left? It's an address. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true!]] Mr László Böröcz has the floor. [[Szabó Timea: Why doesn't the Prime Minister answer that? Intercom from the opposition benches: Again! Gergely Harvester's intervention.]]
u2019-03-18-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister,
u2019-03-18-180	Congressman Harvester!
u2019-03-18-181	Dear Minister, From 2015 onwards, Europe and our country are under enormous migratory pressure. In the current situation, there are two alternatives. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't worry so much.]] One is that the population of immigrants with different cultures will be admitted to the Western European sample. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't worry. It's starting to shake!]] The number of violent crimes, abuse of women and incidents motivated by anti-Semitism and terrorist attacks is significantly increasing in countries. On the other hand, there is another way, represented by the Government of Hungary and the parties behind it. We believe in nation states, the preservation of Christian culture, traditional family values, and the inalienable right to decide who we want to live with. Unfortunately, there are parties in Hungary that do not hear or even go directly against the will expressed by the Hungarian people. Last Wednesday, the European Parliament adopted a new proposal to support immigration by financing the resettlement of migrants from the asylum and migration funds. As usual, representatives of the left-wing Hungarian parties, MSZP, DK, LMP and Dialogue were once again on the side of migration, supporting the adoption of pro-immigration proposals with their votes. The opposition has thus made it clear once again that it is giving all the support to make Europe an immigrant continent and Hungary an immigrant country. In view of what has been said, I respectfully ask Minister how far the Hungarian people will go against the pro-immigration left. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Szabó Timea: Bravo, bravo! György Szilágyi: Does the left answer? Noise.]]
u2019-03-18-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. [[Constant interruptions, noise on the opposition side.]]
u2019-03-18-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There is no doubt that the question is justified in a number of ways. And that's what you can argue about. [[Szabó Timea: It is very offensive that the Prime Minister does not answer!]] While it is possible to argue why I am answering it, let us be honest that even though the Hungarian left has had countless opportunities to respond, they have not yet been able to respond in recent years. In this respect, therefore, it is also justified that the Member is interested in me. If we look at the political debates, we see that in addition to immigration, [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] in recent weeks, we have also heard a lot about how to create European united states, how this is inevitable [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Clown, take notes!]] The fact that there is no longer a need for nations, the states must be dismantled, and integration within the European Union should be sought as closely as possible. This is always represented and said by the same people, who, by the way, were on the side of immigration and who talked about the admissibility of compulsory quotas and who thought that building a fence and protecting the external border was not a fundamental condition of state existence, but a crime against inhumane, don't give, God, humanity. We therefore see that in this debate, the Hungarian Government took a firm position as early as 2015 at the beginning of the migration crisis, and we also made it clear in all international relations that there is no deal for us in immigration policy, we cannot negotiate with the pro-immigration parties, and Hungary has taken a clear position on immigration several times, including in a referendum. To the specific question of how far the Hungarian people will go against the pro-immigration left, I can say that it has been going against it for a long time, and there is no sign that this will not continue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Szabó Timea: It was amazing! It's amazing.]]
u2019-03-18-184	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr László Böröcz is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Szabó Timea: Request a tough rejoinder! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Hard!]]
u2019-03-18-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The truth is that there are probably two possible ways for the left to pursue such a policy on immigration. [[Szabó Timea:]] One is that they insist on socialisation patterns 30 years ago, and they are looking for adjustment points not in Hungary, but abroad. [[Szabó Timea: And we'll call off Putin! Yeah, that's not us.]] The other possible version follows from the quality of today's parliamentary yellings that this is also a possible way that the pro-immigration left is actually [[Tibor Bana: Push this through the general assembly of Szombathely!]] follow the ideas and things of European left-wing politicians for their own good. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Sit down, Number One! It's constant noise.]] because they don't have a self-esteem. [[Szabó Timea: What is the end of the sentence?]] and not with independent ideas about the future of Europe and Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: What is the question? Márton Gyöngyösi: Minister will finish! Intercom from the opposition benches: Continue where you left off.]]
u2019-03-18-186	Thank you very much. Before I speak to Minister, Madam Head of the Szabó Timea Group, I warn you that your responsibility is particularly important because you are the leader of the faction. [[Szabó Timea: I'm just rooting!]] The cooperation of these few five people, I think, would require a much, much more responsible attitude on your part. [[Szabó Timea: That's why I have to cheer even louder!]] I really need you to stop yelling at me. Mr. Secretary, please. [[Szabó Timea: That's how hard it is for instants!]]
u2019-03-18-187	I will wait for the congresswoman to answer the question, and now that she is finished, I agree with Congressman on that. [[An uproar from the opposition benches. Szabó Timea applauds. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: And what did he say? Dr. Pál Völner: Listen!]] that, in fact, throughout Europe, the left sees more and more voters in the process of immigration. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Who would have thought? It's constant noise.]] He would like to get more and more voters with this process, as we know that in these countries, a significant proportion of immigrants who have acquired citizenship support left-wing, left-wing, left-wing parties. We consider it particularly important that the Hungarian government is a Christian democratic government, because Christian democracy has always been thinking in nations. And if we think in nations, then the nations have always rejected mass immigration, integration that has become impossible. This is what the Hungarian government will do and will do as long as it is given by the current governing parties. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[17.20]]
u2019-03-18-188	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Mr. Márton Gyöngyösi, Leader of the Group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, you may remember that it was just ten years ago that Fidesz campaigned for the European Parliament election campaign in 2009 for the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and that is perhaps understandable, because this was exactly a year after you voted, together with Ferenc Gyurcsány, unread, on the Lisbon Treaty which outlined the federal vision of the United States of Europe. Ferenc Gyurcsány's excuse is that, as we have heard here, they represent what I disagree with, but you may have to explain what has changed since then. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why were you involved with them? What's all this confusion? The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr Prime Minister, I wonder what has changed since then, why you no longer support the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Is sovereignty an excuse for you? After all, in Hungary it is your synonyms, friends and relatives who are the synonyms of corruption, and they are the ones who steal most of the money in Hungary today, acting as your stooge: Lőrinc Mészáros, your friend, stróman, gas mechanic; István Garancsi; István Tiborcz, your son-in-law. They are all inviolable, since you and Péter Polt, the Hungarian Attorney General, protect them from the investigation and prosecution. The case of Elios Zrt. is here, Mr. Prime Minister, where OLAF has prosecuted, but the prosecution has not initiated an investigation in the absence of a criminal offence, even though the suspicion of cartelisation, suspicion of overinvoicing, suspicion of a personal merger is high. Mr. Prime Minister, When will you be ready to finally fight a real conflict in Brussels, in addition to self-serving conflicts, for example in the case of the eradication of corruption? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-18-190	Thank you. I'm giving the floor to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-03-18-191	Thank you, Mr. President. The congressman asks me how credible the government's policy is. If I wanted to answer the question briefly, I would just say that it seems to be credible, even more credible, because Hungary has just been rated by credit rating agencies. However, a much more exciting question is whether it is right for you and your party to ask the question of credibility. What I remember is that you guys were burning an EU flag a while back. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right! That's right.]] in their statutes, Jobbik is moving Hungary out of the European Union [[Intercoms from Jobbik: We never wrote anything like this in it! That's a lie! He's lying! We're used to it! The president's ringing the bell.]] And you personally wanted to list the Jewish representatives. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Here in Parliament!]] Compared to this, you're working with the socialists and the DKs today, their allies, they're allies with them. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Treaty of Lisbon!]] who used rubber bullets and assault police against people; by the way, they destroyed the Hungarian economy and millions of Hungarians. [[Tibor Bana: You're doing it too!]] So I'm just gonna answer you one question: do you think your question of credibility can be taken seriously? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-192	For a one-minute rejoinder, I'll give the floor to the leader of the faction. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-193	Prime Minister, we should not be looking at the ratings of credit rating agencies, but at the corruption indexes in which Hungary is the last, in the European Union it is Bulgaria that is in a worse position and in the world rankings with Senegal. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Congratulation from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] We're on the same level, a little bit better than Jamaica or Oman. So I recommend these statistics to your attention, which are also worth browsing. The situation in Hungary has never been too bright in terms of corruption. There were times when the public money was stolen in nocical boxes during the period of social-liberal governments, but politicians were led on a chain of prisoners: János Zuschlag, György Hunvald or Miklós Hagyó. Unfortunately, that cannot be said for you at all, as Lőrinc Mészáros spends 100 billion forints of public money in a year. Prime Minister, if you do not support the European Public Prosecutor's Office, there is a suspicion that you are the mob leader in this country and Péter Polt is the consigliere of the Mafia family. I'm waiting for your answer. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-18-194	The Prime Minister has the floor for a one-minute answer.
u2019-03-18-195	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd be careful to read the lists, because I've read a list of you being the seventh anti-Semitic man in the world, which I find to be an exaggeration. [[Defiance, applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] So I suggest we choose what lists we're reading. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] and Mrs Szabó Timea also commented on the debates between us earlier, just what conditions there are in relation to credibility, because that was the question over there, and I am now recalling what Szabó Timea said. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: I remember him! Don't bother.]] Congresswoman in 2012. I quote: the cooperation with the open Jewishization of Márton Gyöngyösi and the citizenship list of the predecessor of Novák has so far taken place. The point came when I agreed that even if it was up to one vote, I wouldn't cooperate with them. Congratulations to both of you. [[Intercom from the ruling parties: Bravo! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-03-18-196	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, [[Márton Gyöngyösi: I just didn't get an answer to the question!]] Mr. Gyöngyösi Group leader, you had the floor, now it's not there. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: But was that an answer, Mr President?]] Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, would like to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Nothing is expensive for the opposition in order to achieve an unconventional cooperation? It's an address. [[Gergely Arató: Does the Minister of Justice belong to the opposition?]] The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, An uncontroversial hatred against the national Christian Democratic Government and the ruling parties led to the intention of the opposition to join forces even before the parliamentary elections, where, openly, through their secret backseat deals concluded in the dark. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Were you there?]] Their voters turned their backs on the extreme, the far right and the liberal parties, to satisfy the hunger for power. One of the better scandals before the elections was linked to this unconventional cooperation: a public recording shows that Gergely Farkas, the candidate for Parliament of Jobbik and then the president of the youth department offered money to his LMP rival in order to withdraw from the Kiskunhalas district. According to the recording, Farkas wanted to bribe the LMP Midi Melania with a sum of HUF 600,000. This recording raises suspicions that a crime against the electoral order has been committed [[Tibor Bana: Are you talking about election fraud? Sit down.]] Therefore, the prosecutor's office has requested the suspension of the immunity of the better Member, which Parliament has voted today. This scandal also proves that opposition parties are not expensive to gain power, if they have to, to join forces with the devil's grandmother, or to try for money if they have to. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] to buy the collaboration. The serious opposition failure of the April elections has also shown that voters do not ask for an unconventional opposition alliance. Unfortunately, the opposition parties did not listen to the voters: at the 15th March ceremony, the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány and the anti-Semite, the sword-slapper, with rubber bullets, were once again swinging side by side. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] The banners of Jobbik, who present politicians with a great deal of expression, are also the flags of Jobbik. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] In view of what has been said, is there nothing expensive for the opposition in order to achieve an unconventional cooperation? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-18-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the statement of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, Gergely Farkas, registered in the 5th Parliamentary Constituencies of Bács-Kiskun County, at the elections to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Jobbik nominating organisation, offered to his fellow candidate for representative in the colours of Politics in the course of the discussion with him. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Mr President! What kind of genre is that? What kind of genre is that?]] the payment of the cost of 600 thousand HUF spent on the campaign if it withdraws from the election. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell. Gergely Harvesto: Is this the verdict?]] The offer was rejected by the candidate. The D.A.'s view is that a better politician's act is capable of establishing a crime against the electoral order. [[17 .30]] Therefore, the interrogation of the Member of Parliament as a suspect is justified, which forced the House to suspend its immunity today. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is a state of law, where the laws rule. [[Uproar, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks, including Márton Gyöngyösi: Oh, no! The dome's gonna fall on you! The president's ringing the bell.]] The Act on Election Procedure lays down as a basic principle the preservation of the purity of elections and the exercise of good faith and proper law. I would like to emphasise that everyone in Hungary must comply No one can be the exception, not even the better politicians. I am convinced that the people working in the judiciary are doing their job with the necessary expertise, so the truth about Gergely Farkas will soon be revealed. In many cases of corruption, Jobbik is likely to experience the darkest days of many cases, however, abused by the trust of his voters, both moral and legal consequences of the misuse of financial support have been borne by them, not even a hundred million forints of party sympathizers have been spent on what has been combined. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] It was used in the election campaign. Let's hope they didn't buy any more votes or steps back on it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-200	It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-18-201	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Jobbik's demise can also be seen from the fact that the party spokespersons tried to protect Gergely Farkas in all manner of ways, to bludgeon this serious matter. What we see is that from around Jobbik's house, various scandalous cases occur day by day, usually involving attacks on someone because of their origin or religion in these scandalous cases. We must say that in the fight against anti-Semitism, only the Fidesz-KDNP remained on the field. [[Uproar, clarity, and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks, including: Is this the SZDSZ now or is it the Fidesz?]] The Balliberal side assists Jobbik's affairs, the Balliberal side protects Jobbik's dirty affairs, and the Balliberal side stands behind Jobbik. That is why the bizarre coalition of eye-shooters and small-scales was established. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Márton Gyöngyösi: I saw that Rogán was anxious to hear the panel written in the Ministry, but it was said.]]
u2019-03-18-202	For a one-minute rejoinder, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Intercom from Jobbik's ranks: Thieves!]]
u2019-03-18-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the case has a sad lesson, as the Prime Minister has just quoted the words of Congresswoman Szabó Timea, and yet these blocks celebrated together on 15 March. In the same way, the LMP, which could be injured in this case, because he was approached in this matter, and at that time they were still very far removed from this story, chose the same joint celebration, even though they did not account for the fact that the Member who wanted to withdraw the other party with such manipulations had a place in the benches of Parliament, had a place in the coalition that they now represent together. It shows that power and money are more important to them than anything else. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Crying out of Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2019-03-18-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Márton Gyöngyösi's constant interventions, including: What kind of genre is this?]] Mr. Director, you have to ask for a word, but in this genre it is no longer possible. [[Uproar and intervention from Jobbik's ranks, including Márton Gyöngyösi: But what kind of genre is this?]] Mr. Team Leader, I'm warning you. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Acknowledged.]] If you continue this behavior, I will be forced to act in accordance with the house rules, against the leader of the faction for the first time. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: But the Constitution states that this is not a genre in parliament.]] Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How can this be done?" It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, on 10 March in Poland, you said the following at the NATO ceremony, and I quote: "In 70 years of NATO existence, you have become the most successful and powerful military alliance in history. We agree on that so far. The strongest member and leader of this alliance is the United States. This alliance has guaranteed the security of Hungary over the last thirty years, and at least half of this alliance is Russia. I suppose we can agree on that, Prime Minister. Compared to this, Fidesz's EP list leader, László Trócsányi, has recently issued two Russian arms dealers to Russia, with one of the United States agencies catching these two arms dealers in Budapest, doing nothing less than selling weapons to Mexican cartels here in Budapest. For those Mexican cartels, you know, Prime Minister, who are child and mass murderers, killing civilians in the order of tens of thousands a year, and for which Trump, among other things, tries the wall, because there are tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of Mexicans fleeing from them. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai will take his place in the notary seat.]] Then it came before Parliament and the government proposed that the International Investment Bank should be granted full diplomatic immunity. At least, this bank is clearly referred to as a cover for the secret service by the NATO Alliance countries. Whether that's true or not, we don't know yet, but I think it's a tell. My question to the Prime Minister is whether László Trócsányi has decided on this extradition on his own, because we know that the judge, the prosecutor, did not expressly recommend that he be released to Russia, so that is what the Minister of Justice or you have ordered him to do. The other, I ask you, is that you are absolutely serious, Prime Minister, that you are proposing diplomatic immunity to the son of Nikolai Kosov, former head of the KGB in Budapest. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] on behalf of the Hungarian government, will you vote here with the Fidesz fraction, while you're communisting us? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-18-206	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-03-18-207	I try to answer fair questions here, but it's not always possible. [[Intervention from the opposition benches: That is not true!]] That's why I follow the rule of God, that's how you make your vows. That is why I ask: do I understand that once again, the socialists accuse the civil side of serving the Russians? [[Crying from the opposition benches, including: Where is the civilian side! Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Gentlemen, are you forgetting the fact that the leaders, servants and governors of the Soviet invaders have been you for 45 years? Is that fact forgotten, gentlemen? [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! Uproar, interrogations on the opposition side, including Márton Gyöngyösi: There are more in the benches of Fidesz.]] It's been a long time, I wouldn't even... [[Constant interrogations from both sides. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's been a long time, and I wouldn't be upset if you didn't provoke us. As far as the specifics are concerned, Hungary does not need to be protected from sliding anywhere, as you say. The situation is that Hungary is part of the Western federal system, is a member of the European Union and is a member of NATO. Moreover, he is not only a member, but the Hungarian voters decided by referendum on both issues, and therefore no one is in a position to replace it. On the specific issue, although Minister Trocsányi has already given you an answer here. [[Interview from Fidesz: That's right. They forgot.]] It seems that the court has decided that these suspects can be released in both directions, including Russia and America. So we waited for the court's decision on this. They were Russian citizens, so we released them to the Russians. If they had been Americans, we would have sold them to the Americans, even if the Americans had not made a positive decision on several extradition cases since 2005. Reciprocation is completely lacking. This has nothing to do with NATO, it's a matter of reciprocity. In return, I would also like to say a few words about the international bank. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-208	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Harangozó. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister, you always forget that when you're 40 and five years old, let's say to me, there must be a huge difference between you and me that you were the Secretary of State, and I didn't. [[A statement from the Fidesz: You're late.]] I did not have a party secretary in my family, Prime Minister, so these are questions, if we raise the question of credibility, Prime Minister, then I am asking you, or I am telling you that I do not think you should push this. You also know for sure about the specific case, Prime Minister, that the prosecutor's explicit request was not to issue it to Russia, but I think it doesn't matter. It is clear, Prime Minister, that what has happened here is a betrayal of our NATO fraternity system. And if you look at it that way, it also means betraying the alliance guaranteeing the safety of Hungarian people. I think that Hungarian people really have a right to know what Fidesz is up to, and at least what we are getting out of it, Prime Minister, is that it is not for the protection of Christian democracy and not for the reform of Europe, but for something else. Thank you for listening.
u2019-03-18-210	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go. [[17.40]]
u2019-03-18-211	Now, in the absence of a minute of factual errors and lies, or that I have only one minute, I am ignoring it, but I would like to make it clear that in extradition cases we have not or will not enforce any NATO viewpoints. There is only reciprocity in issues of release. Whoever gives us what we want, we'll give it to whoever he wants. Otherwise, it doesn't work, even when it comes to the most powerful military power in the world. As far as the International Investment Bank is concerned, I would like to tell you that in this bank there are five NATO countries, five Central European countries, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Romania, Slovakia and Hungary, and our five ownership rates exceed 50 percent and far beyond Russia. It's a Central European bank. I advise you not to cast yourself in the shadows next time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-212	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. That concludes the immediate questions. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm asked for the floor on a case-by-case basis. Although his name has not been mentioned in this recent period or anything, I look forward to your point of order. [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]]
u2019-03-18-213	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked for the floor in order of business because there was no reason to withdraw the word, Mr President, and that is why I am speaking in order of business, and then I will at least take the opportunity to say that I hope, after the final judgments, that, when you see all the apologies, the same Members in this Chamber will also apologize to me. That's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-18-214	Thank you very much. The reason I took the floor, Congresswoman, is because you asked for a word in personal involvement, we used to be past a minute, and you moved on to some other genre, and this other genre wasn't about personal involvement. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Now I'm ordering a two-minute technical break, and we'll continue our work from there. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/4668 amendment of Act L of 2018 on Hungary's Central Budget for 2019 to support the medicine developed for the treatment of SMA disease. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Budgets. First, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Rig Lajos, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-215	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Members, I regret that very few of the government representatives remain, because they have the option of making a decision, because it is a very rare disease, but the more serious it is that we have been approached to try and provide some help to these patients. What is this disease? Very few people know that the SMA is a spinal cord-generated muscular dystrophy, due to a gene defect, so to speak, it is not able to infiltrate this protein, and there is a continuous loss of muscles. For them until 2016, there was no therapy, no treatment, there was a hopeless future, and then in 2016 a breakthrough came to the United States of America, and they developed a drug that, although it does not cure the disease, prevents the disease from moving forward, and can maintain it at a certain level. Then, in 2017, this medicine is already available in several Member States of the European Union and, as several Member States, a number of types of financing methods have been put in place. In the United States, for example, not all types of money are fully funded in one state, but have been made free in several EU Member States. Allow me to list a few of these: Germany, Austria, Belgium, Italy, Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal, Scotland, and among them, Romania has recently taken the steps to fully finance this treatment at all ages and in each disease type. There are 120 registered SMA patients in Hungary today, 38 of which receive treatment, and 30 are on the waiting list. I think that the budget line of 4 billion is not a big sum, because if you look at the fact that the government gave nearly 5 billion forints to Uganda recently, the SMA patients in Hungary would also deserve 4 billion. There is very little information available to you. In the last week, the parents of two children with SMA came to me and asked me for my help to get their message to you, and please listen to it, because it's heartbreaking. And I also said at the committee meeting that this should be not primarily a financing vote, but a vote of conscience. One of the parents is:, We submitted the request to Spinraza for more than a month, and still nothing. Levi's 15 months old. He's getting worse. If I hang up, he's just lying there. So far, he could crawl, turn to his stomach, turn to his side, raise his head on his belly. Unfortunately, they're all gone for the day. The parent's name is Samler Victoria. Another: My child, Narciss, was rejected last year by NEAK. He'll be on a ventilator in early April. He's 12. They gave up on him, too. Thank you for keeping us going, and at least you're trying. With all due respect, Lisztes Adrienn. These are the situations of life, honourable Members. Be happy, or put your hands together, that your family doesn't have one. Although if there were, this treatment would have been free for every patient by now. But if nothing else, I beg you, just keep in mind that Romania has also made this treatment free! I think that the answer that Tímea received from NEAK is nothing, take it well, because after a great rush, after a year and a half, the NEAK managed to sweat out a letter of reply that we didn't know anything about. [[17.50]] However, we put a letter on your table today before the plenary session, which Timea has written and signed, and the president of the SMA Association has also signed. Allow me to read this before the end of five minutes, because this letter may have been thrown out. Mr. Madam-Lord, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, How are you feeling? I hope it's okay. Can you move your hands, breathe properly? And you think he's gonna do it again tomorrow? I'm glad. Unfortunately, we who live with SMA can't be sure of that at all. Spinal cord muscle atrophy takes away our abilities from day to day. There's a treatment that could stop the deterioration that could help us, all the patients involved. This will also be discussed in today's plenary session. Please think about your decision if you had to fear that tomorrow you wouldn't have the strength to vote. How are you feeling? I hope you're still okay. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please, fellow Members, look deep into your souls. And I have one request: do not look at the political views, not the economic figures, although if you look at them, I think that this could be voted to the full, because if you look at the data of the HCSO, you are well above the indicators. This $4 billion item is not as big as giving Uganda $5 billion. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-18-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. In writing, Imre László, representing DK, applied. I'll give him the floor first. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The development of the last thirty years of medicine has been serious problems and problems, not in terms of healing and healing, of course, but in terms of funding. However, there is a point where under no circumstances can it be considered what we do. This is human life, including the lives of innocent little children. And that's what we're talking about here. Now that gene therapy has opened up the possibility of actual healing and healing, it is difficult, and it is impossible for those affected to accept selection, the current decision between life and death. Those who have children, grandchildren, look into the eyes of these little children with genuine faith and hope, and think that today the system condemns many of these innocent little ones to death. You think that's okay? Do we have to take away the last hope from them and their parents? Let us not forget that gene therapy that is being applied today has also opened the way for the final solution. I'd like to remind you that anyone who buys time gets a life. Let me conclude, therefore, by saying that the pro-government majority of the Committee on Budgets, who have prevented this from going forward by voting, have demonstrated an immeasurable cynicism, arrogance and a lack of respect for human life. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2019-03-18-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the LMP, Mr Péter Ungár is next. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-219	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to take a different approach. If we look at this at systemic level, of course, it can always be suggested that social security will not always be able to finance the latest treatments for social security, because medicine is developing very quickly, and these are often very expensive things. But, as my better fellow Member has already said, the EU standard is the financing of these treatments. So you're not looking at something that would be incredibly novel or surprising. This is financed by social security in several EU countries and, as has already been mentioned today, in Russia. If we look at this issue without a soul, then the fact is that there are several parents here who have worked their whole lives, paid the social security contributions properly, and then cannot receive the basic care necessary for the life of their child because you are no longer introducing this European standard. And let us be honest here with the empty seats that you are not introducing them because you have come up with something for some reason, or that it would not be economically profitable, which is basic in fact budget terms, but because it is an opposition proposal. If this hadn't come in as an opposition proposal, you would have accepted this. The simple fact is that you are so wrapped up in party policy logic, and you think that only a man of good quality can be a fidesz person, that you can't even override a child's life. For you, the national unity means nothing any more, it means nothing if it can provide concrete help to these people, and therefore they will give you 4 billion forints. There really is no argument, and it can be seen from the fact that they don't stand up or argue against it, they simply keep it quiet because the only thing that matters to you is Fidesz. Thank you.
u2019-03-18-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the MSZP, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély spoke. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is also particularly outrageous that Bence Rétvári and all the other relevant State Secretarys will take him on behalf of the governing party and leave the Chamber. You know, when we discuss the budget, we keep running into trying to put the professional arguments behind the numbers, but you pro-government politicians always say that there are people behind the numbers. Now, if we're talking about this problem, believe me, I don't give a damn if it costs $4 billion or $20. Do you know why? Because at the end of the year, in recent years, we have been constantly finding that the government has allocated hundreds of billions of forints from the reserve fund, from remnants to such grants, to the church hundreds or tens of billions of forints. But if we come back here and talk about 4-5 billion forints, which they don't give to sick kids, I wouldn't even spend half a stadium. Half a stadium! For you, half a goddamn stadium is worth more than sick kids! You can say that: you don't care. What my fellow Member has said before me, you will submit it. If you have so much trouble with the opposition proposal, and we keep running into it, so we can submit it, I beg you. We're talking 4 billion forints, half a stadium. Any one of us will give up three half stadiums or even 20, just have a little humanity in you and say that tomorrow, Fidesz... don't even Fidesz, my fellow Members of the KDNP. It has been said several times today that they are Christian values. Well, don't ever say that word again in plenary if you can't do that. Do it, my fellow Members, and believe me, we will rightly vote for it. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-18-222	Thank you very much. I would just like to inform the Congresswoman that at the moment there are three State Secretarys in the Chamber four State Secretarys. Thank you very much. Mr László György Lukács is next from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-03-18-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Although there is only one sitting against us and he is not in charge of health care, let me say that, although many have done so before me, my fellow Member, Mr Rig, has made a motion. My fellow Member Rig asks for nothing but the God-given right that these people who are involved, and especially children, may live. Who are we to take that right away from them? We can ask. They want you to do that, and they're asking you to do it, and we're asking the fidesz majority, because we know that without them, we won't be able to do it, so that we don't dominate the cost-efficiency aspects right now. We often pursue an unattainable idea by taking into account cost-efficiency considerations, whose lives can and cannot be saved. That's not the question right now. Now the question is, what do we want to spend it on? We want to spend 20 billion forints on plans that no one has foreseen, or we ask people to be humane, for example. And yes, he could be a humane former Minister, Sándor Potter, and he could sit in and respond to what he thinks about the fate of people suffering from these rare diseases. [[Sándor Fazekas intervenes.]] [[18.00]] Or we're asking you to press the button, the former Minister, so rarely we hear your voice, at least now you can hear it. He's spoken very little lately, and we don't know for what reason. But for once, let's be family fathers, family mothers. For once, let's think about how we can give you this 4 billion forints, because we have to give it to you. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Let us put ourselves in these families' own place and see what they need. This is what my fellow Member Rig is asking you to support. Don't support Lorrinc Mészáros, don't give the government the authority to take the public money out of various regulations, to outsource it to himself, but to give it to the families who really need it. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a tiny slice of what we can spend, and it's really worth spending. Please support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-18-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to the author in two minutes, Congressman Rig Lajos.
u2019-03-18-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know if Congressman Potter wants to speak because he yelled at me all the time. I think that by referring to the importance and authority of the subject, Mr President, you should press a button and try to state the arguments you have yelled at here. It's not about that, believe me. I'm guessing you still have some humanity in you. But to get back to the subject, because at night, patients are watching it, there's no time. For them one day is one day to survive. Two days, that's two days, that's a week, that's a week of survival, because we're talking about their respiratory muscles shutting down. And if you now urgently submit it to the next plenary session, which will be at the beginning of April, it will be the last plenary session by the end of May. There's two months of lauf again. They waited a year and a half, since in 2017 thousands of signatures were submitted to the EMMI to ensure that this medicine would be free in Hungary, as in Romania. That's what the members of the SMA Association were waiting for, and that's what the SMA patients were waiting for. They don't have time to wait, and not because they're impatient, but because they can stop breathing at any time because of the paralysis of the respiratory muscles. They say there's gonna be another treatment. Indeed, there are two kinds of drugs. Roche is developing a medicine that can be taken orally, and my colleague said that there is a new gene therapy. But the medicine that can be taken by mouth has one condition that you have been treated with Spinraza. Those 38 patients did not benefit from this, so this loophole closed. In hindsight, but not least, I would like to thank you for your support, but unfortunately, I am ashamed of the fact that you do not even have your opinion. Mr President, there may be four State Secretarys in here, but none of them have spoken. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-18-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have a motion from the LMP Group. The LMP called for the Parliament to decide on the T/4783 on the holding of positions requiring priority public confidence. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Márta Demeter LMP, within a five-minute timeframe.
u2019-03-18-227	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A very important element of the purity of politics and public life is the creation of a regulation that is capable of curbing illegal influence, and it is also important that it is able to offer a soothing solution to the public that certain functions requiring public confidence cannot be filled with a certain time limit by persons associated with secret services. It is clear that I would like to remind you, for example, of the Nyírfa case, the Defend case and UD Zrt., because of various serious backspoken issues over the last two decades. in Hungarian society, there was the perception that some individuals had received information and personal influence that they could use to manipulate public life or its actors in their activities that they had been shut away from the public. To this end, in addition to fully exploring the past of state security, it is now clear that there is also a need to regulate the staff of national security services, which have been secretly cooperating with national security services since 1990, by assessing the lessons learned from the 28 years since the change of regime. Both domestic legislative practice and international examples show that it is an accepted practice for these persons to include a waiting period of different durations between the termination of the previous position and the acquisition of the post they intend to hold. According to our bill, in the period following 14 February 1990, a person belonging to the staff of national security services and a person working secretly with national security services can hold a high level of public trust only eight years after the termination of this relationship. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, of course, we propose that this rule should be followed by existing restrictions and existing conflict of interest rules. For example, the President of the Republic, the Member of Parliament, the Member of the Constitutional Court, the President of the National Court of Justice, the President of the Curia, the Member of the Government, the Attorney General, and our proposal also lists a number of outstanding public trust positions. So we expect the government to support our proposal to Parliament on this. It is very regrettable that in 2017, when this bill was first tabled, it was swept off the table by the pro-government people, and it was quite amazing that in recent years neither did they change their position that transparency was really necessary for Hungarian people, it is necessary to restore the confidence that has been broken in public life for Hungarian people. And indeed, when we talk about this, when we talk about trust and about giving Hungarian people guarantees about the cleanliness of public life, we should not only talk about exploring the past of state security, which is an extremely important issue, the publicity is essential, and we will be talking about this in the next proposal, but we should talk about what happened after the change of regime. Today, it has become necessary not to hold a high level of public confidence post-1990, i.e. after the regime change, to work with the secret services or to cooperate secretly with them. It is clear that Hungarian people need these guarantees. Of course, this bill is an element in a complex package of solutions. Although I think it would be good for me to start by saying that this bill will be voted in favour and, for some mysterious reason, will not prevent the implementation of this bill. But the next element should also be to talk about the issue of private companies, who and what influence they have, what information they have been flying around in certain private companies since the change of regime, and to use it either against public actors or against Hungarian people, or against certain businesses, for example. I think it's going to be a topic, and we're going to bring it to the House. However, we are now asking you to support the inclusion of our bill in a series of subjects.
u2019-03-18-228	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik.
u2019-03-18-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal put forward by the LMP faction is justified and allow me to refer a little back to the area around the regime change. We often say we have a stolen regime change. Yeah, we have a stolen regime change because the real regime change didn't happen. The people who served the former system continued their activities undisturbed after 90. I am convinced that, in government work, over the last 29 years, the blackmail potentials that arose before the change of regime and that have been activated after the change of regime have indeed created the need to present such proposals today. [[18.10]] This process started not in 90, much earlier, only in the last 30 years, the adult generation still suffers from that kind of contact net and system. I would like to quote Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's words in 1991. I would like to make it clear that socialist political thinking and practical policy are not from the devil for us. In the case of the Communists' successor party, the MSZP, in the past year and a half, things have evolved to the point that they may already become a credible social democratic party in the next electoral term. In order to ensure the stability of Hungarian democracy, we must overcome our bad memories. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, that's what the change of regime was all about. To maintain the previous system of relations, maintain the potential for extortion, and for practically 30-40 years, Hungarian citizens still have to experience the possibility of entering a government or high public position where people who have a lack of clarity and transparency in their past and present are not aware of what the secret services have been using and using their former relationship and blackmail potential since the regime change. I think that on this issue [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament and the government must be harsh. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-18-230	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to the author, Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2019-03-18-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that many of us consider this issue to be important, so that we can get legislation in the Hungarian Parliament as soon as possible that will reassure us on the one hand about the lack of clarity of the past and resolve this issue, and this is the period until the change of regime, and this is the current bill that we have talked about here, which is about the period after the change of regime. I would also like to emphasise here, and I would also like to ask the members of the opposition for their support, and thank them very much, and to agree with the gravity of the problem, to support this proposal, so that persons who have worked in the secret services after the regime change, whether in professional personnel or in secret cooperation with them, should not abuse this influence, use it with information, use it against the actors of public life, or use it to manipulate certain events against the Hungarian people, but must indeed pass a waiting period, which in this case is 8 years in this bill. This is, by the way, completely coherent with international examples. By adopting this proposal, I think we can take a huge step towards the purity of public life here in Hungary; and, for example, by adopting such a bill, it is possible to avoid any more happening, for example, in the Nyírfa case or in the Defend case or in the UD Zrt. case. Thank you.
u2019-03-18-232	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the transparency of the state security past and on the amendments to the law necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the possession of certain public offices. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First I give the floor to the author, in this case László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt Group leader, LMP.
u2019-03-18-233	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I find it extremely regrettable that, on my count, five pro-government representatives are present in the Parliament's courtroom during the debate on such a symbolic and important matter. That says a lot about their own commitment, by the way. This is a symbolic bill submitted by the LMP for the 19th time, and I would like to start with a symbolic case. On February 25, 1947, the Soviet authorities illegally took the former owner of Pécs-Patacsi, Béla Kovács. In 2000, the Parliament decided to commemorate the victims of communist dictatorships on this day, February 25, and that is the day that the commemorations have actually taken place since 2001. That's how it happened this year, too, not so long ago. I saw some photos on a social media site, where I found that the mayor of a county seat, a former informant named Péter Krakus, is currently a regent Fidesz mayor of one county seat, under the alias III/II. The person working for the class placed a wreath in an infinitely cynical manner on this day. I think this case tells us everything about the total impairment of Fidesz, a party once defining itself as an anti-communist. [[Dóra Dúró: Shame!]] On this day the LMP commemorated the victims of communist dictatorships, we placed a wreath at the statue of Béla Kovács, and for the 19th time we presented our bill on the discovery of the state security past. We have done this because, since the change of regime, there has not been a reassuring solution for getting to know party state documents. We couldn't know how former Communist state security workers had tangled the regime change parties. And this serious omission is an abuse of the memory of the victims. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, you, a two-thirds majority, made a commitment, gave yourself a year and a half to submit a bill on this. They missed that. In 2011, András Schiffer, then leader of the LMP, submitted a proposal of his own. This proposal has been voted out by you without any substantive debate or amendments, and has not been allowed to be included in the series. Subsequently, LMP has submitted this proposal eighteen times, this is the nineteenth time, and you have all made it impossible to negotiate this substance without submitting an alternative proposal. Similarly, the current proposal of the LMP for previous years aims to ensure that data of persons cooperating with state security can be made public, and that the Internet publication can be kept up-to-date. It is very important that a report on those who have been exercising public authority since the change of regime is drawn up and made public. It is also an extremely important step to ban former actors of communist state security from specific positions, in the case of certain posts, I am thinking of the post of head of state, the post of prime minister, the parliamentary representatives, the position of secretary of state, the position of mayor, and the other, and other, and symbolic steps, so that former agents should not be able to win lawsuits against researchers. This is a very important symbolic bill and a very long-standing omission. Tomorrow you will have the opportunity to take the first step. I would ask my fellow Members to support the inclusion of the bill on the subject tomorrow. Thank you.
u2019-03-18-234	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, A representative will now present the group's position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives. The thoughts and opinions of an independent Member may then take place. I give the floor first to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2019-03-18-235	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP has submitted this bill for the 19th time, and we say that we support it for the 19th time, because we have a debt, and you should consider whether we have debts against victims, for example. Does it have the right to know who those people in their environment were who destroyed, say, their families or destroyed their lives, who told on them, who made the family impossible, or who, let's say, their children couldn't learn any more and did any terrible things to them? Yeah, I do. Let's get on the victim's side for once. You don't have to keep protecting people who've done dirty things in the party state system. And after that, do we have any debt regarding whether these people, who were masters of life and death in a party-state dictatorship, who destroyed families, should still be in the lead position to this day, or should they live their lives in peace? Can we allow that in a normal country? I do not think so, and I think that those countries that were in a similar historical relationship to Hungary have already done so, and at least they have taken action in this regard. But it's understandable why you don't want publicity here, why you don't want it, why you don't want it to come out: because there are a lot of people in your ranks who are involved. And especially now, when they are preparing for another party-state dictatorship, these people can offer very good advice, because they have once been part of a machine that has kept this country in terror, and now in the one-party system that Viktor Orbán has dreamed of, these people could also give you very good advice on how to build a one-party dictatorship, how to deal with the opposition, how to deal with different families, how to destroy those who do not agree with you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[18.20]] Well, that's why they don't want to vote for this. And if the LMP is gonna file it for the 20th time because it's been submitted, we're gonna support it all the time. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-03-18-236	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK!
u2019-03-18-237	Dear House, Here at the moment, Prime Minister, he vehemently accused some of the opposition of its wonderful role in maintaining the dictatorship. Well, now is the time, dear fellow Members. Give an opinion on the dictatorship, give an opinion on the methods that were used at the time, and make it possible to disclose the data of those who, at the time, supported the maintenance of this system, helped it, not by democratic means, but by secret service and secret police. This is a case that has been poisoning Hungarian politics for decades, which has made it impossible for decades to account for the past fairly, and for those who have a moral responsibility, to ask what they have done and why they have done it. And this is a pathetic explanation that we were able to hear at a committee meeting when one or another of our fellow Members or members of the Government says that we do not know if those lists are authentic, and we do not even know if everyone is now on them. Dear fellow Members, Just the disclosure of data, the exploration, would allow the truth to come out in these matters. The full publicity, the knowledge of these data, would make it possible to discover the truth by historical, scientific methods. But it seems that's exactly what you don't want. Let me add one more important point, though. A few years after the change of regime, it was still possible to refer to it, although I do not think it was right that the country's current national security interests would require the protection of persons who would continue to serve in the secret services. But obviously 30 years after the change of regime [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's a ridiculous argument. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-03-18-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2019-03-18-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It has been said several times before me that the LMP has submitted this initiative for the 19th time. My guess is he's gonna do it a few more times over the next three years, because we know very well that as the Fidesz-KDNP majority has voted down eighteen times so far, that's the end of it. Yes, I would pick up where Gergő Arató stopped, that Viktor Orbán stands up and is constantly communisting. He makes it sound like he's almost ten years older than me, and we heard he was a secretary of the C.I.S. We couldn't have been, even if we wanted to, even if we wanted to, and this is happening to us all the time, because we're being communisted by senior government politicians, and they were members of this system, and we weren't. I think the way to end this is that once we talk about it, we talk about it, and we say, "Well, we're really going to uncover those things, we're going to see how many other political parties are sitting in that system, let's say, in Parliament, which political parties still represent the remains of this system, and it could be closed. All we're asking is that we actually end this once so that we can't say that one side or the other gets up and yells at the other that it was you and it was me, or it was him, because it's never gonna end. And then you can actually say, let's say to the Prime Minister, that he said that as an ex-SC Secretary to a politician who didn't have anything to do with this system. So every time the LMP, on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party, of course, I think it's important that we put an end to this once and be courageous, respected pro-government politicians [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and, for once, support this initiative! Thank you.
u2019-03-18-240	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker on behalf of the LMP is Mr Péter Ungár.
u2019-03-18-241	Thank you very much. Let's add, for the sake of historical loyalty, that Fidesz has not just started this policy, because it voted against the Zétényi-Takács bill of reparation in 91, which is what it continues now. To put it this way, it hurts you, but it's true, you're on Ivan Pető's side for the 19th time in the Konya-Pető debate. That's what you do. The fact is that Béla Biszku was able to die in bed and between pillows in Hungary is a significant part of your historical responsibility. [[György Szilágyi: That's right.]] Whatever you do in your media, whoever you're communisting with blood will never be forgiven by the Hungarian people, because there was a chance to settle the Stalinist total dictatorship, but you didn't live with it. They did not live because of acts and arguments, and they did not live because you named the Deputy Minister of State of the Kádár system, because you thought that you should represent the national unity by sluggishing on this issue. But speaking of sneering, let's talk about the Hungarian manifesto of sneering, the Committee of National Remembrance. You have created this institution in order to try to hide this question somewhere, where billions of public funds flow, write different books that no one reads, just themselves, and since then this institution has not been able to reveal who are the real sinners, who have been here today, who have turned their various political and secret service relationships into business relationships, and who have stolen the system change. You have not been able to account for this, and every time you vote no in committee, and you think that no one can see you, you know that Hungarian history sees you, and you will be judged for leaving Béla Biszku and the rest of the executioner to die in bed between pillows. Shame! [[György Szilágyi: György Mátsik... Applause from the benches of the LMP.]]
u2019-03-18-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Fidesz Group, I give the floor to Mr László Vigh.
u2019-03-18-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that I am so lucky that I had a fellow Member called Mary Wittner, and she told me that she was in prison for 13 years, and that she was sentenced to death four times. There was a lady in prison, and I'm talking about how important it is to spread the past, and she had a girlfriend, and she shared everything with her. He's been in prison with her for years. Then when Mary Wittner was released, when she could be researched, she started looking for the lady and everything that happened there, and it turned out that this lady had reported on her. The one she was very close to, the one she was friends with, the one they cried with, the one they laughed with for years in the cell, she reported it. Mary wasn't left alone by this thing, and she continued to look into how it was possible for someone she trusted so much, who was such a good friend, to report back to her, and it turned out, [[To Peter Ungár speaking with his fellow Member:]] I say to the Member, who, I see, is paying attention to the fact that he reported it because he was threatened that he would never see his two children again. [[Moraj and interventions from opposition representatives, including György Szilágyi: Stop making sacrifices from those who were snitches!]] The interesting thing is that you are with the company that says that we need to investigate the past, of whom Béla Biszku is one. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] I'm just telling you this, I just don't know what you're talking about when you're told to clear it up. [[Continued intervention from the benches of opposition representatives.]] I'd like to quote three thoughts from my pre-written paperwork. I think my position is that for those involved, all the data will be made public even now if anyone wants to go in and do research. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The fact-finding bodies are provided with data and research activities. So... [[The president's ringing again.]] Believe me, it's not as black and white as you think, completely... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2019-03-18-244	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, more than two minutes...
u2019-03-18-245	Excuse me, thank you very much. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Pathetic explanation!]]
u2019-03-18-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, in two minutes. [[18.30]]
u2019-03-18-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's an outrageous smear we've just heard from the congressman Fidesz. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] But by the way, the fact that almost thirty years after the so-called regime change, we are still here is the common sin of the Fidesz and MSZP governments. Each government had a responsibility, an opportunity to settle this issue, and it did not. Why? For they sat in the ranks of both, and they sat there to this day. Fidesz is not ashamed to make a III/II agent a minister, the MSZP is not ashamed to make a D-209 agent and Gyula Horn the Puffnut. What regime change are we talking about if the so-called post-system change governments have placed these people in the main public-law positions? Shame! So it is better that the Fidesz and the MSZP do not speak on this issue. [[László Vigh intervenes.]] The Member mentioned the Memorial Day of the victims of communism in the presentation. It should also be added that Fidesz did not bring this into Hungarian public life, but the Holocaust Memorial Day was presented by Fidesz, and thanks to a small farmer's amendment, the fact that the Memorial Day of the Victims of Communism is in Hungary. So it's not because of Fidesz or the MSZP. With regard to the specific proposal, a broadening of staff would be proposed by the MiHazák Movement, for example, to the leaders of the KISZ, and here I have to say that although the LMP has submitted this proposal nineteen times, and of course we will all support it once again, but I am now looking at this proposal quite differently, fellow Members, because it is not possible to pursue a credible policy that I want to ban someone from public life, but I also want to help power with one collaboration. These two cannot be accepted as credible policies at the same time. They have to decide whether they want to ban Ferenc Gyurcsány or join forces with him. [[A statement from the opposition: Both of them! Gergely Arató: You should decide whether you are in opposition or on government!]] Thank you for your attention.
u2019-03-18-248	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr László Keresztes Lóránt LMP Group leader.
u2019-03-18-249	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President, and thank you very much for your contribution to my opposition and also to my pro-government fellow Member. I would like to draw attention to the fact that tomorrow we will be voting on the inclusion of the bill in the series of articles, and that if the majority gives us the opportunity to do so, then it may indeed be possible to mature this proposal through debates, and it will also be possible to submit amendments to it. At the same time, we consider it extremely important, as in the last case, to introduce to the Hungarian voters who are among the Members of Parliament who are covering up the maintenance of former state security, so we will publish once again on a tableau the portrait and the names of the Members voting against the inclusion of the proposal in the series of subjects. I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal tomorrow, because democracy cannot be built on the secrets of a dictatorship. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-18-250	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Following a series of Commission reports to be submitted to the Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the free movement of persons, on the publication of the Protocol on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Agreement as a Contracting Party by reason of its accession to the European Union, and the debate on the draft amending proposal. The government referral is T/4072. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-03-18-251	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee held its meeting on 14 March 2019 and discussed the publication of the Protocol on the participation of the Republic of Croatia as a Contracting Party to the Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the free movement of persons, as a result of its accession to the European Union. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. By 26 votes in favour, with 4 abstentions. On 1 July 2013, the Republic of Croatia acceded to the European Union and, therefore, the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Swiss Confederation on the free movement of persons had to be supplemented by a Protocol to this effect, which was to become a Contracting Party to the Agreement by Croatia's accession to the Union. The original agreement was concluded on 21 June 1999 and entered into force on 1 June 2002. The Protocol in question entered into force for Hungary in international law on 1 January 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said above, I would like your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-252	Thank you, Congressman Ovadi. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[Hungarian Levente says no.]] The Secretary of State says not now. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to react. [[Hungarian Levente says no.]] No. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2007 Annex XVII on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/4481. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-03-18-253	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development as well as fisheries aid and other measures. T/4481. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. By 26 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear House, The primary objective of the proposal before us is to help the smooth functioning of the agricultural support relationship between the Hungarian Treasury and farmers, and to simplify and smoother implementation of certain procedural sub-tasks. In 2014, the Government of Hungary launched administrative reform measures aimed at cutting red tape, in which a review was carried out of the administrative procedural law in force earlier, as well as the law on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agri-rural development and fisheries subsidies and other measures. As a result of this work, we have a new current law on general administrative order. The new Code of Administrative Procedure, which will enter into force on 2 January 2018, was amended together with a set of sui generis procedures for agricultural, fisheries, forestry and game management aid and other measures, hereinafter referred to as "agricultural aids'. Dear Parliament, The main aim of the bill on the House's table is to ensure that the procedural standards imposed on agricultural support matters are consistent with the basic concept, principles and use of the Hungarian administrative code of procedure currently in force. In order to ensure a flexible and smooth operation between the Hungarian State Treasury as a paying agency acting as a support body for agriculture and rural development and customers, the legislator intends to resolve the problems that may result in a possible conflict of coherence with the proposal submitted. [[18.40]] In view of what has been said above, we can conclude that the amendments are indeed intended to serve to provide a more effective public service, to ensure the coherence of the legal system and to enforce useful and meaningful experience, and I therefore ask for your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-18-254	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Fazekas. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. The Agriculture Committee did not draft a rapporteur. MEP Zoltán Magyar applied for a comment, Jobbik.
u2019-03-18-255	Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I will not surprise you, since we have already said that we support this proposal. I do not want to waste my colleagues' time, but I would just like to underline once again that this bill has once again demonstrated that it is worth paying attention to the opposition, because we could have saved those affected from a lot of gray hairs and problems if a significant part of these amendments had been adopted sooner. So I would encourage only my pro-government fellow Members and members of the government to really take greater account of the written issues and manifestations of opposition, because, as this proposal proves, there is often a need and a reason for these. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2019-03-18-256	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Magyar. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following a series of Commission reports on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Qualifications and Scientific Degrees between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation and the debate on the proposal for a comprehensive amendment. The government referral is T/4070. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-03-18-257	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the T/4070 Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation on the mutual recognition of qualifications, qualifications and scientific degrees. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, no votes against, with 4 abstentions. On 11 October 1974, Hungary and the Soviet Union signed an agreement between Hungary and the Soviet Union on the equivalence of educational qualifications and evidence of scientific degree issued in our countries. Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, both Hungary and the Russian Federation considered this agreement to be in force. However, after the termination of the Soviet Union, significant changes have taken place in the education systems of both countries, which have already made the agreement obsolete between Hungary and the Russian Federation. The new Convention reflects changes in public education as well as the acquisition of a new system of degrees in higher education. With its adoption, the 1974 Agreement will be repealed. For this reason, the Convention also takes into account the fact that it currently provides, in addition to the recognition of the available degrees, for the recognition of levels which are no longer available today, of which a significant number of holders are still present in the labour market and in scientific life. The entry into force of the Convention therefore facilitates the continuation of further education and professional activities in accordance with the parties' state legislation, taking into account that both Hungary and the Russian Federation are part of the European Higher Education Area within the framework of the Bologna Process. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said above, we can conclude that we can talk about a series of legislative proposals involving a number of positive changes, and I would therefore ask for your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-18-258	Thank you, Congressman Ovadi. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It indicates no; Bence Rétvári indicates no. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. I'm asking if anyone wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The author indicates that he does not wish to reply and makes use of the opportunity to speak. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CIII on the Erzsébet programme follows in line. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/4820. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor to Mónika Dunai, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-03-18-259	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 14 March 2019 the Legislative Committee discussed the 2012 CIII on the Erzsébet programme. T/4820. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. The summary proposal contains the Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Welfare to conclude a detailed debate. Dear Parliament, The bill provides for the free transfer of three state-owned properties in Fonyód and Zánka in the area of children's camps to the property of the Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin, in order to ensure that children's and youth camps are operated and developed as high as possible in the framework of the Erzsébet programme. The adoption of the law is necessary and useful in order to facilitate camping, so I ask you to support it with your vote. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-18-260	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Bence Rétvári, whether he would like to take the opportunity to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate. The debate is closed. Obviously, the rapporteur still does not wish to comment, since there was no debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[18.50]] There is a debate on the Commission's reports and a summary amendment proposal for the presentation of a comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. Government referral T/4362. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor to Mr Péter Ovádi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-03-18-261	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 14 March 2019 the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the T/4362 Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions. The bill we are putting to the vote summarises our European value system and the missionary objective of extending it to those of civilization and values that are related to us. After the break-up of the Soviet Union and leading their independence further, we established the Eastern Partnership programme in the European Union. Our aim was to bring the former Soviet public companies closer to Europe. Today, the reinterpretation of Europe gives us a new impetus and topicality, and this is what the current change in world policy is driving us to do. We imagine this by returning to our original values, that is to say, we want to preserve our Europe as it is, otherwise there will be nothing more for our Eastern partner who preserves its ancient civilization. We are also guided by security policy considerations in the case of Armenia. Cooperation between the EU and Armenia in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe gives international impetus to the peaceful settlement of the conflict in mountain-karabah. A concrete, tangible political step towards strengthening national identity, Christian European civilisation and political stability is the current international treaty. This Treaty will help our fundamental European values to survive not only in Armenia but also for Europe as a whole. It is the European Union's current task to address its neighbourhood policy. Maintaining the European perspective of former Soviet public companies is part of the transformation of our wider environment by soft means, which brings mutual benefits; for us, our neighbourhood is becoming more and more European, more democratic and safer, the same desired benefit in Armenia, which is why we have been motivated in this cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said above, we can conclude that we can talk about a series of legislative proposals involving a number of positive changes, and I would therefore ask for your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-262	Thank you, Congressman Ovadi. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Azbei Tristan.
u2019-03-18-263	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We are in the summary debate phase, so I would like to give a quick summary of the background, content and political interpretation of the bill before us on its meaning and significance. The background: we know that, until the entry into force of the Agreement, relations between Armenia and the European Union were based on the EU-Ermenia Partnership and Cooperation Agreement concluded in 1990, which was proclaimed in Hungary by the Law establishing a partnership between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. The current enhanced Partnership Agreement was signed on 24 November 2017 by the EU Member States, the representatives of the Union and the Armenian Party in Brussels, and was unanimously ratified by the Armenian Parliament on 11 April 2018. The importance of this enhanced agreement is reflected in the objectives set out in which I would like to draw your attention: cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy, increasing its effectiveness, promoting international peace and security, strengthening cooperation on international security and crisis management, in particular addressing global challenges, developing dialogue in the field of security and security, and promoting peaceful conflict resolution. These are nice and wide-ranging goals. In short, I would like to talk about the benefits of this for Hungary if this partnership is strengthened. I would like to inform the honourable Members that Armenia is an important destination for Hungarian drug exports, we have more cooperation in the agricultural area, but Armenia is still only our 93rd trading partner, so, as they say, there is room for development. This development can benefit from enhanced partnership cooperation. Another consideration, as has been said before, is the geopolitical and security policy aspect. Armenia is located in the region of the Middle East, the Caucasus, which has a great deal of conflict, itself a Member State involved in so-called frozen conflicts, but has shown commitment in recent years to resolve this. In addition, it is worth highlighting here that Armenia has adopted a number of tens of thousands of Armenian-speaking refugees from Syria, so they contribute to what is a fundamental Hungarian interest, a Hungarian interest in national policy and geopolitical interests, a stability in the region and a return to migration. That is why I would like to ask you with respect to support a closer European relationship with Armenia. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-264	Thank you, Secretary of State Azbei Tristan. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. I do not see an application on the screen, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he has anything else to say. [[For signal:]] No. Thank you. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/4075. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, and I would like to ask the rapporteur, Ms Mónika Dunai, to do so.
u2019-03-18-265	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. T/4075. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 21 votes in favour, 10 votes against. The purpose of this bill is to reduce the period of implementation of major investments of major importance for infrastructure and energy supply, by making preventive archaeological explorations possible more quickly through one-gate administration and through the more efficient involvement of regional museums and the Hungarian National Museum. On the basis of the proposal, preventive archaeological explorations will be possible more quickly and efficiently, as in the future, in the case of some major major investments, the investor will only have to conclude contracts with one public organisation, the 100% state-owned Budavári Property Development and Operator Nonprofit Kft. [[19.00]] The coordinating body coordinates, organises the archaeological exploration activities of the relevant regional museum, and, if the archaeological capacities of regional museums are insufficient, arrange for the involvement of the National Museum or its own capacities. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said above, the Legislative Committee has therefore supported the submitted bill and I ask this House to support it in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-266	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Azbei Tristan says yes. You have the floor.
u2019-03-18-267	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, This bill has also occasionally led to a heated debate at certain stages of debate. Its basic objective is to reduce the period of implementation of certain key major investments by allowing investors to be in contact with only one public organisation in order to carry out archeological activities after the change. On the opposition side of the debates, the question arose, but whose interests it is in the interests of. Obviously, it was a rhetorical issue. Our answer, the author's answer, is that it is in the interests of the Hungarian people, on the one hand, by allowing the priority investments to be carried out as soon as possible in order to carry out the archaeological activities, because they must only contact a state heritage organization in the framework of one-gate administration. If we are to return to previous years' practice, the entire archaeological coordination will be returned to the heritage protection body, so that the full management of the archaeological task provided in the preliminary archaeological documentation will be responsible for a single, identical professional standard here, that a public body operating according to the same professional standards will be responsible. So first, investment in job creation will be built, first the critical infrastructure in Hungary will be built. At the same time, in addition to the short-term existential interest of Hungarian people, the value-saving interests of Hungarian culture must also be taken into account, especially since Article P of the Fundamental Law states that natural resources and our cultural values are the common heritage of the nation, which is the duty of the state and everyone to protect, maintain and preserve them for future generations. In this regard, I would like to state that this bill does not, in any way, represent a step backwards in the level of heritage protection. It is a simple archeological professional body official merger, which even simplifies the procedure and also seeks to eliminate the situation of losing the child among many midwives so that clear, standardised professional standards can be applied to heritage protection. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] It states that natural resources and cultural values are the common heritage of the nation, which is the duty of the state and everyone to protect, maintain and preserve for future generations. In this regard, I would like to state that this bill does not, in any way, represent a step backwards in the level of heritage protection. It is a simple archeological professional body official merger, which even simplifies the procedure and also seeks to eliminate the situation of losing the child among many midwives so that clear, standardised professional standards can be applied to heritage protection. Thank you for the floor. (Applause from the pro-government benches. )
u2019-03-18-268	Thank you, Secretary of State Azbei Tristan. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I'm asking if anyone wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see anyone on the screen. I'm sure the Secretary of State has finished what he has to say. Therefore, after I have closed the debate, I would like to indicate that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCIV on national higher education follows. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Government referral T/4516. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Minister says no. Dear Parliament, I ask you, since the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur, there will be speeches from its representatives if the demand is indicated on the screen. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see that. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask Minister if you'd like to comment now. [[Dr. László Palkovics: Together with the following, if I may.]] We need it separately, Minister, that's the order. You have the floor, László Palkovics Minister for Innovation and Technology.
u2019-03-18-269	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, The reason I thought of combining the two is because the two laws are in some way related, but legally, they can't. Here you will decide to amend the law on national higher education. These amendments are basically necessary because we want to create a new university mode, which will be introduced for the first time in the case of Corvinus University. Here, the university itself is removed from the government's maintenance and will continue to operate in the future in the maintenance of a foundation. The aim of this amendment is one, and there is only one way to position Hungarian universities in international rankings. This is obviously the measure of how excellent these universities can be. In the case of Corvinus University, we have set the goal of bringing the world to 200 and 100 of Europe's best universities. We believe that these amendments, which significantly free the university's operating environment, will bring the right responsibility, but this is the result. A few clarification questions. Although Corvinus University does not continue to function as a state university, it will continue to operate as a foundation, but this foundation will promote a Corvinus scholarship programme similar to the Hungarian state scholarship. So students, excellent students, who still receive state aid today, can continue to learn in this way in the future. I believe that these amendments will support the achievement of these objectives, so I ask the honourable Parliament to vote in favour of these proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-270	Thank you, Minister Palkovics. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's report on the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation, the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation and the Corvinus University of Budapest is now under discussion. Government referral T/4514. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I would like to ask Mrs Mónika Dunai, rapporteur for the committee.
u2019-03-18-271	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation, the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation and the T/4514. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour and 6 against. Ladies and gentlemen, A university capable of meeting today's expectations of higher education institutions needs a more flexible and predictable, more predictable operating environment compared to the institutional environment surrounding public universities. This includes competitive employment, strategic time horizon management and funding issues, which provide a basic set of criteria for companies operating in a competitive market environment in the context of successful operation. [[19.10]] To this end, the government decided to introduce the institutional governance model of the Corvinus University of Budapest. According to the bill, the essence of the change is that, from 1 July 2019, the maintenance of the Corvinus University of Budapest will be taken over by the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation instead of the State. After the maintenance change, the Corvinus University of Budapest will act as a foundational, public-use higher education institution. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to stress that the changes do not affect the organizational integrity of the Corvinus University of Budapest, the disciplines taught by the Corvinus University of Budapest and researched at the university, i.e. the university will continue to operate in the fields of economics, social sciences and business, and it is also important to stress that the possibility of widely available free learning at the Corvinus University of Budapest will continue to be ensured in the current order of magnitude under the Corvinus Scholarship Programme. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the aim of this proposal is to increase the international competitiveness of the Corvinus University of Budapest by 2030 among the world's 200, Europe's 100 best universities of economic and social science, which prepares its students with the knowledge that they can do very well in the world and in Hungary. The Legislative Committee supported the proposal. I would ask this House, with its vote in favour of the final vote, to also not stand in the way of this idea. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-272	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I will ask the rapporteur, Minister Palkovic, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end, or both times.
u2019-03-18-273	In the end, thank you.
u2019-03-18-274	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. In the line of speeches, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik.
u2019-03-18-275	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already said in my speech as the lead speaker, on behalf of the Jobbik faction, we cannot unfortunately support this proposal, because this proposal is practically as we see that large, patinas, universities with full training structure such as ELTE, have waves of dismissal. In general, I would also like to point out that there is a growing shortage of funding for university research in universities, where research can be used immediately in education. I'd just like to add quietly to today's interpellation, the attack on knowledge and intellectuals that Fidesz is now conducting on MTA research institutes. So if we put these in one pan and see this proposal in the other pan, which is not the wrong form, because it is that a university such as Corvinus, which provides only a few majors to students, namely, some majors in a very high quality, wants to transform this proposal into a form of foundation, essentially not from the devil, as I explained earlier, in contrast to the fact that such a pattern then, and this emerged from the justification, that the government intends to apply some kind of litmus test to all Hungarian state universities, it is possible to put forward very serious professional and scientific policy arguments. In addition, as we have heard from the rapporteur, there will obviously be a very serious scholarship system that will try to balance trainings that will become tuition fees. All international experience shows that, as subtle as scholarships are, talented young people from the lower segments of society who wish to apply to higher education are deterred by the tuition. So, as sophisticated and widely available as the type of support that is included here in the proposal, the type of tuition that you want to introduce here in connection with Corvinus is socially harmful. Therefore, on behalf of the Jobbik fraction, we cannot unfortunately support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-18-276	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the remaining timeframes. [[No signal coming through.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Minister László Palkovics, who will respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2019-03-18-277	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, As I said here at the opening of the bill, I understand Mr. Koloman's difficult situation, because what he said was based on... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, my name is Brenner Koloman.]] Sorry, yeah. So I understand your difficult situation, but it is precisely the values that this kind of construction clearly highlights as university instructor in the case of ELTE. Of course, given that this is a pro-government proposal, Jobbik does not want to vote for this, although I remember Jobbik's earlier education policy ideas, then it would have been possible, but since then they have changed. So I understand you don't want to vote, but on the other hand, it's hard to accept. What exactly is this about? We show here exactly the values that mean the independence of education or research, because here the foundation that will be the maintainer of Corvinus University will end its relationship with the founder, the Hungarian state. The Hungarian State has decided to give property elements partly to the university and partly to the property of the foundation, which will ensure the operation of the university in the long term, because here, in part, Mol and in part, a significant part of Richter's stock package is worth approximately 380 billion HUF from its return and must finance the operation of the university. The university has received all of its assets along with the appropriate guarantees, and the foundation itself has received an asset element that serves the same purpose. So we're talking about an independent, financially funded university operation that Jobbik and the other opposition parties have been talking about. Now, we've created this, so I don't know why Jobbik won't vote for this. I, on the other hand, trust that seeing the results of the TAB, the others will support this. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt this proposal and vote for it. I think that if these models were to be extended to any other area, they would be in the interest of this area, the Hungarian higher education institutions. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-278	Thank you, Minister Palkovics. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. There is a series of provisions on certain house rules 10/2014. CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religions and religious communities. CXXXII of 2018 amending Act No. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the law. H/4819 submitted by Fidesz MEPs István Bajkai, Csaba Hende and Zoltán Demeter and Imre Vejkey, KDNP representative. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, KDNP.
u2019-03-18-279	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This House is CXXXII of 2018. The Act was adopted at its meeting on 12 December 2018 and will enter into force on 15 April 2019. The law also regulates the conditions for the registration of religious communities, as well as the principles of public participation in the financing of religious activities. [[19.20]] This means, in particular, that, from 15 April 2019, the registration of religious communities with legal personality will not be subject to parliamentary recognition of churches but to judicial registration, with the exception of established churches. In this connection, it was obviously necessary to amend the provisions of the House Regulations instead of the Parliamentary Act, so the amendment of the 10/2014 Parliamentary Decision, and in this respect an H/4819. We have put forward a proposal for a resolution. The Honourable Parliament discussed this proposal for a resolution on 5 March 2019. I have considered that, in fact, there has been no substantive debate between the various factions during the debate. This was also indicated by the fact that no amendments had been tabled by its representatives. On 12 March 2019 the Parliament's Committee on Justice discussed compliance with the House Rules and voted unanimously with 9 votes in favour, without voting against or abstention. I have to say that since no amendment has been tabled, the TAB, the Legislative Committee, has not received the decision-making house rule. I would like to ask you to support the envisaged provisions of this resolution house rule. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-280	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] No. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I'm asking you if there's a need for representatives to use the time frame. (No applicants.) No. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I ask the author if he has anything else to add. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes.]] Congressman Vejkey has the floor.
u2019-03-18-281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In conclusion, I would like to add that I would like to ask the parliamentary factions to support the adoption of this resolution house rule. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-03-18-282	Thank you very much, Congressman. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendments needed to implement the European Union's data protection reform and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/4479. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, which I would like to ask Mr Ádám Héjjj, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-03-18-283	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4479 on amendments to the law necessary for the implementation of the European Union's data protection reform. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions. In 2016, the European Council and the European Parliament as co-legislators on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing the EC Directive 95/46. It has been decided to adopt a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The application of the General Data Protection Regulation and the entry into force of the Hungarian legislative provisions necessary for its implementation will be bound by EU law as of May 2018, the implementation of which will primarily be carried out by the 2011 CXII on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information. law, the info law was amended in two rounds. However, the info law only regulates data processing relationships at a horizontal level with a framework character, so it is necessary to review the data processing rules contained in each sectoral law. The T/4479 currently before this House. A total of 86 sectoral laws will be amended to ensure the coherence of the legal system. The proposal contains a number of innovations that are welcomed by law enforcement, such as health data management or information to those being treated. It is also necessary to highlight the use of so-called open clauses, the essence of which is that the General Data Protection Regulation provides Member States with the possibility to apply rules that differ or clarify the Regulation. The reason for this is that, in certain legal relationships, existing rules in the Member States may differ so much that it is absolutely appropriate to ensure regulatory room for manoeuvre. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said above, we can conclude that we can talk about a series of legislative proposals involving a number of positive changes, and I therefore ask for your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-18-284	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Representatives' speeches will follow within the given time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik.
u2019-03-18-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, When there was a general debate on this bill, it is not often possible to hear from opposition representatives the words of praise that I have made in relation to this bill, since 86 laws had to be examined after we had established the basic legislation on the basis of the Council of Europe regulation last year that serves the data protection system in Hungary. However, in the context of this amendment, I must now express my sadness, because I do not think so, and I would very much like to ask Mr Völner, although we have had a proper change today, so I would very much like to ask Mr Secretary of State that, if you are doing such a heroic job, there is no other plus person to clarify the final version of these proposals. I counted 107 amendments that had to be made by the employees of the Legislative Committee. Amazing! The task of the employees and representatives of the Legislative Committee is to analyse the political and professional content of the proposals, and not to improve the use of commas, letter errors, drafting errors and expressions. Thank you, Mr Dávid Heyj, by way of my fellow Member, and by way of my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai, by way of Péter Ovádi, for the fact that the Legislative Committee has done a very decent job when it corrected these 107 mistakes. But I am asking that this should not be the work of a parliamentary committee, but rather, before they put forward such an important proposal, where there really was a need to introduce coherence problems and novums into this system, there must be at least one person to whom they say that if he has already passed a law, it must be good. There should be a man there, look at these problems, because I think it is a huge waste of human resources, especially if we already have a ministry like this, which is what they call the Legislative Committee having to do such a job. It's not true that the Ministry doesn't have the right professionals to do this, I know they do. And if it's that they're always in a state of time disorder, you're gonna have to end up hammering a law in a dog run, and you're gonna have to tell me calmly, we're all human, we're all working, we all know that it's only the person who makes a mistake, who doesn't do anything, that, of course, doesn't make a mistake. It's no coincidence that I've been assigned every week because I've worked for 30 years, unlike a couple of people who didn't have anything before becoming a congressman. So we know that mistakes can be made, then feel free to say at the plenary session or anywhere where Members meet that we didn't have enough time, but at the end of the day we'll hammer a good piece of legislation. Do it, Mr Secretary of State, when you go back to the Ministry, say it to the Minister or to the Minister, or whose responsibility it is, tell him that please, we cannot put forward a proposal after which the Legislative Committee had 70, 80, 100, and even last year when they had to correct 120 errors; I always count them. [[19.30]] We have said it many times, but it is true that my fellow Member from Turda usually à la nature says that you do not know anything. I don't do that, all I'm asking is that there's no such thing as not being able to honor the House by not having to weed in the TAB when a law is being tabled. The TAB is not for weeding, serious people sitting there, serious, knowledgeable people, they have to conduct the professional and political debate. And what we want here, all of us who are not on this committee, but we have something to do with discussing these proposals and voting, is that we really do not have to see our fellow Members in such an unworthy situation. Csaba Hende, Chairman of the Committee on Legislative Affairs and his team, is not responsible for repairing the work that has not been done by the ministries. So, of course, we are voting in favour of this legislation, as I have already said at the first meeting. We support it, we need it, we are talking about European law, we are talking about European Union legislation, but do it already so that someone can supervise them in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-18-286	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, KDNP.
u2019-03-18-287	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4479 on amendments to the laws necessary for the implementation of the European Union data protection reform. I would like to add to what my fellow Member Dávid Héjj has said in relation to bill No 1 in so far as he has discussed this bill as a committee appointed by the Judicial Committee on 12 March 2019. The amendment proposed by its representatives was not submitted to this bill either, but the members of the Committee of the Government sent a 31-point draft amendment to the secretariat of the Judicial Committee within the specified deadline. This was discussed at the committee meeting and, as a result, this 31-point amendment was voted by the Judicial Committee with a unanimous vote, no votes against and no abstentions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-288	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to speak and respond to what has been said.
u2019-03-18-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just for a brief thought, mentioned by my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm. Technically, we have the man who's going through it at the end, and he works at the Parliamentary Office. That is why these amendments are being translated. This is likely to continue in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-290	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the need to amend certain laws in the event of an irregular withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union follow up the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/4821. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-03-18-291	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 14 March 2019, T/4821 on the necessary amendment of certain laws in the event of an irregular withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 26 votes to two, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The concept of the proposal on the House's table is that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland should make the necessary legislative changes to the existing provisions of certain laws in the event of its withdrawal from the European Union without agreement pursuant to Article 50 (2) of the Treaty on European Union. In light of the events in the Actual Policy, the likelihood of an irregular exit increased significantly by the second rejection of the draft agreement on the conditions for UK withdrawal from the European Union by the UK House of Commons last week. In the absence of an appropriate agreement and an extension of the deadline, the United Kingdom shall withdraw from the European Union at midnight on 29 March 2019 after the second year following the notification of the intention to withdraw and shall become the same as third countries. As a result, on 30 March 2019 the Union Treaties and the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community will no longer apply to the United Kingdom from 0 a.m. Brussels time. Ladies and gentlemen, In accordance with the Government's decision, the coordination of legislative amendments prepared by each wallet was carried out by the Ministry of Justice and prepared a consolidated proposal containing proposals for amendments to the sectoral legislation, which includes amendments to the laws on the promotion of employment and the provision of the unemployed, the Act on the benefits of social security and the right to private pensions, the Act on social security pensions, the Law on compulsory health insurance, the Law on the support of families, the Law on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence, the Law on the provision of persons with changed working capacity and the Law on the modification of certain laws, and the Law on legal activities of lawyers. Dear House, I believe that the further granting of rights in force so far to strengthen the social security of citizens in the future is a reasonable and very pragmatic objective on the part of the Hungarian legislator. Thus, the bill must be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-18-292	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. Here are the speeches by the Members, and I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the Jobbik Group.
u2019-03-18-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, On the part of Jobbik, we can support the bill before us, all the more so, because I think it is in the common interest of all of us that it will happen, which, unfortunately, there is an increasing chance of reading the current news. So if Britain leaves the European Union without a separate agreement, then this will take the form that British citizens living here and studying here will be able to get all the benefits that we Hungarians expect in the spirit of reciprocity and expect from our British partners. However, I must say here that we very much regret that the parts concerning education, which we have drawn attention to here in the speaker's speech, should be dealt with, were eventually not included in this package. We think it is extremely negative that the possibilities for further education of British students studying here are not clarified, and we are not prepared for that. And more importantly, the increasing number of Hungarians living in Britain, studying in high school, studying in higher education and pursuing doctoral education have not at present been given the form in which they will be able to continue this in the spirit of reciprocity. Of course, it would be best if we did not have hundreds of thousands of our countrymen threatened by this unfavourable situation. But on the one hand, we see that the wave of migration from Eastern Europe and, on the other hand, the economic policy of the Hungarian government will unfortunately affect much more Hungarians than is desirable or expected. [[19.40]] We are also sorry to see this, and I have also discussed this for a long time in my speech as a keynote speaker, and I now refer briefly to the fact that the isolation of the Hungarian government in the European Union is worse every week and every day. Thus, the Hungarian government's ability to assert its interests is gradually deteriorating. Finally, we are also saddened to see and find that the representatives of the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Government in the European Union and in the various EU bodies, instead of being busy trying to keep the political community of the Union together, rather than fighting for the management of migration at EU level, they were engaged in trenching, producing false news and, not least, in the sharpening of conflicts, in the expiry of the opposition. Perhaps if this time and energy, let us say, had been used to combat orderly relations, to find a consensus with the EU-critical forces, we might not be here now, and there would be a chance for a policy based on normal, sound dialogue and consensus-searching. Unfortunately, this ship has sailed. So all we can do now is try to minimize the damage. In this respect, however, this bill, even if it does not include the educational part that we are criticising, is a step in all of this, and we will therefore support it on our part. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-03-18-294	Thank you very much, Congressman János Bencsik. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Kovács, Fidesz.
u2019-03-18-295	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I thank the Jobbik faction with great respect for the amendment of the law. At the same time, I must reject the anti-government propaganda attached, as Hungary's accession to the European Union was about opening up opportunities for any EU Member State to Hungary and for Hungarian citizens to any European Union country to live there, try and work there. I think that the Hungarian government's position in the European party family does not point towards isolation, but is about asserting the interests of national sovereignty on Jobbik's flag, but continues to do exactly the opposite, taking it to the European United States. I would like to stick to this law and thank all the parliamentary factions once again for their support. It is possible to debate politically what we are talking about in the campaign before the European elections, but I think that this is not part of the legislative process. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-18-296	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Kovács. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2019-03-18-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for your support for this bill. Perhaps the debate was held within professional limits. I'd just like to add one more thought. In connection with the Brexit, it may have been Hungary, which asked British citizens most loudly not to vote in favour of leaving, unlike some EU leaders, who almost gloated on the process. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-18-298	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We have reached the end of today's agenda. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. The Fidesz representative, Mr Péter Ovádi, has applied for a post-meeting speech:, Another international recognition for Herend porcelain. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2019-03-18-299	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you about another success in the constituency. There are many places to meet the name of Herend Porcelain Manufacture, many economic forums mention the good economic success of recent years, but also the constant character of sports, cultural, artistic and social events. Hungarikum, the leading community in building Hungarian country image, the Hungarian and European flagship of employee ownership, is a well-known and recognised brand on all inhabited continents. Herend has been producing its porcelain products based on craft traditions for nearly two hundred years, manufacturing and not a factory, where they produce porcelain with manual technology. The company's outstanding innovation work is recognised by the fact that it has once again received prestigious international recognition, which it recently received at the Ambiente trade fair in Frankfurt. The rank of recognition is shown by the decision of hundreds of applications, the prestigious international jury of traders, buyers and designers. The question is often asked: What is the secret to the success of Herend porcelain? The question cannot be answered in one word. It took and still needs the combined effect of many factors to make Herend porcelain a symbol of excellent quality and elegance. The cornerstones of the company's operation are the maintenance of the majority of employees' ownership structure, the balance of economic unity and social unity, solidarity, social responsibility, profitable operation, the closed ownership community, the maintenance of manufactural production, the quality approach of all units of the company, the protection of the Herend brand and the requirement of long-term strategic thinking. All of this has led Herend to become the world's largest porcelain manufacturing industry; if we look at profitable operations, export markets, more than 50 countries or almost 75 employees, this is bravely adjustable. Herend Porcelain is a key element in Hungary's image. Herend Porcelain Manufactures can be a competitive, successful and profitable business among the diverse challenges of today's world, changing lifestyles, globalisation and multinational businesses, envying and acknowledging the results of other porcelain companies. Herend brand is a symbol of high quality, value, luxury and elegance. The company pays great attention to the construction of Herendi brand, the company's management makes sure that the Herendi brand built over the past two centuries is not lost. The Herend Porcelain Manufacture has been part of the Hungarian heritage since 2001. It is typical of Herend to be constantly looking for the new one in addition to its traditions, and with its new creations it is able to reach out to generations of today's age. The company cooperates with the Hungarian Design Council, the announced Herend Art Scholarships address Hungarian and international artists today. I believe that the expertise accumulated since the foundation of the manufacture in 1826, the love and respect of Herendian professionals for porcelain, the traditions of manufactural porcelain production, the pursuit of excellent quality and continuous renewal, the uniqueness, innovative thinking in the company, competitive farming, and the beauty and elegance of Herend brands together give the values that link Herend's present-over past and future, while ensuring the long-term survival and development of the company in its present form. The motto of the Herend community is trust, respect and patience. Go, Herend! Thank you for listening.
u2019-03-18-300	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ovadi. After the agenda, Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group asked for a post-memorial speech on the victims of Red Terror in 1919 entitled Schmidt Mátyás railwayman and son. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-18-301	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, During the period of the communist dictatorship established after 1945, the Council Republic of 1919 was tried to integrate it into the Hungarian memory culture as a glorious 133 days. From the Red People's Commissioners of 1919 and their short-lived but bloodthirsty dictatorship, Lenin boys were named after streets and public institutions with the most brutal means of terror, and their way of life was set as an example for youth. The so-called Soviet Republic was founded exactly a hundred years ago, on 21 March 1919. During its 133 days, our country has received a rather shocking taste of the true, cruel nature of communism. [[19.50]] In honor of the victims of the Red Terror in 1919, I would like to recall the story of Mátyás Schmidt and his son, two martyrs of Agfalva, my mother's native village. At this time Mátyás Schmidt was a railway passenger on Sopronkövesden's service, accused of being on the side of so-called counter-revolutionaries who damaged railway tracks. To do this, I would like to quote the work of Imre Miklós, the investigative history of the Hungarian railway transport, who describes this terrible tragic event as follows, and I quote:, Szamuely was presented to the railway teller Mátyás Schmidt, who was accused of being tolerated and did not report it when the tracks were picked up near the railway station. The 49-year-old railwayman Samuely was immediately sentenced to death without question. Under his chin, a rope was twisted and hanged on a pear tree. As he could breathe sometimes, he was tortured from 8:30 to 11:00 a.m. until he finally died. Previously, they tried to force his 18 - year - old son to hang his father, but he refused, even offered to die instead of his father. The boy who fainted in pain was also stabbed to death. He was watered up and had to watch his father suffer, and eventually he was hanged from the tree across the street. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. By recalling this terrible episode, I would like to pay tribute to the victims of Red Terror in 1919, Mátyás Schmidt's railwayman and son. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-18-302	Thank you, Congressman Brenner Koloman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Good evening, good night. Meeting day's closed.
