u2019-11-21-0	The meeting of the Parliament will continue with the discussion of the points of today's meeting, i.e. the 21st of November. Therefore, the 12th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Dezső Incredible are in charge of the meeting. They'll be notary gentlemen to help me. I also welcome our dear guests who are monitoring our work today. We now have a general debate on the bill amending certain laws to simplify the functioning of the metropolitan and county government offices until closure. Government referral T/8017. The House's IT network is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, You have a major package of laws ahead of you. Our basic goal is to provide services to businesses and Hungarian people, which are our basic social goal, which means that Hungary should be one of the most livable states in Europe by 2030. With this aim in mind, and with this aim, the current bill was proposed, which is the legislative foot of a 1,000-page legislative package. 1000 pages that can fundamentally change the attitude of the state to its citizens, how we deal with a matter and what we need to change in the next period. The main word and the main direction we want to achieve is trust. Trust, because the public administration, the relationship between the state and the citizens, the relationship between the state and businesses must be based on trust. The trust that basically means that citizens and entrepreneurs follow the law and should not be forced to follow the law; they should not be required to apply for permits in each case, but they should also be able to do certain acts for notification, because Hungarian citizens should be trusted to comply with the law. One of the important steps we want to take is simplification. We need a simple and efficient public administration, we need to take measures that can make people's everyday lives easier, make them more comfortable, and by doing so, it is also essential to speed up the processes of public administration, as this will save people time, resources and money for Hungarian people. The reduction of cases is also a national economic interest, as the reduction of administration will save resources for businesses on the one hand, and for private people on the other, and will also relieve people of administrative burdens, i.e. physical administrative burdens, and will also change the country's competitiveness. In the last two main directions, the legislative activities related to public administration have taken place in recent years, and in Hungary, on the one hand, an organizational transformation, which meant the transformation of the regional and central government administration, since on 1 January 2011 government offices were established in the county and capital, which were able to merge some twenty former regional government administrations, and on the other hand, from 1 January 2013 the district offices were able to be established, which finally allowed us to take a historic or historical step, since we went back to the Hungarian administrative traditions, and the central, territorial and local levels of the system of public administration were established. In 2016 and 17 a new step was taken, since the system of central offices was revised by the state, and as a result of the decision of the Parliament and the Government, 45 more central offices could be dissolved, partly merged into the ministries and partly into the metropolitan and county government offices. With this step, a difficult-to-understand administrative system has become much simpler and clearer; the process of administration has become simpler and clearer for both citizens and businesses. The other important step was to change the rules of procedure. Our new administrative statute, which was adopted by the Parliament, was able to reduce the time spent on administration and reduce the number of unnecessary administrative procedures, i.e. to make the process of administration, decisions, such as administration, much simpler and faster, so that it could help the country to further strengthen its competitiveness. [[14.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, The results speak for themselves, but the results do not give us a reason to stop in action. Reinforcing a modern and service administration will always and always be our task. In this case, it is also worth drawing up foreign examples and continuing the work, as long as we see cases that can be simplified in the next period. So we cannot sit back, we still have work to do, and the government, with the assistance of government agencies, has revealed further issues that are worth simplifying. I would like to emphasise the involvement of government agencies. The package of laws before you was created by finding people who dealt directly with the affairs of people, businesses, and we gathered their proposals, so we can safely say that the package of laws here is the work of about 30,000 people. 700, more than 700 proposals have been made that have been incorporated into our legislation. The result is this more than 100 - page legislative package, and about 900 additional pages, as a result of which the public administration can simplify. It's important to get impulses from people who actually deal with matters. There are about 28 million clients in the Hungarian public administration, and there are so many cases in the Hungarian public administration, so many cases are dealt with by government agencies, from the address card to the social administration through the family support system or consumer protection, so the activity that our government offices embrace is quite extensive. Thus, it is no wonder that 700 areas, such as procedures, could be simplified and transformed in the next period, helping Hungarian citizens, citizens to live more comfortably and the country's competitiveness. Of course, it is impossible to list all the changes in such an expo, but allow me to refer to some important measures. We have a number of types of authorisation in the administrative system today, but it should be possible to start certain activities with notification, since the vast majority of our administrative system today is an administrative system based on authorisation, which makes it very slow and cumbersome and sometimes unjustified for the state to intervene in the lives of citizens to this extent. I would like to refer to the fact that when we are talking about a notification procedure instead of a licence, we must pay particular attention to the fact that, in certain areas, the level of protection cannot be reduced, so we would like to introduce notification procedures, the essence of which is that if a person announces an activity in advance, he can start after 30 days without a separate act of the State, but if the State considers, as a result of the notification, that the activity is illegal, so that the notified activity cannot be carried out, these 30 days are available for the State to take a decision to prohibit the continuation of this activity. However, life is much simpler and more predictable, because it is clear and clear to Hungarian people and businesses how long it will take for them to start this activity. There are several such activities, which will be announced in the next period. These include the construction of sidewalks and footpaths, the establishment of certain forestry facilities or, for example, the start of labour placement activities. The proposal also includes the simplification that, in these cases, mandatory controls will be abolished within 30 days, so that citizens' lives will be simpler. It is not necessary to harass citizens with constant scrutiny, but it is necessary for citizens to behave differently in compliance with the law, and it is necessary to act more forcefully when there is abuse in individual random checks, because sanctions must be taken seriously. I think that this is the right direction, because this is the right direction across Europe, not only in accordance with Hungarian practice, but almost everywhere in Europe, the right administrative direction, effective administrative management. An important change is the introduction of a single administrative system. What is not new in this regard, obviously, since the new administrative procedural rules already make this the norm, and in the case of government decisions, this has already been introduced earlier in the case of government decisions, but it is important that this principle can continue to apply as a whole, since we can speed up administrative decisions. What in the language of numbers does that mean, what does this look like in practice today? Today, about 28 million decisions are made by the public administration each year. Out of these 28 million cases, about 50 thousand cases, so 50 thousand cases go to second base, and five thousand in the order of magnitude will be brought before the court, and the court will change the previous administrative decision in about 1500 of them. These figures show that it is possible to speed up the procedure and to shift the guarantee rules from public administration to judicial practice. What is not new across Europe, what we are saying, the Austrian administration, by the way, has changed to this order. Their experience has also shown that otherwise this has not increased the burden of the courts to such an extent that this has slowed down administrative matters. During the first period, there was a run-up, but from the next year it went down, and the cases were, moreover, faster overall. The guarantee was strengthened, since the two-degree procedure was published in court proceedings, which is what this proposal and our legislative proposal relating to this proposal, as regards this leg of the judicial system, and which is also being negotiated by Parliament today, contain this, so the two laws must be interpreted in a uniform manner in this respect. The Hungarian economy has grown quite dynamically over the past period, and this growth is worth maintaining. With a simpler public administration, speeding up the administrative system, it is certainly possible to make business everyday life easier, and small and medium-sized enterprises must also be strengthened, so the public administration must also serve the country's competitiveness. This is what the change to self-employed people is about, which is in this bill, or the change to building management. On the basis of the administration of individual businesses alone, this means 180,000 cases a year, but if you want to become a self-employed person, there are people in Parliament who were self-employed, so you know exactly what this means, what administrative obligation it means, and what problem the duplication of administration is. After all, it is also a problem if a person wants to start a business activity, then he has to start in two ways, on the one hand, with a NAV announcement, but before that, of course, he also has an entrepreneurship license at the government office, so he must be allowed to start his activities with an official act. Regardless of the fact that it was necessary to commence the activity, of course, if that activity was subject to authorisation, it must be obtained, but in itself, if anyone wanted to undertake, it was indeed a duplicate system in this respect. Also, in the case of every entrepreneur who started his business, within 30 days of that, there is a mandatory inspection in the system, the justification of which is worth considering, since if a person wants to start his activities as a shoemaker, what makes it appropriate for the authority to go out after 30 days and see if he really works as a shoemaker. It is enough that you pay the tax and actually carry out that activity. Then, of course, during the inspections carried out by the various administrative departments or through specialised inspections, where appropriate, the random checks shall be carried out, whether from a public health point of view or from other aspects. Therefore, this 30-day audit will also be terminated, so the mandatory 30-day control will also be terminated by this bill and we will also start in the direction of having a register. Entrepreneurs' ID will disappear, so we do not need a separate act to enable someone to engage in business activities, and we start in the direction that the two registers, which are registered by the NAV, i.e. the tax register and the register of self-employed persons, will be integrated into a register, i.e. the start of the activity with an announcement, a tax authority notification will be made. It could also be faster to deal with building-related matters, since this proposal would create a single system of construction efficiency for the next period. As you know, the state performs its activities in the field of construction, i.e. its official activities, which is a state task in particular, in a double way. On the one hand, it transfers a task to a municipal administration area outside the administration of the State as a construction authority, which, by the way, has a second degree in the government administration system, while another part of construction matters takes place in the government office. Thus, the municipality has its own responsibility to establish the regulation and, after the regulation, the State has a role in the area of construction. The State has therefore doubled its decisions, but this duality can cause both incomprehensible and slowing down in the field of construction, since a duplication of construction makes interpretation difficult and slows administration and doubles the country's resources in this regard. Therefore, the proposal states that everything should be replaced: the mayor's offices under the municipalities should deal with municipal authority matters, so that the municipality's affairs and a notary should actually be the mayor's boss, so that it should not happen that, in other official matters, in a case of construction management, the superior body is not the mayor, but the government office, because that is the case at present. This is the situation that we want to make clear, the municipal authority matters should belong to the office of the municipality as mayor's office, and the state's official affairs should belong to the state. [[14.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, The public affairs and changes presented so far are also a priority for the national economy, but it should be stressed that there are also changes that are not relevant for the direct national economy and for the state, but for the citizens and specifically for certain vulnerable or more vulnerable social groups. There are a lot of annoying rules that are unnecessary, and I can say that it may also be a stalker, when, for example, citizens are called upon to appear too often or to replace certain certificates or certificates too often, although this is in reality unjustified. For example, the range of persons who need or are entitled to public health care. There are two types of these, the subjective and normative public health care. The time of these public health certificates will increase from two years to four years in the subject matter and from one year to two years in the normative case, if the honourable Parliament adopts the bill. This will significantly help the situation of the vulnerable social group in this regard. This is also the case with regard to persons with disabilities who will be subject to a mandatory review every five years if the person concerned is in a state of health in which no improvement can be expected. In these cases, it is appropriate not to apply to the authority every five years and, humiliatingly, in the same situation, to ask for the same certificate which was otherwise requested five years earlier. This is also the case for those who raise a sick or severely disabled child whose condition is regrettably a change or recovery is not likely to occur. Where such a situation exists, the request for new family allowances certificates should not be repeated on a continuous basis, and the child will be valid until the age of 18, so that no new such certificate is required. There is also a change that can help to create the register of ad hoc caretakers in the most difficult situation, as case-by-case caretakers always act in a situation where, suddenly, a case-by-case caretaker has to be appointed in order to protect the janitor's rights, and this is typically to be done in different official procedures. At the moment, if we want to appoint a case-by-case caretaker, we need to go to the guardian's office, and the case-by-case caretaker is appointed by the guardian in another procedure. However, if we have a janitor's register, there is no obstacle to the fact that the body in whose proceedings it is necessary to appoint a case-by-case janitor becomes entitled to the secondment of a case-by-case janitor, so that in the most urgent cases we can reach the fastest decision and not wait for the ad hoc janitor to be deployed, but can be achieved very quickly in the same procedure. An important change, even in the case of the disabled, is the elimination of the so-called rehabilitation plan, which is a plan that has not, in a professional sense, provided substantial assistance, but has been an unnecessary administrative burden and a bureaucratic burden for those affected, which will also be eliminated. A significant change, which I consider to be significant, is also the procedure for mandatory data reconciliation before retirement. The fact is that when a person retires, the harassment of those people starts eight to ten years before him in order to justify his previous relationship, and then we repeat it to people several times. The best thing is that once our IT conditions are available, we do this only once. I understand, by the way, the right to do so several years ago, when the documents were only available on paper, but now that a significant part of the documents are already available in electronic form, it is enough to do so once, three years before retirement, because we do not have more knowledge if we start this 8-10 years ago, but it is a better message for citizens if we do not harass them 8-10 years before they retire with the fact that, yes, in 8-10 years, they will retire, and therefore we would like to collect all the data from them. We would also like to set up a more uniform and clearer organisational system with regard to the organisational system. The district should be the district, and the county should be the county, this is the basic principle, and we would like to strengthen it in the next period, so the concept of the district of the county, which is historically established, will also become a district, the part of the district powers that affect the county, which will go to the county. Accordingly, public administration will become clear, and it will be clear to citizens where they need to turn in their respective cases, if necessary. We have also examined whether everything is in place and that the government office has properly performed its activities in terms of portfolio. So I can safely say that a portfolio cleanup is always worth doing, because the government agency system is basically an authority-type system, and an activity that is not an authority-type or affects a wide range of people, but even a narrow professional group, those activities should be shifted towards chambers. After all, it is justified that chambers perform the activities of a narrow profession, and that activities that are body strangers to a government agency system, from the official work that is there, should be transferred to other public bodies that can perform this more effectively, by virtue of their function, better than, say, the government administration system. Accordingly, activities could be transferred to chambers and associations, such as minor violations, detection of offences and related measures, which are worth putting to the police, because that is exactly what their activities are aimed at, or their activities are powerful, and that is why it is worth handling there. At the same time, it is also worth transferring certain activities to the chambers, such as the register of family farmers to the Chamber of Agriculture, the activity related to energy consultancy to the Chamber of Engineers or the registration of gas installers, or one step further, it is worth transferring certain activities to the Association, for example, the register of forest trips to the Hungarian Association of Natural Transport. Think about it, the register of forest hiking trips has been a state task in the government administration system, although this should be left to the sphere, who is, by the way, the best owner of tourist trips. This proposal also provides for what is the public administration of the future. We must not forget that in the future we will have to talk about a public administration based on data and based on basic information systems. If we take into account a 20-30-year perspective, then, in terms of decision-making systems, with the introduction of artificial intelligence, our public administration will certainly undergo a major transformation, which is what we can see when we look to the future. We do not need to go far, because we see what activity is in the market, and we will have to adapt it to the public administration. Important steps should also be taken to achieve this, and therefore the proposal also provides that the communication and access of the various IT systems should be ensured by the different data and should be implemented by 2021. This will, of course, also serve the interests of customers, as it will not actually be possible to verify data that is otherwise recorded on a regular basis, only for the time being, let's say, it cannot be accessed from one system to another. We would like to turn this into a single system so that customers do not have to submit all kinds of certificates in the next period. [[14.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, In closing, allow me to quote Zoltán Magyary: the state must be brought close to the citizens, the administration must become a human face. This is the objective that we want to pursue, and in the spirit of this objective, the current bill has been drawn up, because we want an administration based on trust, which is fast and efficient, and mutual trust can indeed develop between the citizen, the enterprise and the state. In this spirit, I would like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-21-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The technical service of this House indicated that, in order to technically separate the two sitting days, we are obliged to take a 5-10 minute technical break, so that we can then begin the speech of the lead speaker. I ask for your understanding. [[Break: 14.21 14.26]]
u2019-11-21-3	Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats, we'll continue the meeting. I would like to thank you for your cooperation so far and give the chair to Vice President István Hiller. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2019-11-21-4	Welcome. We'll get back to work. The keynote speeches will be held. First we hear the thoughts of Dr. Judit Bertalan, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-11-21-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the context of the bill before us, allow me first to bring a series of thought and a few quotes from Zoltán Magyary, as a quote from the Secretary of State. In advance, Zoltán Magyary is the XX. One of the outstanding administrative lawyers of the century, born in our county, we are extremely proud of it, and not only at county level, but I think that Zoltán Magyary's ideas, administrative-organization science are not only an important curriculum in legal science and law history, but in 2010 when we started to reorganize the administration in the then government cycle, we also called upon the ideas of his legacy, which can be filled with modernity and modern content, which, since he laid these classes, has been a fundamental basis for the organisation of the administration. The bill before us is about simplifying the operation of the metropolitan and county government offices, so let's call on Zoltán Magyary, what he says about the reform of the administration. It says, on the one hand, that the reform of public administration is the reform of people's relations with the state. If I would like to briefly and date the administrative processes that have been going on since 2010-11, I have to say that, in the period 2010-14, in addition to laying the foundations for organizational reforms, the introduction of a Magyary Zoltán creed or ars poetica, quoted by the Secretary of State, has actually occurred in addition to laying the foundations for organizational reforms, and there has been simplification, rationalisation, deregulation and everything that strengthens the confidence of customers in the state and confidence in public administration. [[14.30]] So if we put and stage an administrative reform in the way Zoltán Magyary did, we can say that after the first stage, which settles and redefines people's relations with the state, that is to say, the reform took place in the first year of the last nine years, as county government offices were established, administrative procedures were significantly simplified, previously organised to regional administrative level, and not only distance, but also the legacy of additional administrative procedures, bureaucracy, costs and procedural arrangements before 2010. From 2014 onwards, if I want to speak in a professional or legal language, the precision and improvement of this administrative transformation has taken place. Zoltán Magyary, to continue with his thoughts, says that the reform of the public administration is the internal improvement of the above mentioned and the state machine. So he puts the reform of the public administration on two bases, on the one hand, to determine the role of the state and man, on the other hand, to settle the relationship and, on the other hand, to improve the system of public organizations, quasi-machinery, as he calls it, in several studies. Zoltán Magyary also says that the operation of this machine must be kept under constant review, since the improvement or continuous application and enforcement of human-faced administration and the retention of the public administration, although a system of state apparatus, which has always seemed large, helpless and almost unchangeable, encourages and prompts the time to react to changing and changing circumstances to be as quickly as possible, and the matters to be dealt with in his organization are as effective as possible, the citizens' parentheses, as the Secretary of State has said, will be made to the benefit of businesses as effectively, efficiently, quickly and as possible. Zoltán Magyary also says and I recall him constantly for a reason, because the Secretary of State said all this in his exposé, either by looking at a group of cases or a type of case, or by recalling the detailed rules of the bill before us, that rationalization is a saving on the one hand. I think that the efficient, cost-effective functioning of the state, both the reforms so far and the simplification of the procedures in the bill before us, the elimination of the remaining duplications, the removal of certain procedures from the administrative sphere at all, are all in line with the ability of the state to operate such a system sparingly for the benefit of its citizens, by the way. The simplification of this is also said by Magyary that the other aspect of rationalisation is simplification, I think it is included in the bill that lies before us. After all, the Secretary of State referred here to a number of groups of cases, such as the application for, the submission of business business card and the fact that this is not necessary or that it becomes a case for dealing with NAV cases, so there is no need for businesses or citizens to contact the office several times in one case and to initiate more proceedings. This also means that, in the case of administrative matters relating to construction and construction, the applicant, the notifier, does not need to be informed, in addition, that he is now dealing with this with the municipal or district construction authority. There are a number of absolutely practical simplification proposals that already know this principle of rationalisation, which has been known since Magyary. Modernisation or modernisation of public administration, I think, is not a question. If there was no question at Magyary's age, then in this century in which we live today, it is absolutely necessary. At the end of the expo, the Secretary of State pointed out that the type of digitalization, that kind of technological transition, should become a daily life for the public administration. Many procedures are already electronically available, there are very many cases and groups of cases that can be dealt with either through a government window or through the customer's electronic administration interface, but for this, it is inevitably necessary that the Secretary of State referred to at the end of the exposé that all procedures that have run or run in separate IT systems and registers should be formulated and done, if you like, by a call after 2010, by means of a call, a one-stop-shop on the basis of the law, along with the simplification of procedures. After all, this makes public administration extremely fast, efficient and, by the way, cheaper and more efficient from both public and civil sides. The establishment of a uniform system of criteria in the organizational system is no longer an incidental aspect in Magyary. Here, I would like to recall only a few thoughts from the Secretary of State's expozee, the register of various nature conservation roads or hiking trips managed in the system of public administration in the absence of a better method of construction, so that what was not previously sectorally defined is who to register with, otherwise, in the 30 years past, it has occasionally been swept into some public administration. I do not necessarily say this as a sin, I just had to put it in writing and since 2010 this administrative strategy has been formulated, that these matters must be opened nicely, to see what the citizen and the state need to do in order to have an additional nth register, and to do something about this register, both the state and the citizen should have something to do with it. There are things that can be achieved by keeping it in the system or handling it outside the system, and that does not upset its functioning in a uniform way, and this makes it easier for both citizens and businesses handling their affairs and for the public administration system that manages these matters, to record it, or to deal with the related notification or some administrative procedure. Perhaps the biggest annoyance for a citizen who appears as a client in the administration to get tired of one of the offices has been a great deal of simplification in the past period, as I can hardly follow it with the design of government windows, but it is nearly 3,000 cases that we can start in government windows, and the number of cases that can be initiated by government windows is already very large. If my fellow Members remember that we started with this development in 2011 at the base of the document office, that IT professional base, and then in 2013 with the districts we managed to bring more groups of cases in order to bring the administration closer to the citizens, then they can see that the few personal documents may be numberedly a few dozen, but there may have been a dozen cases that could be dealt with in the document offices prior to the government window, the few cases that are now nearly 3,000 that the client can start, start, ask for information, or receive assistance in substance, or carry his case to a meaningful decision. So it seems that there are huge steps to be taken in a few years, and it also seems that citizens need predictability, stability and a sense of security in public administration, so it is interesting that we are also talking about administrative reform between 2010-14, 2014-18, and now the Government and the Secretary of State are coming to Parliament with a new reform and a simplification plan. I think that there is nothing special about this, because if not only we assume and see it as necessary, and we see security not only in static and constant, but we also feel that an administrative system is capable of fulfilling its role and task along the lines of efficiency, simplicity, speed and professionalism, which I quoted from Zoltán Magyary at the beginning, but also of responding to them by following the circumstances of the changing world, responding to the rapid changes of entrepreneurs, businesses and the world of the economy, accepting as such the rapid and efficient administration of business groups, the public administration reacts and is able to change even if it can make more and more of citizens' affairs even simpler, even in one place. Not only do I understand the degree of law enforcement, but I go into the office, and in a given time or in a given electronic procedure, because where further, I have just mentioned, this is very important, we can do it today in many cases, I can solve my affairs about the state, I don't have to draw a number, I don't have to go to offices, I don't have to take any more days off, so from all sides it can track the changes in everyday life, so the flexibility must still be included in the administration, which, on the other hand, should be a very important feature of reinterpreting the relations with citizens. [[14.40]] If I bring back the idea I quoted from Zoltán Magyary as closing, that it is the first and important thing to define, define, in the reform of the public administration, people's relations with the state, and build on these changes, and on the other hand, the reform of the public administration means the internal improvement of the state machinery, then this principle defining the two administrative reforms and now we should stay with Magyary, which defines government work or the organisation of the public administration, and then, I think it is right that the government should sometimes review the types of affairs, procedures, cases, levels of office, where these matters can be dealt with by citizens, and make regular proposals for improving and precisioning the administrative organisation system, so that the government can carry out its administrative tasks for citizens and the nation in an even better and even more effective way. I have brought another thought and quote from Magyary, perhaps I will conclude with this; I would not go into detail about the types of cases or specific changes contained in the bill, because the Secretary of State gave a lot of attention to each of them in his expo. Magyary concludes his thoughts when he talks about the reform of the public administration, and, along the two aspects that I have repeatedly referred to, he thinks and meditates on rationalisation, so that the state must do so in such a way as to ensure the well-being of the citizens of the state and the expression of the power and values of the nation with the greatest possible approach to optimism. We are well aware that we can achieve optimism and proper functioning if there is a continuous external and internal revision or revision of the organizational system, which has been ongoing in the organizational system of the Hungarian administration since 2010, following the establishment of a new-based government district system. Reflections are incorporated into public administration laws and implementing regulations, and therefore deregulation processes, proposals simplifying the procedure or even eliminating the types of procedures, are following our everyday lives, and, in other words, ensure that citizens enjoy as much security and confidence as possible in the handling of their affairs with regard to the state. In addition, if this procedure is predictable, economical, efficient, professional, we have taken a step forward in establishing confidence in the state. I have great confidence. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and with great anticipation, I propose to this House that the bill be adopted and to grant the Secretary of State the support of the Fidesz faction. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-21-6	Thank you. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-11-21-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to start with what Secretary of State Bence Tuzson said about the goal: modern and service administration is at the heart of the goal. This, I think, is a very important goal you have set here. In 2010, when the Jobbik Movement for Hungary entered the Parliament and the second Orbán government was established, it was also regularly said from the second Orbán government in 2010 that they wanted to introduce a completely new type of public administration, where this modernisation and service focus would be the aim. The most important thing is to simplify procedures so that customers have to spend as little time in offices as possible to deal with their cases as easily as possible. And then we got some very serious promises, and then this, I don't know, has been going pretty hard for the last nine years. Of course, there were constant partial results in these areas, but when we heard from the Hungarians working in Western Europe, who worked there, and they came in contact with the authorities, or when they might have become entrepreneurs out there, or they started a company, and they had to conduct the various licensing procedures there, we always listened to them jealously, how easily things work there, how quickly you can get some permits, how good it is to just announce and do that activity, you don't have to get permissions for it. And I am pleased to hear from the Secretary of State, too, that it is also a goal here in the future for many procedures, that instead of authorisation, there should be a notification obligation, and for my part, I can only welcome those thoughts if they are actually implemented and indeed simplify these administrative procedures. Obviously, it's the 21st. Hungary of the century has to follow the spirit of the age in all respects, but I think that we are still far behind Western Europe, still much more difficult, still much more bureaucracy, still much more opaque authorisation procedures, and we still need to be much more afraid of the power of the authorities if we do not comply with some of our reporting obligations or do not comply with them in time. And this is perhaps a bit of criticism to the Hungarian administrative authorities that we hear many times when we are trying to comply with European Union standards, that perhaps Hungary is the country where the authorities implement European Union standards in the most consistent way, even if, in the case at hand, they do not really apply to social conditions, traditions, lifestyles and others in Hungary, but in our country, they will be consistently carried out, and in some states where the authorities are so simply dealing with them, and let things take place in their own way, in Hungary they often cross businesses when they are hindered by doing so. I think that there should also be sufficient flexibility in this area. I trust there will be a change to the current situation. Therefore, the obligation to notify is good in many cases, better than to ask for authorisation because an activity is subject to authorisation, but there are also risks. I've been looking at this bill, obviously there's a lot to take out, and there's only one thing I'd like to give you in this respect, and that's the protection of fetal life, which is 10. §. Organisations related to the protection of fetal life, if they want to operate here, have been subject to authorisation so far, and now they have only the obligation to notify, which may be a good thing, only if we consider that today Hungary is a priority in Hungary, and I think that Hungary's biggest problem today is the number of children's births, then it is very important to protect fetal life. If any organization is involved in this, which does not have the necessary experience, professional background, does not have the right school-educated, professionally trained people, then it may not be that a company that starts operating in this area will have exactly the opposite effect than would be the desired goal. So when we are in such a delicate area, it may not be good to ease this and move from authorisation to notification. Obviously, this can't be measured in advance, but there are anomalies in man when he thinks about this, to make sure it's okay. Of course, there are some positives in it, which the Secretary of State pointed out, such as social law, entitlement to public health care, where there is a doubling of the period for which they can apply, for which the duration of public health care is granted, increases from two years to four years, and from one year to two years. This will, of course, be simplified, since in this area the administration will be reduced by half if we look at these two years and four years. This is certainly good for the offices, and it is certainly good for the citizens. The other positive thing I would like to highlight, for example, is the law on the protection of nature, which, in my view, also contains positives, in a number of ways. For example, the protection of caves, where even a new section is introduced, stands out, which is important in any way. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary considers nature protection and the preservation of our natural values important in all areas, which is why we consider it important for the government to give priority to this. [[14.50]] It is also an important innovation here in relation to damage to nature that, in the event that the person carrying out the activity cannot be found and that this is entered as a new stage, and it is not possible to find out who has done this damage to nature, in the case the owner, holder or user of the property is jointly and severally liable for the offence or behaviour for whom they have committed. It is always important that a crime, such as a nature-damaging crime, cannot be held accountable, and I believe that the legislation closes the circle, and it is in any case possible to find the person responsible for the nature-damaging behaviour. The same thing I would like to point out as positive is that the soil protection law, the soil protection authority, has to be approved. Here the list is slightly expanded, and the law specifically mentions the agricultural use of sewage, sewage sludge and sewage sludge compost, which is subject to a specific authorisation, for the authorisation of the soil protection authority. This was formulated, but not so specifically in the previous legislation. This, too, is certainly forward-looking, especially when it comes to the fact that it has shaken the moods in the last six months of the foreign sewage sludge dumped in the vicinity of Székesfehérvár. He caused quite a civil outrage among the inhabitants of Székesfehérvár and its surroundings. I felt the smell of this stench, which was spilled at Székesfehérvár in a certain area. I can tell you it's not unpleasant, but it's unbearable to live in an environment where you have to live with that kind of smell every day. Not to mention that there are other risks of planting such sewage sludge on agricultural land or even in the form of containers without authorisation. Of course, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary does not agree at all, and many of my fellow Members have already said that, for example, Tibor Nunkovics, how opposed we are to the introduction of sewage sludge into Hungary from abroad. And then, in an exemplary way, what's a little unclear about him is 54. §, amendment of the law on company disclosure, company procedures and winding-up, where, if a company is wound up, it has been required to be notified to the competent labour centre so far. Obviously, if you're expected to get laid off there, you should be aware of that. It's obviously not relevant for a company with 5 employees, but if a company with a thousand employees has a liquidation, it's good for the competent employment centre to be aware of that, because it could be anything. I, for one, consider it unnecessary for this to be carried out in this case. So in some cases we are talking about textual clarification, but in some cases there is a substantial change. What I would like to highlight as a negative from the law, especially the first half of the legislation, is 1. §, which we cannot agree with strongly enough, especially in the way that this happens, which provides for the property and property rights of the local government, while also detracting powers from the municipality. We also see that, since 2010, the Fidesz government has consistently been in the process of emptying the municipalities, withdrawing their powers and reducing the financial framework. Just yesterday, we discussed a bill that will also focus on financial austerity and will introduce it if it is adopted. So we can talk about the nationalisation of municipal property here, although ownership does not transfer, but it says that the State will be free to use certain assets which may be movable and immovable property, and that the state's law will continue to be exercised by the metropolitan and county government offices. As I said, it also applies to movable and immovable property. This goes hand in hand with the transfer of certain functions and the transfer of property and movable property, as defined by the law, by the legislator. The method is not the twenty-fourth century, since it is transferred with a one-sided dictatorship. It is necessary to try the agreement, if this agreement is not reached, because it does not like, let us say, to the municipality, how, in which way, which area is taken, the government office will simply take a decision on this and, on the basis of the decision, it should be handed over to the office. This is a unilateral dictatorship that will enter into force from 15 February 2020. Therefore, from this point forward, a decision will be taken by the Government Office on issues not settled in the agreement or at all on the agreement if this does not take place. Moreover, there is no appeal against the decision and this can be implemented immediately. So there's no way we can talk to a XXI. It's a 100th-century procedure. Unfortunately, this is a rather dictatorial procedure, which makes me regret that the law, by the way, a very large salad law, amends 99 pieces of legislation in it, there are good things in it, too, but, as I point out here, I do not think it is good, and we do not think it is acceptable in any way. We also have a problem with such legislation, when there are so many types of legislation, obviously not all of them can be appropriate. So it is difficult to support such a bill, in which there are points, to amend laws, or to amend laws in ways that we cannot agree with. So that's the problem. The introduction of a one-degree procedural system is questionable to me that it will work well. The bill clearly favours this. Fortunately, the rights set out in the Fundamental Law are not violated because our Fundamental Law clearly states that everyone has the right to appeal. Even in this case, when there will be an official decision, the remedy can act as a means of bringing a judicial review to a court. We hope that this will not be at the expense of citizens when they cannot enforce their rights at second instance, at administrative level. I think that makes it a little more difficult, because people have this kind of awareness that they're more afraid of court than they like to go to court. In fact, they feel that it's a bit shabby to go to court for what's right. Not to mention, people think that a court case is much more expensive than a simple administrative procedure, where we may even be able to talk about a need for a lawyer, which will strengthen it again. And perhaps a two-degree administration system would be more beneficial in this regard, but let us hope that this kind of system that the government has just brought to us will work. My time seems to be up, so thank you very much for your opportunity and your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-21-8	The congressman has an eagle eye, and that's good for us. So now, Mr János Harghitai, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2019-11-21-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I intend to talk about four issues, without the details, about organizational movements, procedural issues, the reorganization of certain powers, and I think it is important to discuss remedies, even if this is opened in substance by another related law. But obviously, such a procedure is also part of the appeal procedure. At the time when we are discussing the bill for the reform of government offices, we know that we are talking about an institution with a fundamental basis, at least two sides. On the one hand, from the procedural side. Article XXIV of the Fundamental Law The State guarantees them an impartial procedure in the public proceedings, guarantees them a fair trial and resolves all these procedures within reasonable time limits. Obviously, this requires an organisation through which these guarantees can be enforced by the current government when operating its own system. [[15.00]] And the Fundamental Law itself designates this organization when, in a county square, because we live in counties, it says that in such a county space, the government's administrative institution with general competence is precisely this government office. They're obviously different, but that's the general authority. Some of us were involved, as legislators, in setting up this system. We know very well that before 2010 there was a fragmented administration system throughout the county, so that every ministry had its own institutions and organisations in the counties. They often did not communicate with each other, even though the administration system of the same government operated in these different units. It was therefore a very big breakthrough in the creation and expansion of a single government administration system. Because over the years, more and more of the units that were called to the administrative bodies were placed in the government offices. It was at least such an important step, which the Secretary of State said in his expo, the creation of the district office system itself within the single government office, following the Hungarian administrative traditions. So what I'm saying is that a reasonable structure has been created in a county space, which, no doubt, in the first round, in 2011, we couldn't create with its perfection, so we're adjusting it now, but I consider it normal and natural. I can say that since 2011, what is happening in this system has been pointing in the same direction. There are very few movements that we can sense that, well, maybe something was wrong, and then we'll make a backward correction. A little bit of it is in this right now, and I'm obviously talking about that, too. There is no wise legislator who immediately hits what needs to be done. Such a large system should be adapted if we already have the experience to do so. So much for earlier organizational movements. What is now marked in this law as organizational movement is only one thing. County district offices are closing down. By doing so, we said that the county districts were quasi-special and had different powers than the other districts. We'll take this back, if you like, to the county center, the government center, where you belong, by the way. We are talking about procedures that require special expertise, few of them a year in the given county square, so it is unnecessary to relocate them to every district office. They should be at the government office. From the citizen's point of view, it doesn't really matter whether these matters are handled in the settlement of the county seat or in the government office itself, because they are in the same settlement. But from an organizational point of view, this proposal is appropriate, which is ahead of us, in order to put these issues into the role of the Government Office. Procedural issues. Without going into the details of a procedure, it is necessary to assess the change of perspective that is not formulated in this law, but has already been found, which only strengthens these processes. Mr Secretary of State also spoke about this. Instead of licensing, let us go more and more, where reasonable, towards procedures where the citizen, the individual, the entrepreneur only has to notify. Words have weight. The old state is reflected in the fact that I allow or forbid everything with six seals. Or I trust the law-abiding citizen, and I'm satisfied that he can start his act by announcing to the office the line of action he's going to start. Of course, the state has the opportunity, and they must be checked, but yet, a more flexible, if you like, a more cultured, more resolved procedural order is strengthened by this bill. I just want to talk about two issues that the press picked up. One of the things that may have been less appreciated is where should the infractions be settled? This is a type of question. At the time when the government offices were set up, we found that as many notaries, as many law enforcement authorities, but there were cases like this in the government's predecessor organizations, as well as in the police. Thus, the public administration or several actors in the public administration acted as an infringement authority. Even when the government offices were set up, instead of the notary, these powers were transferred to the government office. In very few places we have experienced the problem that Csaba Gyüre here raises, that if the powers move, the infrastructure for the powers moves, if not for property, but for use. 999 times out of a thousand cases could be agreed with the municipalities without any problems. I think it will be no different now, because the previous practice is being revived by this law. He's taking the misdemeanor to a place, to another government institution, to the police, and that's okay. I, too, think that the fact that the police have this case in themselves, they will treat it with one voice, and perhaps they will take it a little more seriously from the citizen's side. If I do something illegal and the police get in trouble with me, it may have more effect or a little more deterrent than a civilian official does. So I don't see any problem with that. That's not what the press picked up. That's what he thought was right. The press picked up the construction administration, because when we started here, we came up with different solutions. We can talk about this completely openly, in our faction we talked about these issues in the past. Even when the case of the construction administration was in question, the original concept was that it was a government authority. The municipality regulates, establishes its own regulation, lays down basic questions in this regulation, does local legislation, and the practical application of local legislation is already an administrative task in a case of construction administration and licensing. We wanted this to go to the government office in the first place. The mayors were still in Parliament, and there is obviously a debate at this time. Then we did the half-solution of simplifying the larger settlements in major, larger settlements into the settlements of the district, otherwise all the districts of the capital, plus those powers remained at the level of the capital. In other words, this authority has been removed from the majority of the local government notaries, and in the case of those in a stronger position, we have left it there. This compromise has been reached. Obviously, this is not particularly acceptable, which is why the legislator, the Secretary of State, is here proposing, as a representative of the government, that we complete this process that started then, and that the regulation should remain with the local authorities, and that the implementation of the relevant acts should come into the system of government offices. I think this is an acceptable step and it does not take any powers away from the municipalities. There will be a unified approach to implementation, and not as many municipal units, so many types of thinking and implementation. The next issue is redress. And here, I share in part the thinking that Csaba Gyüre has raised, because what the congressman has said is all to be considered and raised. So far, it has been the practice to seek redress for a decision taken at the lower level of public administration in a higher-level administration unit. Now we are saying that we are going to make this decision system the same, and that the court forum system is already in place against the decision taken at district level. The Secretary of State also said in his expo that this was obviously a matter of discretion. They looked at how this system worked for the Austrians. After temporary difficulties, the Austrians set up the system. I hope so, too, but I also think, from the citizen's point of view, that if the district office has made its decision and I want to protest against it, it is easier for me to simply appeal against such a decision within the administration system. However, it must also be seen that the decision remains within the public administration. So if I'm looking at principles of law and I'm trying to bring a lot of integrity into this procedure, I'm saying that in an independent court, if you like, there's got to be a guarantee for a citizen who, for some reason, wouldn't want to trust the administration's decision-making system. It is more difficult to use the form of redress for the reasons that you have said, but I think you can provide an additional guarantee that the institution which is independent of the state will deal with these issues. [[15.10]] Therefore, I think that there is a benefit to this. It is not yet a question of the law to be negotiated, but I am bringing it here, because it is important that, given, among other things, the enormous opposition of opposition representatives, which has also taken place on a European scale, I refer to their entire action against administrative jurisdiction, which was completely unjustified, see the decisions of the Venice Commission, but the government is putting this matter aside and saying that it is okay, not only does it create the administrative supreme court, but it also sets up or integrates the current system of administrative courts into the ordinary court system, if we are already on this path, I approve this step. Here, the way to appeal, I am protesting the district office as a client against the decision, I am about to turn to the administrative courts, which, I think, are concentrated in eight courts, in larger cities, which, of course, will be part of the ordinary court, and I will go to the Curia at second instance. I think we're going to create a system that's clean, that's beyond question, and that's what we intend to do. Csaba Gyure said that we moved this system many times. I don't think we moved him a lot. I have been measuring the world since 2011, and once again, we are talking about the issue of the most important players in the Hungarian administration system. Clients meet this system. The Ministry world is important here in Budapest, but the client does not go to the Ministry, but to these government offices, to these district offices, to the government windows, and so on and so forth. If there is confidence in the functioning of these procedures, because the procedures are simple and transparent, because redress is guaranteed in these procedures, then the state works well; the citizens will repay it. Then a service provider is the state that wasn't a service provider yesterday. I think that these steps, which have been formulated in this law, are all going in this direction, so this is to be supported, and the KDNP fraction will also support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-21-10	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position, MEPs Dezső Ibelievé and Sándor Szabó. First, I give the floor to Mr. Reliable. Here you go.
u2019-11-21-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman! Mr. Secretary. If we look at what we are talking about, we are talking about simplifying the operation of the metropolitan and county government offices. I looked into the objectives of this in the previous period. The aim is a satisfied citizen, and the instrument is an efficient, unified and integrated institution, which achieves a more efficient and simpler administration with uniform professional expectations. This was supplemented orally by both the Secretary of State and the Congresswoman. I think they told this story flawlessly, and I think they'd take an A from Magyary. But my job is to look at the other end of this story. The one that hasn't been mentioned before is the client. You have to look at the other end. I approached him from there, and I think I see this story a little differently there. You promised to be simpler, faster, more accessible and cheaper. It didn't turn out to be anything. Your system isn't faster, it's not more accessible, but it's more expensive. According to the citizens I met, this is mainly about my constituency, and I have ties to Dunakeszi, but this is your constituency, where I collected information about the operation of this administration system. deserves to be rated. They basically said that you can't provide what you've touched is a failure. At the same time, they remembered that, as long as it worked for municipalities, it was a significantly more customer-friendly system. I can say of my own area of operation that we measured 86 percent customer satisfaction during that period, and the administrators at that time considered the task to be their own and the occupation with the citizens. They were obviously committed to the population. That's a key phrase. That's not true today. This is the system that you've destroyed, and instead, this nightmare. As a synonym for the government office, I don't dare say what they're talking about, but I wouldn't be proud of this system they've developed. It has also been stated that those responsible for this function are unfit for this task, and their performance is shameful. But now let us look at this specific legislation, because that is what we are discussing. He writes about simplification. In my view, this is not simply a simplification, but it is essentially the elimination of countless groups of cases and cases and the deployment of them to other bodies. The reason is clear that there is a chronic long-term shortage of staff. I think we should consider that no one wants to work for you. What is the reason for this? This results in a significant overload, increasing waiting time, and reducing the workload because they are unable to cope with the burden of the case. The problem is, we're getting to the point where dangerous proposals are being made today. That's what's written in this material. For example, providers of child protection services do not need to register their operations, they will check them less frequently than before. It's not about this kind of Himihumic audit, it's about checking their legality and professionalism, it's gonna be twice as low as it used to be. Child protection In today's critical state, I'm sure it's not exaggerating, believe me. It's life-threatening. Only health pest control activities, food chain safety, veterinary procedures, are subject to notification. I think it's at least an opinion. I read in the paper yesterday that cockroaches were killed, but children were killed in Timisoara. Well, we're getting there, too. So it's at least an opinionary one. If there is an abuse in the cases mentioned above, the potential damage is unpredictable. What else does this plan do? Once again, the disabled. Rehabilitation plans are being deleted. I was thinking about what happened to your sublime goals, your return to work, your complex rehabilitation. By the way, this is a good example of how thoughtful their system has been. Then I wondered how many more times they'd kick into these absolutely vulnerable people. The following is such a topic that the material deals with: complaints and announcements of public interest are provided that they can end the matter with a subjective decision practically without action. I am sure, by the way, that this is the way to reduce the scope of the case, the case file, but I am also sure it is an opportunity for abuse, and it is more serious that this means emptying the right to complain. The measures that have been taken so far can in practice be applied to some principle and professionalism, but it is contrary to the removal of the powers of the building authority from the municipalities. It's completely incomprehensible. It doesn't fit into this system. So far, we've been talking about simplification, reduction of the workload, and now we're giving you an extra task. You don't understand until you think about the reason for that. This is clearly a political decision. After the lost municipal elections, it was done, done, or planned for individual and individual interests. Once again, they undertake to destroy a functioning system, not simply. It is unprecedented in the history of the Hungarian government that everything is taken from the municipalities, literally, chair, room, engineer. I am suggesting that the government office is a clearly alarming vision for those working in this area. By the time we reach this deadline in March, I wouldn't be surprised if you had a piece of coworker to hand over to you. They're terrified that this mission will go to the government office. I'd like to ask you a few questions, and then after that, my colleague would like to talk about this construction issue later. Who will have reliable local knowledge and a strong background for operation? Who will ensure that local municipal and development interests prevail? In English, who will represent the interests of the people who live there? With this highly centralised system, you will ultimately face the people and the people who live there. Thank you very much for your attention so far, I will have a colleague, Sándor Szabó, who will continue. [[15.20]]
u2019-11-21-12	Thank you very much. Congressman Szabó, please.
u2019-11-21-13	Ladies and gentlemen, Looking at the draft law and the proposal in its unity, of course, it is a very good effort and a very good intention, which Mr Secretary of State has said in terms of simplifying the administration of tasks in government offices for the population and influencing the daily life of the population. This is absolutely to be appreciated, because this may be a good direction, but that this ambition can actually be achieved, otherwise we will see it in the future. We have seen that since the establishment of government offices, and even during the time of Minister Lazarus, it has always been said that a reduction in bureaucracy and the simplification of the operation of government offices have been achieved, so much of this has not been so very perceived. Now here is a bigger, more comprehensive proposal that affects the daily functioning of county government offices, and if, by the way, what you said by the way, the Secretary of State were to be implemented, I would say that it could be a good direction, only our experience and unfortunately the operation so far do not justify this. In the voice of praise, for example, what my fellow Member Gyüre said about the amendment in the field of public health care or in the field of agricultural land, I would just like to say once again that I would like to see that there is an improvement in the level of the citizen, too. In particular, I would like to talk about the process of building efficiency, in terms of how and how local governments are being dismantled, we are continuing to deal with this week or the second week. While we, by the way, in these benches with our fellow Members, obviously want resources for the municipalities, and we had a proposal this week on this, we perceive from you that the rights of the municipalities, seeing as they have taken full account of the procedural matters of construction and the taking of the property, even if the property is not lost, will only be transferred free of charge, even if the rights of the municipalities are significantly impaired. Indeed, yesterday we discussed the section on local Community transport, where we also find that further tightening is visible in the operation of the municipalities. Returning to the construction procedures, construction-related tasks cover a wide spectrum of public administration, typically a request, a decision of a single professional question, ranging from the authorisation procedure to the construction process, until the construction, the proper use of the building, later use, and this is a fundamental expectation, there is nothing wrong with that. The task is Etv. it also covers clearly identifiable subjects. On the one hand, what must surely be met is legality, and on the other hand, the requirement of professionalism, which appears as a criterion. Under the current legislation, the legality is primarily the construction sector, while the professionalism can be seen as a parallel to the construction supervision activity. Within the framework of the current legislation, we see that the power to authorise construction is primarily to clarify the issues of legality, while, in the exercise of building supervision, practical, professional issues are highlighted, so that the knowledge material to be acquired in this way provides an authority with significantly more transparent, usable and faster, more efficient and professional tasks, as a result of the acquisition of experience and procedural techniques of the same nature. Participants in official procedures at professional level are also largely separated. While the licensing process requires close working relations with the architects' chambers and the administrative authorities involved in the procedures, otherwise the actors in the building control procedures can meet mainly the contractors, the professional chambers, the professional interests groups, so the two procedures are very well separated from each other. Due to differences in professional orientation, authorities appearing as specialties in certain fields can also provide more effective assistance to higher-level responsibilities related to construction, such as building authorities' experience in enforcing legality, to assist both central and local legislation. If, by the way, I look at the above specifically on the construction procedures, it is clear that well-segregated administrative tasks also warrant separation at institutional level, because in fact it would be possible to ensure that the potential momentary staff problems of the public authorities do not result in an internal task grouping or broadening of tasks that would in the long term be at the expense of efficiency or professionalism. Taking into account the overall high level of fluctuations in the field, it would be possible to find more effective labour within a small field than in the whole of the global area. Another problem for us is the further centralisation of the construction tasks that have been centralised with the municipal notaries of the district seat, which also reduces the number of construction authorities at county level. Nor is it negligible that the general public should take a much smaller distance to the authorities in order to have a personal relationship with the authority. If we look at its costs, it would be more important and beneficial for the general public if they didn't have to go to county government offices, but to take care of their affairs with local authorities. Moreover, it is also possible to see that the electronic system put in place on 1 January 2013 cannot replace the personal communication between the authority and the client, many of the customers are laymen, it is necessary for them to interpret the legislation, the professional terms, and to give them a clear answer to their questions. So in this respect, we see no reason why the construction procedures should go to government offices, as this task can be solved in its entirety at local level, but we perceive a more serious problem in the fact that we continue to see the local governments being deprived of their rights and the local government being undermined. Although, as I said at the beginning, there are good intentions regarding the operation of county government offices, but precisely because it is a salad law, and once again the municipalities are in the forefront, where it actually involves looting the law, we cannot support it. Thank you.
u2019-11-21-14	Thank you very much. The leading speaker of the Democratic Coalition, Mr László Hajdu, is next. Here you go, Congressman. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]]
u2019-11-21-15	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. In front of me, more people have said the same thing that I would have done, and I don't want to repeat it, and I'm coming from another side. The proposed legislation states that this particular law will serve customers, bring them closer to the state and the services will improve. This 103 paragraph, which is set out here in conjunction with the annexes and many things, amends a lot of things, even the Fundamental Law is amended in this context. This proposal is dealt with in my interpretation, and this is a question to the Secretary of State that, in our case, the government office, the district government office, was by buying the office building of the large company in the district at the time, and we prepared it. It was hard for us to fit, and we thought we'd move there, and the government office moved into this building. So it's a good thing for us that the clients just cross the street, and the anarchy continues to go there because it was the municipality, and then they ask where to deal with it, and if, say, the doorman asks, the doorman sends it upstairs, and then they send it back. So I have to say that there's a ball game going on with clients right now, because they can't learn that there's a government office on one side of the street, and there's a local government on the other side. This does not at the moment provide any assistance to clients in terms of government administration or government administration in terms of briefing. In fact, since the government office doesn't have a leader to talk to, but the local government does, because we do host hours, the representatives of the local government host hours, the mayor hosts a reception hour, the notary hosts a reception hour, and the client in the government office doesn't get to meet such reception hours. [[15.30]] So, not only does the client get closer to his case, especially locally, not to handle his own case, but he comes to the municipal reception hours or to the Parliamentary representatives' or the mayor's reception hours, he pours his soul out there, and then we tell him to go to the other side. And there it turns out that there's a schedule for two to three weeks, like the GP at the outpatient clinic, that there's a schedule. This is a very special situation, because at the time when the government office was established, no one thought it was possible to make an appointment, and today it is on the schedule. Now what is being relocated here, partially relocated from the municipalities, I fully agree with that, and I do not want to repeat that. By the way, there is something good that the Secretary of State pointed out, such as public medicine, it cannot be denied that raising it from two to four years or raising it from one to two is a good thing, because there is less time to make an appointment at the government office. And there, what the Secretary of State has listed, those, I can say, are perhaps positive transactions in this. At the same time, the conversion of the annual XX. Law, therefore, the law governing tasks and powers, is that, in fact, it could be repealed, because the conditions have changed so much. And the divided administration with this law... I mean, there is a government office, and unlike it, there is a government office, and in the conflict between the two, not only does the client have a problem with orientation, but in many cases office workers also look for their own supervisor, head of department, head of department or deputy mayor, or mayor, to see how this is handled. Everyone is constantly interpreting legislation. Right now, behind paragraph 103, there are a lot of government orders, and I don't know what kind of executive instructions have to be published. According to the Secretary of State, a thousand pages of such legislation will need to be studied in order for the offices to re-learn this profession, and this has been ongoing since the establishment of government offices. I'd like to warn you of some danger zones. One such danger zone concerns bankruptcy and mortgage, bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings under Article 8 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. It's in the section, by the way. You're only required to report it to the liquidator. I see a very high risk of this because it goes on to say that there is no need to inform the environmental and nature protection authorities, although there is usually huge pollution behind such bankruptcy and liquidation firms. Previously, the environmental authority and the nature conservation authority had to be informed in such a case, and now they do not have to, because the whole point of this amendment is that there is no appeal, the court is the possibility of appeal. If he's got a lawyer, and the court's gonna set a trial in a year or two, he might as well be right. But if you can't accept the decision you've made, and you're probably right, even the government department can be wrong... Article 8 I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a very serious threat, and we are also involved in such matters, and this could leave up to a billion dollars in damages in the event of bankruptcy and liquidation, if only a plain announcement. It's done, and it's gone. The other one, I see as such a danger zone the 13th. I do not know if we have amended this Mining Act seven times. He says the pre-notification of the surface search will be terminated. So it's gone. I find this almost unbelievable, and there are such dangers, just think about the amendment of the Mining Act when sewage sludge comes from Croatia and Slovenia. Therefore, if such a notification becomes a mere obligation, or even a requirement, because no prior notification is required, this will cease in the case of surface research in the Mining Act, I consider it dangerous. There are some things to argue about, but I feel it's well-meaning. This is the case of Hungarian citizenship, and I point out this because there are a lot of Asians in our district, because we are all Chinese districts: Asia Center, Polus Center, China Mart, Chinese schools, so there are a lot of Asians, and if such citizenship disputes arise, it also ceases to have the possibility to appeal, it can go to court. I'd like to draw attention to number 17, it was a campaign opportunity, but there's a lot of confusion here. Maybe that's why he came here as a simplification. This law on war care, this government office... doesn't have to make a decision. He probably doesn't have to make a decision because there was a family where one of the families lived in a county town, the government office approved it, and they received the money from the 15th century. He was rejected by the government office in the district, and the third child was also judged, and three children with the offspring had three decisions to justify it, two received it, and one did not receive it on the same paper. I guess that's why it's bothering you, and that's why in the future, you don't have to make a decision about what's going to happen to these wards. But I see an escape from this. Which is 19. The amendment of the Act on the Protection of the Environment, which appears in Section 5 of the Act, is a timed mine. So there is no right of appeal here, there is a smooth announcement, the definition and placing on the market of different substances, products, technologies, environmental systems, and all of this has been authorised to apply, this is only a simple notification requirement in the future. I can't believe this is gonna work out, but it looks like it's being presented. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The Act on the Protection of Nature is amended in the section of the Act, and there is also an activity in Hungarian. When imposing a nature reserve fine, it provides that a nature reserve fine can only be imposed on the owner. Yes, the fact is that if we consider the Hungarian ownership, there is compensation and there is a share owner. Share-owner lands are undivided in common. The undivided joint can have between 600 and 800 undivided joint owners, with the exception of the fact that they did not cut down the grass, for example, and there is illegal garbage on the 15-acre land, but it may have heirs in Australia, America, Europe or all over the world, the owner if he can be notified and the fine imposed on him... In Hungarian, a fine cannot be imposed in this place, because they simply do not know their address, the land register itself does not know it. I would like to draw your attention here to the need to clarify this, because Hungarian ownership does not allow this. I do not want to mention that even the Nuclear Power Act will be amended by the 27th. Paragraph 5. There is a major modification affecting local governments that I do not want to go through all 100, just where we feel that there is a problem, this is the name of the field guard service or not of field service elsewhere. [[15.40]] This will go to the National Chamber of Agricultural Economics, but this has a state normative, this field service, and the municipalities will be able to receive 100% by association. Partnerships can be ruined here. The field service is not a toy, for example, in Budapest we are members of an outskirts association, where previously it was also stipulated that a agglomeration settlement cannot be attached to it, so in the agglomeration we know that there is another association. Do we still get the normative, or does that mean quitting the field guard service and firing the field guards? 'Cause then we're gonna have major severance payments and asset cancellations, 'cause we can't do this without normative. I don't know what level you've been able to address this, but it's a very useful activity, it's important, but without a normative, there's no municipality that will look after other people's land, like I said, with 100% of our property being protected. I would like to highlight one more, and that is 77. §, when the paragraph states that the primary government approval of a 100% municipal-owned company generating debt, its borrowing in Hungarian, if it is not a 100 percent property, but let's say there is a 20 percent foreign ownership in it, in which case I do not know how it will be possible to obtain credit so far with a government contribution, it does not explain how this will work for the future. This is primarily a problem in Budapest, in Budapest there are local government-owned companies with billionaire assets and billions of revenues, let's say, the Metropolitan Csatornation Works, to be specific, in which there are 20 or 25 percent European, I don't know, German or French property, then in this case what it looks like. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Sorry, my time is up. With these anomalies and uncertainties, we regard this law as a mine so timed that the Democratic Coalition cannot support it. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]]
u2019-11-21-16	Thank you very much. Congressman Antal Csárdi, lead speaker of the LMP, please.
u2019-11-21-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I think, like so many times, if you bring in a salad law of this size, it's what we're dealing with. The terrible amount of law that is being amended in a salad law, a part of it, sometimes not even a small part, contains extremely forward-looking and correct changes, but by the time we go through all the amendments, they will always turn up how did my fellow Member put it? Timed mines. They always turn up. And indeed, I think that the biggest problem of this bill is the clear, conscious intention of decommissioning the local government. And I don't think that's right. The big question is, if this was not the result on October 13th, would this bill be here before us or in this form before us? Service state, short deadline, customer friendly administration, county, district government offices sound so nice. The only problem is that in the process of leading Mr. Secretary of State, the point was not given a strong enough voice. That's my personal opinion. Government administration is gradually expanding in the area of government administration, and the area that is controlled locally by a democratically elected body is becoming less and less controlled by municipal control over the administration. That's what I'm talking about when I'm talking about decommissioning the municipality. There are fewer and fewer problems for the municipalities, the more they try to centralize them, the more the municipalities decide their business over their heads. And instead of doing this, and I don't know, Mr. Secretary of State was here yesterday, we had a very long discussion about the wonderful mysteries of the task financing, so instead of helping us with this task, or changing speeds, the government is practically bringing us, I don't know, a salad law. Today's situation is that people are becoming more and more difficult to practice in handling their affairs. Under the slogan of bureaucracy reduction, the number of officials actually working was reduced. Due to earlier shortened deadlines or physical incapacity, these deadlines have not been implemented or have already been lifted again, and I have a specific example of this. For example, the land office case, where the land office originally held a 15 - day deadline. Today, the same deadline is 60 days, but unfortunately, this 60 days cannot be kept by the land office. When I think about it, it is a very big question whether it is the right direction, and my personal opinion, and LMP's position is that continuous, inadequately thought-out centralisation is not the right direction. But it's worth going on, because when we talk about emptying the local government, here's the next item. I'm not saying it's such a crazy big deal, but the transfer of malpractice to the police is, let's face it, it's drawing funds from the authorities again. I do not say that the municipalities are going to collapse, they are going bankrupt, they are not going to do so, but even though these municipalities are slowly underfunded, they can sense the revenues that have been sucked up little by little. I would add that this is not only true of left-wing municipalities, but also of the Metropolitan Municipality, for example. Not the current one, but the one led by István Tarlós. It is worth seeing that in 2014 the Orbán government took over 214 billion HUF from the Municipality of Budapest. This was an extremely right move, and I think it is one of the best decisions the Orbán government has made so far. But let's see that we are there for the last five years, and let me tell you that Gergely Christmas has been sitting in the mayor's seat for a month, but five years later we are there that by the end of the year, the debt of the Municipality of Budapest will reach HUF 120 billion, and if I add the sale of Gergely Főgáz for 40 billion, then it means that the operation of the Municipality of Budapest, together with developments, is virtually HUF minus HUF 160 billion. Five years! In practically five years, 75 percent of the debt taken over by the Orbán government was recovered. It's only five years in a single cycle. I believe that these figures demonstrate sufficiently and plastically that the municipalities are in a very desperate situation today. And here comes the third part of what I want to talk about, this bill, isn't it, this construction authority, basically, is the extension of the first-degree building authority, I can't use a nicer word for that, all along with wealth. [[15.50]] I understand that the municipal assets and the state assets are the same after all, and I listened to it from István Tarlós for four years when we lost a significant part of our schools and health institutions. I understand that it is still in the management and ownership of the state, and the rest remains, but let's face it, it is becoming increasingly apparent that, through the withdrawal of tasks, the government virtually envisages a puppet government system. What does it mean to lose the authority of the municipality, for example, in my constituency, the municipality of Buda first the second and then the first building authority? The Treasury Department figured he'd like to move to the Castle. They envied the Prime Minister's wonderful residence and would like to move into the property designed by Sándor Fellner next to the Church of Matthias, which was restored in 1962 after the Second World War in such a way that the otherwise highly decorated towers were left behind and simplified. By the way, the profession took this change very positively, because it was very good for the cityscape. He allowed the sight and silhouette of the Matthias Church to dominate the cityscape at the scene. Compared to this, the Ministry of Finance is trying to restore this extremely fancy pre-World War II state, and the municipality of Buda has no say in it. We hope, we can hope, but we really don't have authority. Because what does it mean if the government of Buda loses its first-degree building authority? A first-degree building permit may be obtained only after a city-view procedure and if the municipality considers that the real estate, the planned property, cannot be incorporated into the city-view, then it will not receive a first-degree building permit. If this is transferred to the government office, this possibility will cease for district or municipal authorities. Let's not confuse, Mr. Secretary, the city-view process with the CST regulation, with the settlement plan. I understand that the settlement plan, the district settlement policy, stays with the municipality, but the cityscape process is different. I'm sure you know that, Mr. Secretary. I think it can basically determine the image of a city. And in a settlement like Budavar, the I. district, or the V. district downtown, where we find our greatest treasures, which is not a tourist destination by chance, I think we cannot afford this. Tamás Nagy, mayor of Fidesz, has also been extremely careful in the matters that I have been able to follow. He has always made sure that this cityscape process takes into account the cityscape, the appearance of the Castle and the needs and goals of the people there. If this city-view procedure is removed as a condition for obtaining a first-degree building permit, then there is practically nothing left for those living there but to appeal a building permit. Secretary of State, let's look at this with a little practical eyes. The fact is that society does not necessarily have the legal knowledge, experience, relationship system that can effectively combat, for example, billion-dollar developers. I think if we leave the people who live there alone, it's a loss we won't be able to make up for. The city-view process through the municipality was able to provide an automatic, natural protection for those living there. It is totally unacceptable that this system is practically destroyed. I have a sacred belief that the aim is to empty the contents of the municipalities, so the May Other in Politics is certain that it will not support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-21-18	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No two-minute speeches were submitted, no one had asked for a pre-notification and no one had asked for a normal speech. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary, but you don't have to ask, because he's already standing up and giving his opinion. Here you go.
u2019-11-21-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, we are talking about a major piece of legislation that continues the way and I say this in general to the issues raised, that the regime for the transformation of public administration has indeed started from 2010 onwards, and the direction is quite clear. It is about the establishment of a service state, which must take place through a one-stop shop and a transparent organisational structure, and only intervene in cases where it is absolutely necessary to intervene. The question raised by Csaba Gyüre, who gave examples abroad, is the question of waiting times. I myself have looked around in this regard at what is the real situation here, and it is not necessary to go far, only to neighbouring Austria. The steering window system that is and has been established in Hungary is completely unique. Such a system is almost nowhere in Europe, such quality of service does not exist at government level, with such a uniform image and such a way of serving. In Austria, the Austrian system, which is a little more complicated than our system, is at such a level that federal states also have separate procedures, but if someone wants to have a passport made there, the average waiting time is one hour in Austria, Vienna. You have to wait an hour to get a passport. This average waiting time in Hungary is less than 15 minutes. That's the difference in our system. Exactly the Viennese main notary came to Budapest to see the government window system, so that they could create a similar system in Austria themselves. In this regard, the situation was reversed, and we have established a system that is a well-functioning system in Hungary today. Cases have been raised which are included in this legislation individually. I'll tell you the secret that when we made this legislation, I went through every single case myself, so I went through all seven hundred cases, and we talked about the impact these cases have on citizens, and why it is worth transforming these cases or leading them out in order to really have a simpler and better administration. I would like to refer here to the procedure for reporting, which is a multi-faceted procedure. Although I referred to it in my expo, it may not have been clear enough that if we were to establish a notification procedure, this notification procedure does not mean that someone should announce an activity and start to carry on their activities immediately the next day, but that there is a period of 30 days and only at the end of 30 days can begin to continue its activities, precisely in order that if the State has to take a decision on that activity, 30 days may be available to take a decision. Therefore, the level of protection should not be reduced in any way, but it must not be accompanied by an act, and the citizen should clearly see that if I know that I will start something in 30 days' time, then if I announce it now, then in 30 days' time, if I do not want to do something that does not comply with the law, I can definitely start it. That is what I am talking about when I say that trust must be strengthened in this regard, so let us trust citizens to continue their activities legally, but never to reduce the level of protection. So let's establish procedures where state control is still involved and can work. [[16.00]] That's 54. He referred to the provisions of the legislation. We are talking about another matter, the announcement of the winding-up of labour market organisations. In this context, there is a register that is no longer used for anything, so it is not an existing register. It's an administrative act, it's being pulled out in the legislation. Construction has been mentioned several times. I'd like to remember one or two important things here. As a matter of authority, construction has never been a municipal authority. So this wasn't a municipal authority case. By the way, our MSZP fellow Member, who is no longer in the room, has used the concept correctly, although he was not talking about an administrative authority case, because it has always been an administrative authority matter. That is why I spoke about the fact that this has led to a strange and double situation earlier, because we had an office that had taken state decisions, decided on state authority matters, and, by the way, they were indeed a body belonging to the State, but they did not belong to the State. It is therefore right that the municipal authorities should be dealt with by the municipalities and the State should handle matters of a state nature. My fellow Member, Antal Csárdi, suggested that the municipalities would no longer have the opportunity to intervene. Well, the municipal opinion procedure remains, so there is no difference in this respect, it will continue, only where the official procedure is transferred. The municipality has never had a say in how the administrative procedure takes place before. If that was the case, then it was a problem if the mayor interfered with the authority case, then it was implemented by the Criminal Code 305. The facts set out in Article 305 of the Rules of Procedure, and this is the milder case, because in some cases, in addition to the abuse of office, Article 305 applies. § contains this, even influence dealing can take place. So you can't interfere with an administrative procedure. The rules of the administrative procedure are partly drawn up by the State. It's a law, Étv. , OTS, local regulations, official procedure. The administrative procedure is separate from everything, and this is how the procedure is carried out as a state task. It was a state task before, and in this regard, his professional boss, the manager of the notary, was not the mayor, but the government office gave him his position on the unity of law when it came to such matters. I am pointing out the division of rights because the problem with the elimination of the second degree is not what you mentioned, that you may be wasting time for some reason, that you should go to court or that you would have fewer guarantees. The guarantee effect is even stronger if the court is two-degree, while the administrative decision is one-degree, enforceable. Of course, the court has the right to suspend enforcement and to proceed with court proceedings, but a quick decision is always in the interest of the citizen. I said the numbers in 28 million cases, 50,000 appeals, so that it is clear from the numbers that waiting for an appeal deadline is unnecessary in most cases, because there has been a small appeal of 50 thousand out of 28 million, which justifies converting this system into a single system. What arises as a problem, and this may arise as a matter of principle, is the role of the second degree of unity of law. This is what we had to think about when we created this legislation, because in every second-degree procedure there is a so-called unity of rights. When the second degree decides at least at county level, the decision at county level usually affects local bodies, i.e. district bodies in this respect, and the districts will apply uniform case-law. How can this be solved if there is a one-degree procedure? Obviously, this forum must be established. We would now like to make a change in our organisation because of this, that we would like to give the Director-General's meeting, the meeting of the professional managers of the county offices, a right to issue recommendations on professional matters, which will strengthen national legal unification in the system of public administration. So I see the problem on this side rather than the fact that it's bad for the citizens. This will be good for citizens as a whole and will help their activities. At the mayor's office in the municipalities, in previous cases, but there are still some places to stress, in some places construction can be done. In simpler cases, the notary building authority acts as a building authority, and in more complex, complex cases, government offices act. That's what it looks like today. How will this work later? It is not the case now that it would work for all municipalities. There are a total of 198 places in Hungary where there is a notary construction authority, so there is no constructional task for every notary. In fact, it is a technical issue, and also a question of legal theory, of law-dogmatics, where the state performs this task: it creates a clean system, it creates public tasks, if it already has an institutional system, it performs it there, or it does so with another body. In my expo, I suggested that in some cases it might be justified for the State to outsource certain activities from its system. But this is only justified if it means a matter involving a narrow group of professions or a narrow social group, because there is the knowledge, the knowledge to which these tasks can be transferred. For example, professional chambers. For my part, I think it is good for Chambers and organisations of different types or types to be given as much powers and tasks as possible, because it is good for the group of professionals to decide on their own matters in that group of professions if it has no wider social impact, i.e. its social impact beyond the group of professions. Then it is worth bringing this activity to the state, as there may be a conflict of interest between the professional group and the rest of society. This is the logic of thinking that we have tried to move some activities to various chambers or, for example, the Association of Naturewalkers on tourist trips. I was talking about the remedy. Our gullible fellow Member Dezső did not say very good things about our system of government offices. Allow me, fellow Members, to look at what this looks like now in the government window system. If you want to get an ID card from one of the government windows in the area, I see the latest data, it's 4:00, now the government offices in the area are not open, the waiting time was between 15 and 17 minutes at the 12 government offices in the area. I was just looking at this when you said your speech. So the waiting time in this place today was between 10 and 20 minutes, and I can tell you this for sure, and in many places less than 10 minutes. So the claim that the steering window system is malfunctioning is simply not true. Let us not insult, my fellow Member, the 36,000 people who work in this system, and let us not say that these people are doing their job badly. These people do their job conscientiously and well. And it is no coincidence that we relied on them when we drew up this package of proposals. We've been looking for them, we've been meeting with government agents, we've brought in professional people who actually dealt with cases, and we've been going through business to see where people's lives can be simplified and improved. [[16.10]] And that's what you see coming back now, and it's part of a process. It is part of a process, a process that has created unification in the various office forests, which was before. There's a general government agency that handles government affairs, that's the government administration system. [[The gullible Dezso intervenes.]] And indeed, it is a service system, it must provide a two-way service. The official services of a country, a state, should be grouped into one place. It provides these services in two directions. It extends it to citizens, businesses on one side and provides it to professional managers, as it carries out official activities under their professional direction. So this is the logic of such a system, and it is precisely that interoperability between these offices should be one office, a one-stop shop, and no need to run from office to office. This is now being done in the system of government offices, since the system of office is unified. I think that this has been a major step in the past, and in the next period, we have taken even more or more steps to strengthen the service state. And indeed, I would also like to point out in your comment that the municipalities have never had the power to build, nor have they. This was a public function, and it is not true that the municipality could have intervened in the constructional matters. [[Dezső gullible pointing to the right: the colleague told me about it...]] That's not true! So you shouldn't interfere with construction matters. There must be no policy involved in the matter of the authorities, so there is no such thing as a matter of authority, let's say, someone walks in and asks for a reception clock, referring to the previous speech, because it is an official matter. We have the rules, we have the procedure in this regard, and the authority has to carry it out, and it has to make its decision in accordance with the legislation. That's not something you have to talk about from the outside. It is a matter of the state's organisation that, by the way, it groups its own tasks and its own activities. He referred to the fact that the result of the municipal elections could have prompted the government to take such steps. However, I would like to draw your attention to some data, and let us just review the election results of the county authorities. If you look at the county municipalities, 414 county council representatives have been elected in Hungary, and your party has acquired 22 seats in total. So 22 out of 414, 5,31 percent, and by the way, the Fidesz-KDNP 62.31, and the data from the capital are in this, by the way. [[The gullible Dezso intervenes.]] So I would like to draw your attention to any claim that says something would have changed here... no! Fidesz-KDNP also won this election at county level. [[Impressive Dezső keeps interrupting.]] The strongest party in Budapest, of course, is the Fidesz-KDNP. So when such claims are made, when most of the municipalities belong to Fidesz-KDNP, do you just think that there is a political will that would mean that we want to weaken our own political camp? Local government is a strong concept. The rights of local governments are strong, and this right must be maintained. From an official point of view, the municipalities should direct, refrain from interfering, only direct, create a right in this respect, and ensure that it operates and operates accordingly. It is therefore important that the State and the municipality are separated from each other in this respect and that such a distinction can also be made with regard to the tasks of the authorities. In this respect, the construction authority has already been analysed, and there have been a few specific points from my fellow Member Hajdu, taking as an example one or two, which is the obligation to notify the liquidator. It is precisely a matter of clarifying the responsibilities of who has to do what, so that it is not a situation where no one announces something, because two people have to do it. Such an obligation is, by the way, imposed on the liquidator and should be maintained in order to make it clear who would have to make this type of notification. The so-called pre-research procedure does not exist in Hungary today. The reason why this type of procedure is terminated is that this type of activity is usually included in the normal authorisation procedure during the authorisation procedure and it is practice that in the normal authorisation procedure there is also a permit for pre-research and that such a pre-research permit is not in practice requested. Therefore, this is the elimination of a type of procedure that is not in practice, so it is not applied because there is no such application for a licence. By the way, the system of agriculture remains, and there it is a restructuring of its financing, so that the normative material arrives through whom, by the way, and the agricultural chamber will have a role in this regard. When you asked about the difference between notification and authorisation, on the one hand, I referred to what type of activity the notification meant, so it does not mean that total control is released. On the other hand, in the paragraph referred to by you, when the application authorisation is included, there is also the possibility to retain the authorisation, and this is a general authorisation, which could then be followed by legislation, but this alone does not give rise to the possibility of carrying out an activity in a notification procedure that would be a threat to the environment. I think it is important to note this because maintaining the level of protection is the most important thing in relation to the environment. This is also our constitutional obligation to maintain it if we have raised the level of protection in this respect. This is something that we also hold to, and even the level of protection, in many cases even in this legislation, and my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre referred to, and we would like to raise it, because we consider it important to protect our natural environment in this respect and to put these protection tasks in place. I have already referred to my colleague, Antal Csárdi, as an answer to what the question of building efficiency means. I would just like to refer to one thing, because he made a remark about the land administration that the land administration system was a system that was created in the time of Mary Theresa, so its foundations were created at that time. Since the 1700s there has been this type of land administration system in Hungary, which is the same as that of other countries, i.e. Austria, Czech Republic, Slovakia, the former countries of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. What I would like to emphasise here is that we are in a major change here. Soon you will see, and there will be a new concept of the land administration system, which will mean a major renewal of the land administration system. This means that we would like to create a system based on electronic records and electronic registration procedures and the application of artificial intelligence within two years, which will result in the fact that if, in two years' time, they want to walk into a law firm and buy an apartment, they will conclude the sales contract, and by the time they walk out of the law firm, property ownership will be registered in the real estate register. [[The intervention of Dr. László György Lukács.]] Such a system is under construction now. This can be resolved, and then we will have a debate about it someday. [[Dr. László György Lu-kács: It will be worth it!]] because the Real Estate Register Act will also be a new law in this regard. The automatic decision-making process, which is now possible, can also be included in this circle. I think that the renewal of that system is indeed a very important task, and a task that, if we can achieve, there is no real estate registration system in Europe that we would like to establish on this basis, so a high level of real estate registration system, which will be quick and effective. I would also like to highlight efficiency because if someone looks at the system of public administration today, what we need to see is that if we look at the total public administration or regional government as a whole and divide the total cost to the public administration, then a working hour in the public administration will cost taxpayers 40,000 forints today. Obviously, it is worth speeding up automatic systems to make these costs more optimal. Overall, I think that most of the questions have been largely answered, given that, let's say, the same topic has been raised several times, I obviously do not want to repeat myself again. Overall, I think that we are moving towards a system such as a government agency system, which is indeed capable of serving Hungarian people as widely as possible. The system we have now created can do this in many ways, but we must never stop on this path, always monitor our entire administration system, and if we are able to make it better, it is also our duty to make it better. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[16.20]]
u2019-11-21-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it was possible to submit the amendments by 16:00 today, as it is 16:00 to 20 minutes. Dear Parliament, The 2018 CXXV on Government Administration follows a series of steps. Act CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. a general debate on the legislative amendment to the law until closure. Government referral T/8019. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-21-21	Good afternoon. I welcome you all with a lot of love.
u2019-11-21-22	For whom in the morning, for whose day...
u2019-11-21-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Our system is getting up, thank you all very much for your patience. On the way here, I was told that if I wanted to be popular, I'd be brief. I didn't understand, of course, exactly who was thinking, but if you'll allow me, I might do so, because my voice is not exactly suitable for the debate, so I would like to apologize for that.
u2019-11-21-24	It's totally consistent with our condition. [[Defiance.]] So there's no difference, there you go.
u2019-11-21-25	Mr. Vice President, if we match, thank you very much. So we are gathered here today to talk about the law on government administration and the amendment of related laws. CXXV 2018 on Government Administration Law 1 has regulated the rules on government administration and employment relationships in a uniform manner. The new regulation entered into force on 1 January 2019, which introduced so-called job-based staff management; this resulted in a paradigm shift in government human resources management and is the basis for the commitment of the Orbán government to cut red tape since 2010, namely. We think that jobs management is a milestone in the process of cutting red tape. The transitional period lasted until mid-March 2019. In doing so, the government has established the number, classification and number and classification of posts to be filled by other specialised EU and other government administrations. The experience gained in these determination procedures justifies the need for Kit. We should propose to amend the part of the staff management so that we can continue to manage the number of staff that responds better to the practical challenges and move on to the path of cutting red tape. The bill that has just been submitted will allow the government to refrain from placing posts that have not been filled for 6 months in a centralised job pool if this is necessary for the task. As a new option, we would introduce the possibility of a so-called job exchange between government administrations. We would like to reduce the administrative burden on government administrations by not appointing them to a government administration body prior to posting for so-called graduates, but directly to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The bill also contains clarification on the mandatory content of the appointment document, the service of personnel documents, the employment of scholarships, further training, public service disputes, salaries, freedom, recognition, benefits and termination of the legal relationship. With regard to the exemption, I would stress twice that we are experiencing amendments that are favourable to workers, even if the government official is exempt from the obligation to work because of unpaid leave. In addition, the scope of severance payments is extended by two new cases. According to the warranty, family-centric approach of the proposal, due to the introduction of the Grandparent Childcare Fee, this bill creates the possibility for the government official to take unpaid leave for the personal care of his grandson during the period of payment of the childcare fee. We also want to simplify the employment of long-term government officials in posts, and repeal the regulation whereby government officials were not always entitled to service recognition. There is also a second part of the bill, which does not modify Kit., but means related amendments to the law, which means the amendment of 76 pieces of law. The Kit in the first place. This means ensuring its coherence in the legal system and the transfer of new concepts, legal institutions and procedures. Of course, it is never good to have so many legislative proposals amended in a proposal. In this respect, I always agree with similar claims by opposition representatives, but in this case it is necessary, because the law on state officials has been adopted but has not finally entered into force, and thus it is necessary to remove the conceptual systems of the law which has been passed from the legal system. The Kit. In view of its entry into force, the present proposal would also amend the rules on remuneration for public officials of bodies of so-called special status, so that the link is not only with the current bill, but also with the bill for bodies of special status that have subsequently been discussed. We will therefore have time to discuss the rules on public officials of the Constitutional Court, the President's Office of the Republic, MTA, GVH, State Security services and other bodies of so-called special status. In the spirit of rationalisation and reduction of bureaucracy, the bill allows the Prime Minister's Government Office and the Ministries to be set up as a common official organisation, due to the recognition that functional tasks are performed within a very similar division of labour and organizational framework for certain wallets, so it seems to be a rational step to allow the common administration at least at the level of the law, as the municipalities do. According to the bill, the responsibilities of the Independent Police Complaints Board in the context of the investigation of police complaints are taken over by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, who, under the Fundamental Law, is responsible for investigating maladministration and taking related action in relation to fundamental rights. Thus, this cannot be regarded as a system alien solution. We believe that this is an explicit increase in the level of protection of fundamental rights. In addition, the bill removes the regulatory differences between the government service relationship between central government administration and officials of regional government administration, thereby creating a fully unified relationship. The point is, therefore, that this has been the case since then in the central administration and in the territorial administration, for many years now, that although there were similarities in the legal relationship, we have seen different legal relationships. A fully unified administrative service, i.e. a central and territorial service, is established by the current bill. We believe that we have proposed an appropriate and appropriate transitional period for maintaining legal changes. The entry into force was proposed on 1 April 2020. On this basis, I ask the Parliament to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-11-21-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First of all, Mrs. Czunyi will be given the opportunity to Dr. Judit Bertalan, the lead speaker of Fidesz.
u2019-11-21-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. With regard to the bill before us, since, despite the voice of the Secretary of State, he presented the proposal before us in detail, I would like to highlight and repeat a few things. I think that once again, it is true that we are faced with a proposal concerning the central administration, which is in line with the rationalisation of the organisation of public administration discussed at the previous agenda. This proposal specifically refers to the amendment of the Act on Government Administration and of certain laws on government administration, namely, most and most strongly, the relationship between and the related rules for the employment of individual government bodies. [[16.30]] These are practical rules that help government administration to manage posts, the difficult circumstances that make interoperability and employment rules between ministries easier, create new opportunities for those working in government administrations. The exchange of posts between government administrations also reduces or improves the administrative burden on central administrations and government administrations by not having to issue a separate appointment or personnel file for the appointment of the official to the post in some cases; or by introducing uniform rules simplifying the records as well, the bill or amendment proposal before us. I think that perhaps they too, although they seem to be detailed rules, but in the everyday life of government administration and in the system of people's affairs that operates in central government administration, changes supporting administration and supporting administration, documents, appointment documents that also help, speed up administration and, in addition to maintaining the rules on personal affairs, constitute a more favourable condition or more favourable conditions for employees and employees. The other important thing I would like to highlight is that Mr Secretary of State also spoke about it, but I think it is also important that it is also important for those who have legal relations with government officials that, in addition to family-friendly measures and family-support measures, as well as a family-friendly workplace. Therefore, such an employment-enhancing rule is the possibility of introducing a Grandparent Childcare Fee, or the possibility of taking unpaid leave during the period of payment of the Grandparent Childcare Fee, also in this case. There are several simplification rules in the bill. It improves the eligibility for different service recognitions, and, as Mr Secretary of State has said, the amendment of 76 relevant and related legislation now provides a coherent and complex system for all persons employed in central administrative bodies with these corrections, and it is indeed sufficient time and time to put into effect as of 1 April 2020 for both central administrative bodies and administrative bodies dealing with personnel tasks, so that they can introduce these rules in a suitable manner for persons in employment relations. So on behalf of the Fidesz fraction and myself, I call on this House to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-21-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, lead speaker of the Jobbik, please.
u2019-11-21-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I fit in with Mr. Balázs Orbán's voice, I don't have much, but for me, the air conditioner mixes these problems with dust. So, I think I'm in the 40th hour of the last few days in this room. So, T/8019. We have a bill on government administration. I have to say, unlike my custom, I'm not gonna be too good with the question. I'll tell you why I'm not gonna be good. Every government has the right to set up its own government system, the right of its heart. He knows how to perform his government duties most effectively. I think we, as opponents, need to approach this in two directions. One is cost-effectiveness, the other is the efficiency of work itself, which affects the daily lives of citizens. These are the two things we're interested in. In my experience of cost-effectiveness so far, it is not so good because the Prime Minister's Office and its associated institutions, these three teams, take only 1,200 billion each year from the budget, which is too much for me, and we have not yet been able to see the kind of effectiveness or efficiency in it for which it is worth spending so much, but I would stress that this bill is not about that, but I would just like to note it. This proposal amends the law in paragraph 76, paragraph 248. This has made the scope of 34 of the laws that have been submitted in the last week even more so, and what is even more so is the weight of the provision itself, so this extremely complicated, lengthy legislative wording has not made it easy to process, especially if we go very deeply into this, then we see that it may actually be excessive to say that it was an attempt, but in any case it was more of a model building or a model building. I must say that on 12 December 2018, Parliament voted for the Code itself on this government administration, and then this 11 month has passed, and it is almost 12, and the model of operation comes before us. In particular, knowing or remembering that this type of government administration was already being created by the first Orbán government, if we look at the articles, statements, dialogues at that time, it is now 2019, and now we are still in the model building phase, I feel that it has been a bit of a long job. In 2010, when this government stood up, it once again indicated that it was imagining a government system of this type. If it was a slow job, I hope that the pudding test is eating, it's going to be great. There are two methods of confirmation. One is the well-being of the workers in it and the low turnover, and the other is the effective work task that comes out of it, or the effective appearance of work tasks, and the usefulness that we expect from it. With regard to personnel management, the proposal states that a great deal of experience has been accumulated over the past period and felt that the revision of this law had become necessary at the time, and that this is the subject of this proposal. I see that you are trying to build a somewhat coherent, transparent system for both leaders and subordinates, and then we will see how this will work in practice. But what I really want and I really do expect is the quality of employment. Let us be interested in quality work for government administrations, with pay, clear instructions, precise task system, full transparency of the system of instructions, feedback and verification and certification in the organization. The progress of a government employee is not determined by the proper caressing of his boss' shoulders and smiling kindly, but by the fact that the work he has been entrusted is really accomplished professionally. This system of government, by the way, I think that it is not foreign to the Hungarian view of society. I feel that it is very similar, although, of course, historical times cannot be compared, but there are quite a lot of elements and basic elements of the government system between the two world wars in this, of course, in a somewhat more modern form, but I think that effective work requires strong centralization and rigour with regard to the allocation and accountability of tasks. In fact, I have to say that to me in Hungary, the phenomenon of the highest criticism in public life is more of a phenomenon, the activity or non-activity of very many public and municipal officials, which have been released very often, while there are extremely high expectations of those working on customer services, for example, in a very small but very fixed working order. [[16.40]] So we're talking about extremes very much, and at one extreme there's the coffee-drinker, the coffee-drinker, and at the other end there's the almost slave-worker, because he's working so closely, with a fixed job and a working order. If the government has cut its axe into such a large tree and says that it takes responsibility for its effectiveness, and that we will be satisfied in the course of accountability, as well as the citizens, the workers and the leaders in it, and it will not cost much more than is necessary, then I will be happy to say that this has gone well. I ask you to do one thing, and I would like to stress that I do not want to mess with you, but just in the last year and a half, since I have been here, I cannot tell you how many thousand pages of legislation had to be seen, seen through, managed, of course, the greatest work was done by those who put them together, but it is not easy to process that we are slowly achieving it, and not until April 2022, so that now it should not be an amendment to the amendments to the legislation that was adopted a few years ago. So please do this, for example, before this is to be put to the vote, because we have time to talk about the entry into force of April, although, of course, it would be good if the preparations were to start in December, to review it again, to model what might not be so good, and what might turn out to be a change, and then perhaps to spare Parliament that we should always have to renegotiate the same relations, the same problems, the same system-building tasks, and see them again. And most importantly, for all those who have to do this, we will not generate the uncertainty of those who have to do so, but we will finally have a resting point in this topic, that we can say, now there is a system that may not need to be touched for a while, because for the purpose for which it is destined, it will be appropriate and successful. I wish the government to succeed; I wish the government that it could tell everyone that it was a good thought, that it was good thinking, that it was a good model, because it is also for the benefit of the citizens of our country, but when it is perceived or signaled that something does not work that way, then it is certainly not about self-righteous arrogance that I can only do good, but also make the corrections that will have to be made, and bring it here, because we are not going to say that they have done something lame again, but we are going to say that, well, they have heard the signs of the experts and the workers in it, and they are also able to correct it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-21-30	Thank you very much. Congressman András Aradski, lead speaker for KDNP. Here you go.
u2019-11-21-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us is the 2018 CXXV. In addition to the amendment of the Act, 76 other laws are amended, the fundamental reason for which is that the aforementioned CXXV of 2018 on government administration. The government now had to assess the experience of law and, following an assessment of the experience, the government decided to make appropriate refinements, appropriate and appropriate changes to the legislative package governing the functioning of government administration. Before I go into details, which I try to avoid, I must say that the creation of a law on government administration in 2018 was a very important and forward-looking legislative activity of Parliament on the basis of the government's presentation, which aimed at creating a unified government administration that can guarantee, ensure compliance with legality, meet customer-centred aspects and function effectively. I think that this kind of unified government administration concept is right, it is forward-looking, and in any way improving it, I must say that I think that the legislative theme of the coming years and decades will be regular, because government administration itself cannot be a rigid structure, but it must function in a organisational structure that is responsive to the specific types of cases and adapted to the specific government policy. In addition to putting this forward, I think it is very important that government efficiency and dynamism, which was manifested when the original basic law was adopted, obviously has to be supplemented by improvements based on the experience of recent years or by other government policy measures later. An important element of the bill before us is that it clarifies and dynamics job-related activity, makes it more flexible, and also strengthens cooperation between government bodies, if it is able, for example, to exchange posts with each other. This could also be a solution in the event of a transfer of competence from a given government body to another government body, a more dynamic and rapid solution to the task can be achieved through the replacement of posts, thereby reducing the difficulties that may arise from a lack of skills. I think it is important to mention that, in line with our family policy measures, the bill provides for changes due to the introduction of the Grandparent Childcare Fee, creating the possibility for the government official to take unpaid leave for the personal care of his grandson during the period of the childcare fee. I think it is important to mention that the legislation simplifies job-related issues, in the sense that it clarifies the mandatory content of the document of appointment and also clarifies the provisions on salaries, freedom, recognition and benefits, taking into account the experience of the period so far. It is a very forward-looking idea of the bill that, in order to increase organisational and economic efficiency, it will provide the Government Office and the ministries with the opportunity to set up joint organisations to carry out functional tasks, in particular in order to carry out budgetary, financial and legal tasks. This is not foreign, by the way, we find this in Hungarian practice, for example, in the case of different institutions and professional institutions, which has already been possible, and thus managed to increase the number of staff and the efficiency of carrying out such tasks at the same time. I also think it is important to underline that the kind of practice and the kind of goal that has created a unified central government administration by establishing a government service relationship between employees and the government, while the employer's rights are exercised by the head of the relevant government administration body, which ensures that a unified and well-dynamic government administration is established and that the Hungarian nation, working effectively in the interests of Hungarian society, is established. The submitted bill further strengthens this possibility and we hope that a modern government central administration will be able to serve the interests of the Hungarian nation. In view of this, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-21-32	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. There is no pre-notified speaker. Representative Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-11-21-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to make some comments on the bill. Obviously, I'm not going to go into everything, it's a very serious material. I broadly agree with Congresswoman Varga-Damm that, by the way, the government should decide what it wants to do and how it wants to do, but we are drawing attention to a few things. [[16.50]] First of all, the fact that the bill does not appear at the Parliament's autumn session this year, for example. But this is not surprising, because, if we look at it, there are many other legislative proposals that are currently being put before Parliament. We're-we're used to the fact that all of a sudden, there's stuff of a big size. It has already been said that the law-modifying law itself concerns 76 laws. Of course, it may in itself raise a question as to why, less than a year ago, the law on government administration in application has been passed, it needs to be amended so quickly. Of course, I know this needs to be handled flexibly, but we are talking about 76 laws, a year ago the law was born, and we do not believe that it is justified to change this form so quickly. Of course, the salad law also provides an opportunity to include, in some respects, the facts that the government intends to conceal in such material. Among other things, there are significant increases in the income of employees of public bodies. To mention just a few, I will not mention the whole thing: for example, according to the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, the current salary of the President of the Public Procurement Council will rise from HUF 2 million 639 thousand to HUF 4 million, or, for example, the wages of the Director-General of the National Remembrance Committee will rise from HUF 660 thousand to HUF 1 million 900 thousand, or the salary of the President of the National Election Office will rise from HUF 997 thousand to HUF 1 million to HUF 1 million to HUF 650 thousand, corresponding to the current State Secretary's salary. And we could also mention these increases, which is interesting in the light of the fact that in the press these days it has been said that, by the way, since 6 November, the government decided on a full-scale government staff stop. By the way, according to the president of the trade union in the area, this is the third stop this year, the first one was dissolved in April, and then there was one from August to October, and the current number stop. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The possibility that the law will create a common office organisation for ministries will, on the one hand, lead to a reduction in the number of staff and, on the other hand, reduce the autonomy of central administrations to present another critical element. The public service relationship of government officials can be terminated in the future even if the task to be performed by it is terminated. With this step, the government will further increase the vulnerability of its own employees and reduce legal guarantees to protect workers. The Kit will also be extended to employees of government agencies. a system of remuneration and recognition introduced by the Member State concerned. This measure is also a positive step in terms of remuneration for employees. However, there is also a negative part of Kit. as regards the parts of the employment relationship of workers, where their labour rights protection is reduced, their vulnerability to managers is increased. Otherwise, this measure would be capable of reducing the permanent shortage of staff in government offices if there were no staff stop there. And critical comments could still be made, but I broadly agree with Congresswoman Varga-Damm that the government should manage its own employees, its own system, but in its present form the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
u2019-11-21-34	Thank you very much, honourable Member. I would like to welcome once again my fellow Members and ask if someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, if he would like to speak on what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Just very briefly, not repeating what we were talking about. Thank you, of course, for the support indicated by the speakers of the ruling party group and for understanding that this is not typically the bill that the opposition group supports, precisely because we have to assume responsibility for the internal functioning of the government and in this way, but I also thank you for the good, constructive contributions. I wanted to respond to the question of the level of regulation as to why it is necessary to come to Parliament again and again. I agree that perhaps there should be detailed rules before Parliament that are not necessarily necessary to have the approval of the Parliament, but, if my memories do not deceive me, I was the lucky one to be the Kit. When he was originally adopted, he was in Parliament and represented by the government, and at that time opposition representatives were less constructive in expressing themselves and, in many cases, protesting in detail how the status, rights and obligations of government administrations and government officials would develop. So the two statements can't be true at the same time. So either Parliament wants to give its opinion on every detail, or it doesn't want to, and then we can deregulate these rules to lower levels of legal resources, and then we can bring a more transparent code to Parliament in a codification sense, but then the detailed rules will not come before Parliament, but the government will decide on it in its own jurisdiction. We thought that, out of respect for Parliament, we would choose the former solution rather than the latter, even if it was such a complex codification solution. I would also like to briefly say a few more sentences on the target system for us, starting in May 2008, with regard to government administration and its employees. We were thinking in a three-way system, on the one hand we were thinking about all unnecessary bureaucracy and any unnecessary public-service bombing against taxpayers, so that we should not unnecessarily involve public employees. On the other hand, for those of us who are employed, let us lay down a high quality requirement for which there are serious benefits in return. Thank God, it is such a situation that the real wage increase in the private economy has been around 10 percent for a few years now, which means that the public sector has to participate in a wage competition. Obviously, if we want to work with quality public servants, we have to put the corresponding wage aside. And the family-friendly approach that we believe should be able to transcend Hungary must, of course, also appear in the public service. For this system of three, Kit. with this amendment: on the one hand, we have made an average 30 percent wage increase, family-friendly measures are passed through the system by amending the current law on government administration, and we have been able to eliminate 2600 statuses, some of which have been vacant, but most of them have resulted in real downsizing. So what I can tell you is that we want to create a streamlined, more efficient, but more quality and performance-oriented, and, as far as possible, family-friendly central administration system, to which this legislative amendment is a permanent amendment for those working in the territorial administration. So that was our motivation. Thank you again very much for the speeches, the support speeches and the non-supporting but constructive speeches. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[17.00]]
u2019-11-21-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. We now have a general debate on the bill on bodies with special status and the status of their employees until closure. Government referral T/8020. The Parliament's IT network is available to all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, As I mentioned at the previous item, the link between the two agenda items is quite clear and quite spectacular, and even if we interpret it in an extended way, there is a clear link between the presentation of the bureaucracy reduction represented and promoted by the Secretary of State, Mr Tuzson, and the reform of the territorial administration system. In fact, when the Public Service Officers Act was adopted by the House in 2011, three distinct public service groups formed status. There were, on the one hand, employees in government administration, those in government administration and those in the so-called autonomous bodies and those in the Fundamental Law, employees in independent regulatory bodies. Kit discussed at the previous item on the agenda with regard to central and territorial government administrations. it was the one that achieved the first round of consolidation, in particular approximation, and the legal union would now take place with the adoption of this amendment. This bill, which concerns bodies with special status, aims to continue this process of unification and regulation, to create a new law for the management of the number of bodies and the relationship of their employees, which creates a single framework, but also takes into account the specificities of the bodies involved in the regulation. Our concept was and this bill reflects the fact that we are setting a regulatory framework and trying to ensure the most rational and sensible way possible for so-called bodies with special status, which in itself is a new name for its autonomy. Among the constitutional bodies, this bill concerns: the Office of the President of the Republic, the Office of the Constitutional Court, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the Hungarian Office for Energy and Public Works, the NMHH, the Hungarian Competition Authority, the Secretariat of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Secretariat of the Academy of Arts, the Archives of State Security Services, the Equal Treatment Authority, the Public Procurement Authority, the National Election Office, the Parliamentary Watch and the Office of the National Memorial Committee. From now on, in the event of acceptance, they would be referred to as a body with a uniform special status. In the case of these bodies, as in Kit., we would introduce a regulated staff management, where autonomy would be maintained in such a way that this regulation would be based on a job, but with the exception that the bodies with special status will determine the basic number themselves, taking into account the budgetary frameworks at their disposal. The government does not have competence in terms of posts, given that in many cases there are also bodies that are listed at constitutional level, and therefore the constitutional contexts also require this organisational responsibility and scope. Consequently, the proposal does not recognise the concept of a job in a centralised job pool above the basic number, which can be withdrawn, the organisation can classify the posts. The bill separates two groups of bodies falling within its scope: the first group includes four administrative posts, and the second group can create five categories of managing posts, and the management classification categories are the same for both groups. The proposal seeks to ensure greater freedom and autonomy for top professional managers, as the category of classification is not defined in the bill. There are bodies with special status that are not classified as having a place of employment, as the salary for these bodies is not determined on the basis of the salary table set out in the Annex to the bill, and the degree of supplementary leave is not laid down in the bill, but it is a public service contract on the basis of the agreement of the parties, which in this sense allows for an even greater degree of flexibility. I look at the rules here. The rules of detail. If you will allow me, if there is a question about this, I would be happy to present this to you, of course. I'd like to point out a few more details for you. One is that the bill removes the concept of employment and focuses on the concept of the task to be performed at the post, which is defined by the head of the body with special status. This is also flexibility and the scope of Article XXI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It provides the leaders of special bodies with a better opportunity to adapt to the circumstances of the century. The bill complements the grounds for the termination of the legal relationship with the lack of merit, which replaces the dismissal in the name of inadequacy. The bill sets out the rules for benchmarking with a content different from that of previous legislation. Its mandatory nature, i.e. the performance of the civil servant can be assessed by the employer's exerciser on the basis of discretion. Contrary to previous regulations, we would not record, record in this law, if we received Parliament's support for the daily work schedule, this is also entrusted to the employer, and like Kit., the possibility of teleworking and the institution of home work appear here. In addition, the family-friendly turnout also appears in special status agencies, the extra leave for children is doubled, father days, so-called father days are raised, and new categories of supplementary leave are emerging, both in some way linked to child rearing and family life. But we believe that the accumulation of freedoms has been an unbroken, but harmful practice since the change of regime, which we have been able to put an end to this year with regard to the central administration and the territorial administration, we would also like to put an end to in the case of bodies with special status. There is also a new recognition system for these bodies with special status and their leaders, which, we believe, provide sufficient flexibility and are generally sufficiently open to other types of reward for government officials of bodies with special status. That's it. Thank you very much for your attention, and if you have any further questions about any of the specifics, I will, of course, be at your disposal at the end. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2019-11-21-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is our fellow Member, Károly Becsó. There you go. You have the floor. [[17.10]]
u2019-11-21-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal on the House's table aims to establish legal provisions on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them. The proposal aims to regulate the labour law conditions of public service officials, which, until the Act on Government Administration was passed, included employees of government administrations, local government administrations and so-called autonomous bodies and autonomous regulatory bodies. At the end of 2018, this line was shortened by staff working in government administration, and the proposal submitted aimed at creating a new law as a direct follow-up to this regulatory process, the principle of which is to harmonise the number of employees and the status of bodies with similarities. The proposal concerns a number of bodies, and Mr Secretary of State has explained this in detail. Dear House, The proposal before us introduces the special status category as a common name for autonomous public administrations and self-regulatory bodies, creating a third type of public administration in addition to government administrations and municipal administrations. I would point out that the operation of bodies with special status is governed by specific laws, so the proposal sets only the most important frameworks, thus ensuring the autonomy of bodies with special status. Staff management is based on posts, with the exception that the bodies with special status define their basic number taking into account the budgetary framework available to them, and the government has no powers in relation to posts. I would also like to point out that the rules on the public service relationship of persons employed in bodies with special status were basically laid down under the Public Service Officers Act, but in view of the specificities of job-based personnel management some parts of the Government Administration Act were also taken into account in the preparation of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us contains solutions that will continue to reform the legislation governing the labour law conditions of public service officials, which started in 2018, and contribute to the unity of the Hungarian legal system. On the basis of what the rapporteur has said, and in view of the above, the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the proposal, I ask all my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-21-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we have before us a bill that is part of a threefold package of laws. The government was committed to dividing the former public service law into parts, and as public service officials are divided, it makes different laws about them, and these packages are legislation on government administration, municipal administration and bodies with special status. The Government Administration Act is already in place and has entered into force, and now we have a next package dealing with bodies with special status. There are positive things in it, and there are negative things in it, so there is a double assessment of the legislation. Obviously, the fact that we are talking about bodies with special status involves the fact that they are actually involved with people who cannot be united in the same way and must be given the flexibility that the law is really trying to give. For example, in relation to the budget, a budget is provided, including the organisational manager deciding what parts of the organisation are inside, how the salary is divided or, where appropriate, the salary. So there's a lot of freedom here, there's a lot of interoperability, and it's definitely a positive move. If I am talking about positive things, let me mention the possibility of teleworking and the possibility of working at home, which is also a positive thing in the law. Teleworking and home work have been a problem in Hungary for a very long time, because this was either not possible in any form at all, or very, very limitedly, and here many of our fellow people, who had some sort of physical disability, for example, could not do work regularly, so it is clear here that today, in Hungary and everywhere in the world, there are very advanced technologies and systems with which teleworking becomes easier or more accessible, these opportunities have been opened up, and this is positive in any way. As in the past, the law, as well as the civil servants' law, basically retains the appointment as a contract that creates the legal relationship, which is created by appointment and acceptance of it, or can be concluded in a narrow manner, so there is nothing new about this. However, there are certain parts where there is still a positive thing, such as the need to give preference to a person who raises more children when choosing who will be hired there, or to give preference to those in a voluntary reserve service, I should highlight this. Although the fact that more children can only be raised requires a huge difference between the second and the second, one is only an option that no one has to apply, and the other is an obligation. So it would be good if, in the other case, we also used the term, "I must" instead. Then what I'd like to say, and what's negative, is that it's not worth it. Here is a type of word that the government has been using regularly in such proposals for years in cases of inadequacy: the civil servant must be given the opportunity to know the underlying circumstances of the decision and within 15 days to present his defence and to present his evidence. There is nothing wrong with that, this is the part that I completely agree with, but the turn is that, except in all circumstances of the case, it cannot be expected from the body with special status. I find it difficult to imagine that this cannot be expected, since any extreme case may occur where there is a complete misinterpretation of the worker, the appointed civil servant, and if he is unable to perform in any form, he is not given the opportunity to present his defence or to respond to the decision of his employer, it is certainly not certain that the most just decision will be made. This text, this turn of events, has always been in previous legislation, I do not know that we opposition representatives have always drawn attention to the fact that perhaps this part should be taken out of it and that it should always be possible for anyone to present its defence. Obviously, if there's a case where it's completely obvious, then he can't defend himself either, so I don't think it's gonna drag us out of this relationship, so there's no such problem. Then let's look at the negatives. When the law on government officials came into force, it came into force, and it was already under attack by the trade unions. Why is that? Because, in fact, this became an interesting name, namely the Public Service Slave Act, its name, the trade unions called this law. Why? Because it creates a number of difficulties, which are detrimental to civil servants against the former law, and this mainly concerns working time and rest periods. On the one hand, the trade unions objected to the fact that lunchtime had previously been counted into eight hours of working time, which is no longer the case. And what does that bring with it? If this is multiplied by the number of working days per year, it will be about 15 days in total, this half hour will mean that the civil servant will work 15 days more for the same salary. Moreover, Mr Secretary of State stressed that the freedoms are also being amended, but Mr Secretary of State only said how good it is that the leave for a child, the leave for a child, will be doubled, but compared to the previous legislation, the basic freedom will be reduced compared to the original legislation, which was 25 days ago, and there is only 20 days of basic freedom here, and if there are spare leave, then there is virtually a reduction in the basic freedom for the childless or adult children or the single children. And basically, as a 13th month's working time, we are not talking about wages, 13th month's working hours, thus increasing the duty of civil servants to work, and, moreover, the lunch hour, which is half an hour and does not include working hours, must be available to the employer during this period, so it can be interrupted at any time, and can be assigned to work during this period. This means a standby, a availability, which again does not appear anywhere among the employee's discounts, and that is why they have named it the 13th month's working time, which is why the public service slave law became the name. [[17.20]] It doesn't include anything special about termination of employment. What I would like to say here, and the only thing, is that the termination of the public service relationship is linked to 70 years of age. This is also the case for other public service workers. Only then do I not understand, although it does not belong here, not to this law, but in the previous law on forced retirement of judges, was 65 years, and there the government practically said that after 65 years, no meaningful work could be expected here that the judges could provide. Then I don't know how different public service workers are to make a difference. In one place you can work until you're 65... And, of course, I'm not talking about the right not to go, because judges had the right to leave when they were 65, if they decided, but they had the right to stay. Here, too, the public service worker has the right to leave at the age of 65, if he reaches the retirement age, but if he decides to stay longer, he can stay longer, and he will only end his legal relationship by the age of 70, unless he is terminated, because the employer's employer obviously has the right to send the worker away by filling the retirement age of 65 and, as we can see from the law, in this case, when he has completed the old-age pension, he does not even have to justify the termination of the public service relationship. On this basis, I have also said its positives and the main negatives of this legislation. I believe that there could have been a piece of legislation that could have been supported by opposition representatives. I think that there should have been much greater consultation in this, consultation with trade unions, consultation with opposition parties, and then perhaps a consensus law could have been established to ensure that the legislative amendments were also made to the satisfaction of public service workers in general. I would like to think of one more thing, and this is the situation of municipal civil servants, where they are constantly humiliated and humiliated with regard to wages, since certain groups have already raised their wages, but there they have not touched their wages in any way, and there is still the humiliating wage base that was introduced eleven years ago. It would also be nice to change that as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-21-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr András Aradski. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Looks like we're in a series of laws on such public service workers. This recent bill differs from the fact that it will continue the legislation that started in 2011 and continued in 2018 with the adoption of the Act on Government Administration. In the present case, it takes out the employees and employees of the institutions that have been used under the heading of the so-called autonomous bodies and other autonomous regulatory bodies. The bill creates a new category, the so-called special status entity. The reason why it is justified to establish a separate law on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them is primarily because these bodies, which are listed here in the bill, are essentially important organisations in our constitutional system, which have independent tasks from government, and as a result, they should be able to ensure the employment balance that we believe is correctly and properly regulated by the bill before us, in compliance with so-called their own decision-making powers and their own legal conditions. We must also add that this autonomy is also important because of the fact that the proper fulfilment and acceptance of this type of legal solution is also important because there are separate laws governing most of these bodies, the vast majority of them, and even all of them in their internal lives, tasks and powers. So this draft legislation, the bill that we have before us, is actually a framework measure for employment rules, because it is not affected, should not affect separate separate laws which regulate the basic rules of bodies with special status now or for the future. It seems to me that this bill serves this duality, this ratio, this balance well. I see no obstacle that raises constitutional concerns about the adoption of the bill. I believe it is important to strengthen the guarantee rule in this proposal that, in terms of the basic number, the heads of bodies determine the basic number within the limits of their budgets, and that posts which may be permanently vacant in these organisations cannot be added to the posts. So in this, too, we can stress its separation, its independence from the government, reach and ensure bodies with special status. All the important elements relating to family policy, the other positive aspects of employment, are heavily included in the bill. Among these, I must highlight the applicability of the employment relationship, but this also has a limit that 10 per cent of the workforce cannot be exceeded and can generally be used to carry out administrative tasks linked to the powers of supervision, control and management. The bill provides great freedom for the leaders of bodies with special status, in accordance with our constitutional principles, in accordance with the assurance that the operation of these bodies contains guarantee elements for the state, citizens, guarantee elements that are not dependent on government will, but in many cases against government, bodies that perform the role of government control. In addition, there are, of course, organisations that define social needs and perform constitutional tasks, without which Hungarian constitutionalism would be difficult or perhaps impossible to operate. Thus, overall, without going into the details, the adoption of the bill can be supported by the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-21-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's really very short. I'd like to add one more thing to this. The bodies that are affected by this bill are now known as bodies with special status, so let's just admit to ourselves that they were the only ones left out of the post-2010 transformation. And it may be that Congressman Gyüre defined this as a positive, he referred to how good these bodies were, because, for example, they were subject to different rules on freedom and how bad they were now. The fact is, these constitutional bodies have not yet seen this as a positive one. So these constitutional bodies believe that they have been governed by the legislation that Parliament has done since 2010 in relation to government administration and territorial government, that this did not extend to them, but that they were essentially subject to the same rules, and that they were not dissatisfied with it. [[17 .30]] Obviously, there are some dimensions that you'd rather agree with, and there are dimensions that you don't. I suppose it's no secret to any of us that these constitutional bodies and those who work there, once again, are not public officials, so not those who participate in the political arena, obviously not politicians, but the leaders of these bodies are public-law, so in some way they are involved in the political arena. So it's not about them, it's about basically neutral working in their office, it's about bureaucrats or professionals in a good way, so that this proposal also creates their wage increase and their wage settlement. So, given the fact that the leaders of these constitutional bodies, or those who are concerned with this regulation, are pleased with this bill, so what you have said is that we are talking about legislation from a government force without consultation, and that, in some way, the civil servants concerned may be in a worse position than they are now, and this, in this way, is certainly not the case. So we are pleased that they are also covered by the new set of rules, concepts and philosophy that extends to other government officials. Of course, there is also family friendship and the creation of conditions for performance-based operation in addition to competitive wage. So, in this sense, the system of accountability, the accounting system, the accounting system are also stricter, but we believe, and the leaders of the constitutional bodies agree that if we treat this in a package, then this is a fair offer with which they are the 21st. They can work under the circumstances of the century, and their constitutional status or independence will not be undermined to any extent. Therefore, I would like to thank the pro-government groups for their support and encourage as many Members as possible to vote bravely in favour of the bill when the vote takes place. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause from his pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-21-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on public procurement until closure. The government referral is T/8039. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the four years since the entry into force of the Act on Public Procurement 2015 and the feedback of the many years and a half since the introduction of e-procurement, we believe that it will now be possible to assess the impact of the electronic procurement system, the so-called ECR, on reducing and increasing transparency, on the factors that still make it impossible to fully meet the 21st EDF. 100th-century challenges. As a result of the examination of these issues, we have come to this amendment, in which we propose simplification and acceleration in order to increase competitiveness in the interests of transparency. The purpose of the legislative amendment, which has now been tabled, is to reduce administrative burdens, to prevent simplification and the delay in the procedure in the interests of transparency. It is important for us to increase regularity through rules to prevent financial corrections to EU funds, and, of course, we also want to strengthen the guarantees of responsible public spending. There are a number of simplification rules on the table to assist the enforcement of the law. For example, the mandatory data content of notices is reduced. This is also a good example of reducing the administrative burden. We believe that the administrative burden of Kbt will be reduced. 5. In addition, the termination of the procurement obligation laid down in paragraph 3 of Section 3. This rule established a public procurement obligation for the source user, depending on the level of EU or domestic support used more widely than the EU legal obligation. Since this obligation is not based on EU law, the rule can therefore be deleted without prejudice to EU law. The termination of the PM's control of public procurement from domestic sources and procurement below the public procurement threshold serves to eliminate duplication. I would like to draw attention now to the fact that, if I followed the press on this issue well, some opposition actors are trying to attack this by reducing the frequency, depth and quality of the controls, while we have been constantly hearing over the past year and a half how pointless it is that the Prime Minister's Office controls certain public procurements. Thus, one of the two statements certainly does not stand the test of reality. At the same time, it is important to stress that, on the one hand, this amendment does not affect the control by the Prime Minister of public procurement from EU funds, which is an EU obligation. On the other hand, there is, of course, the possibility of checking for public procurement from all domestic sources, and the controls can be carried out, as in addition to the Prime Minister's Office, there have been parallel audit organisations, in particular the State Audit Office, the Government Audit Office and the Public Procurement Authority, which continue to carry out the resulting powers and tasks. Precisely because of duplication, the procedures so far have proved to be slow and the slowness in public procurement procedures leads to costly procedures and uncertainties. We would therefore like to eliminate these in this bill. In addition, as a result of addressing issues related to the financial correction of Union funds, the grounds for refusal of competition law infringements, i.e. the rule whereby economic operators which have been cartels in the course of the tendering procedure may be excluded from the procurement procedure, are clarified. The amendment draws attention to the contracting authority's obligation to exclude from the procedure tenderers which, although not started as an independent undertaking in the proceedings, intended to influence the effectiveness of the procedure through their infringement of competition law. The bill further simplifies the legislation by repealing the type of procedure requiring publication of the so-called summary prospectus for public procurement below the EU thresholds. Thus, the use of notices in the opening of proceedings will also become a major rule in these procedures, contributing to transparency and increased competition, which, in this sense, also means the regulation of public procurement and the requirement to manage public funds in a responsible manner. It is also considered to be a simplification in line with practical challenges that only, once again, the obligation to apply quality assessment criteria to works, design and engineering services is abolished. This is due to the Kbt. Based on the experience of its use to date, it is not always appropriate to require only such assessment criteria to remain mandatory. However, the main rule remains that contracting authorities can only assess the price in justified cases, but in these cases it is also the case that cheaper bidders are selected as the winners of public procurement. This, therefore, will ultimately increase the requirement for responsible management of budgetary money. [[17.40]] And if there is a serious debate about this and the bill, let me share some facts and statistics with you, which shows that the new public procurement law, of course, is not perfect as any human-made thing, but has fulfilled the expectations attached to it, and that electronic public procurement has also increased competition and transparency. Based on the current 2018 reports, I am thinking of public procurement reports, the number of public procurements awarded to small and medium-sized enterprises has increased in Hungary, and we are talking about 7700 such public procurements, while in 2008 there were only 2700 such public procurements. The value of these has also increased exponentially, and not only the number but also the value. In terms of total volume, the winners are 58 percent small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement, which has been a record in the last ten years and only 39 percent in 2008. The trend towards a reduction in single tender procurement continues to continue both in national and EU procedures. The proportion of non-publishing procedures has also decreased significantly, from 10 per cent to 5 per cent in EU procedures and from 2 per cent in national procedures to 1 per cent. Obviously, in this context, there is a downward trend in the number of remedies, which cannot be decoupled from this, and therefore the desensibility of public procurement decisions has been strengthened, but the debate on specific decisions has been reduced. Obviously, this also shows that in this regard we are not going downhill, but in a mountain procession. Therefore, I would like to ask the Parliament to support the simplification, acceleration and guarantee provisions on which this bill would propose, in keeping with the line set out in the Public Procurement Act in 2015, and I would like once again to ask for the support of all Members of Parliament in this matter. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-21-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Tilki. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, T/8039 on the amendment of certain laws relating to public procurement. The main objective of the draft law is the 2015 CXLIII. With regard to the public procurement law, simplification, acceleration and reduction of administrative burdens, increasing regularity through rules to prevent and reduce risks to Union financial resources, and strengthening the guarantees of responsible public spending. The current legislative amendment will allow problems to be dealt with even further in the future through electronic public procurement. Accordingly, the plans for the coming years include the implementation of the ECR functions, which provide active support for the procurement process, which represent a real and substantial reduction of the administrative burden, as they partially remove the administrative burden on contracting authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the key elements of the bill is simplification, acceleration and reduction of administrative burdens. This is also necessary because Hungary has achieved the fifth worst result of the 28 Member States of the European Union in the annual statement prepared by the European Commission, where the average length of proceedings has been examined by each EU country. Statistical data show that the average duration of proceedings is increasing year after year in Hungary, broken down by day. In 2015, it took an average of 80 days, 109 days in 2016, 123 days in 2017, and 141 days last year to review a public procurement procedure, so all these reasons are that we really try to create legislation that simplifies the procedures. In order to strengthen the guarantees of responsible public spending, the type of procedure that has been used in the national procedure has been deleted. As a result of the amendment, the application of notices in the national procedure will become the main rule in the opening of proceedings. The change will contribute to increasing competition and transparency and will try to simplify the procurement legislation. The Secretary of State has also mentioned several paragraphs in detail, which serve to make the bill before us simpler and perhaps more transparent in everyday life. I'm 76. I would like to draw attention to paragraph 5 of Article 5 of which the amendment of which allows contracting entities to apply the valuation criterion for the lowest price in the case of works, if economically the choice of the most advantageous offer is not accompanied by additional quality characteristics, but only by the assessment of the lowest price. This is specifically an amendment that could actually speed up public procurement procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, Since many of the provisions of the bill before us have been adapted to practical life, I recommend that not only the Fidesz faction supports the proposed bill, but that we also receive the necessary support from the opposition parties. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-21-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Potocskané Anita Kőrösi. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-21-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is no wonder that this law on public procurement has just arrived before this House, because this week, Monday, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán came to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán with an immediate question about the question of what could have caused the government to decide that hundreds of billions of forints were used by the Prime Minister for so-called correction because of the irregular use of EU funds. I believe that this bill, which lies before us, is largely the consequence of this. There are a lot of positive changes in it, and these also need to be highlighted, because it is only fair to see that this draft legislation is also about simplification, acceleration and reduction of administrative burdens. It is very important and I absolutely support the extension of e-procurement as widely as possible, because it is very important not only for environmental purposes but also for reducing administrative burdens, and, of course, because of traceability, it is important that this EKR system is extended as widely as possible. There is an interesting point in the legislation, and I would like to put this as a question, that, in the event that some of the procurement documentation contains business secrets or secrets, there is no obligation to use the documents in the EKR system, there is one such paragraph in this draft legislation. What I would like to ask is which legal secret will be used to determine when these procedures need not be carried out electronically, because I think that this can only be accepted if taxatically determines what secrets they are and does not use this provision in the future, because, in practice, a large part of public procurement is also a business secret, as there are many business secrets in economic life, so this would be a question of which legal secret will be used here. The valuation criterion other than value is excluded from the definition of the value-to-value ratio. I also appreciate this as a positive thing from the point of view that the cheapest offer can finally win again. [[17.50]] In fact, as Vice Mayor of Siófok, many news, press news and I have also experienced that very low offers have been excluded, because they are too low, and in the evaluation system at some point a two-time expensive public procurement bidder has been announced as a winner. So I value this positive, that it is the value, the market price, that determines some investments. Obviously, I think it is important that, where other qualitative aspects are noteworthy, it remains possible for decision-makers to decide on a variety of evaluation criteria on the reading page. The draft also states that if the value in the tender documentation or any quality evaluation criteria and the reading sheet differ, then the reading sheet will now be the one that enjoys priority, so the decision must be made on the basis of that. I am a little concerned that the powers of the Minister for Public Procurement for Central Control in the case of public procurement from domestic sources will be removed. I know that there are a lot of public procurement procedures in the system, and there may be a lot of aspects under which this has to be removed from the legislation, and I would like to ask you that because I see it, my fellow Member Tilki says that this is not in the system, and it wasn't in the system, then I apologize for this, and that is how I interpreted one of the paragraphs. As a critical remark, I would like to state that this is not the first legislation where the statement of opposition comments, the possibility of forming an opinion on anything, is removed from a law, and in this there is such an observation that, as regards IT systems, it is ensured to the government that it should form an autonomous regulation. My question is what is the purpose of this, because, obviously, IT investments are very important investments, and that is what we are trying to do in the 21st century. This is obviously an innovative and truly forward-looking sector, but if the government re-establishes independent regulations, it will no longer come before Parliament and we will be excluded from its powers of opinion. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-21-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr András Aradski. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It appears that we have a proposal to amend a well-established law, as shown by the fact that the 2015 CXLIII. Law reached the objectives set at that time, when it was put into effect. You mentioned impressive data on how the structure of public procurement has changed by applying the new law, how successful it has been to achieve the objective of transparency, auditability and reducing administrative burdens compared to previous legislation. This was a pleasure to hear, and let us not forget that the dynamic share of SMEs in public procurement procedures, which you mentioned was 58 percent in terms of value, is an outstanding result at EU level. But why, in addition to these good results and positive effects, it is enough to say that according to the statistics in Hungary, the new Kbt is the new Kbt. Since its entry into force, there has been an upward trend as to how long it took for a procedure to be carried out and implemented, i.e. from the invitation to tender to the decision to the conclusion of the contract in Hungarian. This is currently 120 days, which is a fairly high average duration, and Hungary has not achieved the best result among the EU countries. Therefore, if the proposal contains solutions to reduce this, it must be supported, even because it is not in a conditional way to say this, but there are actually concrete measures in the bill on how to reduce the duration of the evaluation and conduct of public procurement. I must point out that instead of ten working days, contracting authorities will have three working days to publish the notice of termination of proceedings, and I also consider it important that this dynamism remains among the obligations to publish a contract amendment notice. I also think it is important to stress that we, or at least those working in the local government, have been very welcome in the proposal, namely that the central control by the Prime Minister's Office is no longer carried out with regard to public procurement from domestic sources, because this has led to a serious duplication, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it has been a serious obstacle to the conduct of effective municipal procurement. I am talking about the public procurements to which the central budget has been allocated, but the municipality has carried out the given public procurement, and in such cases the Prime Minister's Office has had a number of delays that produce or cause risky financial risks, which was understandable because of the high number of public procurements and their diversity, so a central, one-place control that the Prime Minister's Office has conducted so far may not have helped the rapid procurement procedures. I think it is important to underline that it is in the national interest that, in the case of investments from EU funds, the PM's control remains, because this is a guarantee that no loss of funds or fines or corrections will occur as a result of the procedures. I also consider it important to point out that the draft requires the contracting authority to examine cartel activity in respect of non-independent undertakings, to explore the grounds for exclusion and to exclude these contracting entities from the procedure, because this is a fundamental breach of the law on public procurement. I must add that, in my humble opinion, this kind of investigation duty does not only apply to non-independent undertakings, because legally and possibly financially independent undertakings are able to carry out and practice collusion between themselves, involving the influence of offers, during the procurement procedure. Therefore, contracting authorities have a significant responsibility here to protect the purity of competition in a manner appropriate to their interests. I must add that I also feel that the regulation, which is set out in the draft, is not binding on the application of qualitative assessment criteria, is a forward-looking measure for the purity of competition. I must stress that the obligation will cease to exist. The contracting authority, i.e. the customer, has a serious responsibility when drawing up forward-looking and procurement tenders and requests, that, if I do not wish to apply these rating criteria, quality assessment criteria: it may use a very well-developed, very precise invitation to tender, in which the conditions clearly include, in addition to the price, the accountability of the other qualifying criteria that ensure the consistency of tenders and the possibility of assessing them on an equal basis. [[18.00]] I think that this kind of solution, which is included in the proposal, ensures the dynamism of evaluation, increases transparency and increases, I think, rightly, the responsibility of the contracting authority. We hope that, in a few years' time, when we assess the entry into force of the Public Procurement Act, the overall impact of all of these will be able to continue to dynamic public procurement, to continue to ensure transparency, to continue to ensure and to strengthen the appropriateness and rationality of the use of public funds, as set out in CXLIII of 2015. The law has already done that. Therefore, we can very much support the fact that, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I can support the adoption by Parliament of this bill of simplification, acceleration and further reduction in administration. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-21-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Representative Sándor Szabó, notary of the Parliament, is the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-21-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, However, the clearly admitted objective of the proposal is what we have heard from the press and from all other news these days, the gigabyte which the Union would otherwise like to impose on us. It is therefore clear that the main changes are linked to the conduct of public procurement and, above all, to its control. Several people have already said that the current amendment is also about other important things. Among other things, the fact that there is a real division between the control of public procurement from domestic and EU sources. In domestic purchases, the Minister's ability to control the process will cease, which can also be interpreted as improving regulation, while this will not be the case for EU purchases, there will be strict control, partly to avoid possible financial penalties in time. By the way, the Prime Minister's Office has already published a rugged communication on this issue in the summer, which clearly concerned the need to avoid tricks and collusions as far as possible in public procurement from EU funds, and to make use of economic resources. In the latter case, the current amendment also seeks to help by creating, in the current situation, the possibility for the contracting authority to decide on the winner solely on the basis of the price offer. This was the case before, but suddenly, in 2015, this was changed, and the price was not only the main aspect of public procurement procedures, but other quality parameters could also be taken into account in the announcement of the winner of public procurement tenders. However, this has often not helped to save public money, let us be honest. Now, at the sources of the 2014-20 EU development cycle, you may be able to move back to putting a cheaper offer in place, which, I think, is welcome. Since 2010, the government has shaped, modified, reorganised or suspended public procurement rules on a number of occasions. We must say, however, that it has been the experience, or, at least in many cases, that it has been a strong enough consideration for public procurement so that as much public money as possible can be transferred to certain interests as quickly as possible in a confusing or difficult way. It is no coincidence, by the way, that the European Union was satisfied with this certain confusion. That is why the HUF 700 billion penalty is envisaged, or, as the Prime Minister puts it, correction, because we cannot talk about punishment. But somewhere, this 700 billion forints has to be paid. I say this because the total amount of the seven operational programmes is 7480 billion forints, of which 75 percent, 5600 billion forints have been awarded and contracted by the Hungarian government. The penalty for this would be 560 billion forints. But if it doesn't have to be paid, we're gonna have to give up that kind of money. There is also an extra cost here, in the case of the HUF 420 billion water utility contest awarded by Lőrinc Mészáros, a 25 percent repayment rate was provided for after the already contracted HUF 260 billion, which means an additional HUF 65 billion. In addition, there is the contracted amount of additional 10 percent flat-rate penalties for the operational programme for urban and territorial development, which amounts to approximately HUF 68 billion. That's how 700 billion forints come together. There are some forward-looking signs in the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, but because of all of this, the MSZP cannot support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
u2019-11-21-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Hajdu. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-57	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Compared to the previous speakers, I will not be able to say anything new. I have just a few comments. One is that the proposed proposal amends the 15th Act in twenty points, and this shows that there was a lot of trouble with that law four years ago. I would rather refer to what I hope this law will regulate, but during this period there was no part of the municipal market, some of the procurement involved EU funds, because EU funds could not be obtained in a normative way or in a non-public tender, or even if it was advertised, it could be predicted who was the winner. I think that public procurement starts with who has access to that public money. Then, even if we succeed, the ants will come and surround the municipality with the mayor, the various heads of the office on all channels. People implement these laws, in spite of infirmity and all else, despite transparency, the error follows there, in the implementation. I think that perhaps there is something that this amendment will help us to implement. The fact that you are here now is obviously linked to the EU's money or to the correction that has already been referred to here, and which the Prime Minister has described as such in the hour of immediate questioning. I consider it important that access to a professional in this market is an incredibly difficult issue. So-called public procurement lawyer, if you want to solve it yourself, let's say, a local government is almost inaccessible. In our case, we have a public procurement lawyer, two, but this can be done by providing, on the one hand, almost deputy mayor level remuneration, paying the professional law exam to the municipality, and trying to conclude a contract to keep these professionals. There is a problem at the moment when a professional lawyer is a sub-contractor, and it has to be paid from the outside, then it is untraceable. [[18.10]] This is true not only for EU money, but for example, in my practice we did not have much. But for example, we got tao money for something, little. At that point, it was almost possible to know who was going to build that sports field, who was going to get the lights, who was going to take the fake weed, everything was there, only one or two companies in the whole country knew how to do it. But I believe that it is important to amend such a law to obtain external independent control, especially if it is paid out of public money, but not from the municipal register. At the municipal register, I believe that it is incredibly dependent on the person who leads that municipality, and very, very dependent on the type of body of representatives, how much control he has over them. I completely agree with the speakers before me. Other areas of procurement, therefore, are not the construction, but the purchase of instruments of any value or whatever, all of which are tempted and approached, it is incredibly difficult to keep it straight, walk along this road with a human spine, so hard to apply public procurement law. I may have been able to do this during my five cycles in the municipality, but it's a very shallow market, so I understand those who hear a lot of things in anger, press and a lot of things, and I'm a little upset. But I know how hard it is to stay human on these issues. I haven't discussed the support of this law with the faction yet, so that we can support it. I guess when it comes to the vote, we can decide by then. Thank you.
u2019-11-21-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Attila Tilki asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-11-21-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to say that it has been said here by the opposition parties that it is obviously due to the event on Monday. Well, there are many of us here, two mayors, former mayor, from Jobbik's side, obviously Sándor Szabó didn't move in this area, but Mrs. Vice-Mayor is also good at it, and obviously we know that legislation doesn't go overnight. So it's stupid that that's why he's here. Obviously, life justified the need to change certain paragraphs and adapt them to life. Otherwise, surprisingly, I agree with the former mayor of DK for the second time today, it is really difficult, and the legislation must be constantly amended. And let's not always think about the wrong thing. Article 76 Section 5, where the lowest price is involved, only in the event that we do not talk about other quality things. But there are special public procurements where there is a need to establish other quality things, and other quality things are sometimes more important than the lowest price. This is only true if there is no clause or no other quality factor, then the acceptance of the lowest price category will be much easier. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-21-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-61	Thank you. Very briefly. I would also confirm what Congressman Tilki said. This has nothing to do with issues relating to the European Union and the use of EU funds. It has nothing to do with any financial corrections. Once again, just to say this in every forum, we owe it to the facts that we are talking about a financial correction because it is the correct term. This means that these projects are implemented, implemented or in the phase of implementation. By the way, they are pre-funded from Hungarian budgetary resources, and these are being accounted for at the moment with the European Union, Brussels. During this settlement there was a certain disagreement between the Hungarian authorities and the European Union on the accounting and procurement procedures. In this case, the Hungarian authorities and the Hungarian Government say that if the European Union does not accept these accounts, they will, as prefinanced, also be financed by Hungarian budgetary resources. And the EU budget lines thus released will be launched again. Therefore, no loss of resources in relation to these remedies can occur once. This was served by the approach or strategy to overdesign EU funds, precisely because we know that such settlement disputes always occur, such a settlement debate will take place for all Member States. Our first and most important goal was not to lose funds in any way. At the moment, we see that we will be able to avoid this. There was also a comment on IT purchases. We see that the amendment in question, which gives the government the power to verify IT-related public procurements, is a technical supplement to the law, which serves the purpose of, by the way, that, since the Prime Minister's Office's right of control is no longer applicable, but in the case of IT-related procurement, this competence should be maintained because the consistency of public hardware and software infrastructure and ensuring the cooperation of individual elements is in the public interest, in which case, despite the fact that the law starts in the direction of another regulatory logic, but in this case it is necessary to maintain controls. Congresswoman asked me about the bill 1. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid It is stated that the contracting authority may provide that electronic communications and the use of the EKR are not mandatory if the procurement documents contain a business secret, classified information. And he wondered why this regulation would appear here. I am able to inform you that this is, on the one hand, the emergence of a directive provision in Hungarian law, so it has a European Union regulatory basis. I can also inform you that this rule is exactly the same at the moment at the level of regulation, and what happens is that we raise it from the level of regulation to the level of law. But that doesn't mean any real change. By the way, what constitutes a business secret is the 2018 LIV. Act CLV of 2009 on the protection of business secrets and on classified information. Act on the protection of classified information. So it is these two laws that give us a briefing on the cases in which we can apply these special rules. Once again, which have been available so far, only at a lower level of legal resources. Thank you very much for your comments and additions and thank you for your support. Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2019-11-21-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it was possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Next up is the 1990 XCIII on levies. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/8038. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, the rapporteur of the agenda, the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, if he still has a voice. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[18.20]]
u2019-11-21-63	Thank you very much, I'm fighting and I'm holding, I'm reporting. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, XCIII of 1990 on levies For nearly thirty years now, the Act regulates the basic rules on fees and charges for administrative judicial services in a uniform manner, in order to ensure that a proportionate contribution to public and social tasks can be achieved. The bill proposes to amend this system and introduce another special asset collection levy, including the regulation of the transfer levy. A new element, a payment obligation on sellers of real estate from outside areas, would be added to the levy scheme of the levy law in order to include real estate and to bear more burden on real estate transactions for sale. The reason for this is that the sales value of a property increases significantly after being moved from the outside area. The sole objective behind these transactions may be to include the real estate outside the territory after it has been purchased and then to re-sell it with a significant profit. The amendment of the law is intended to reduce such speculation abuses, which, once again, explicitly wish to realise considerable wealth through the introduction of land on the outside. Therefore, the levy does not intend to increase revenue, increase tax revenue or revenue, but it is a penalty-like levy, a speculation activity of a punitive nature, which we hope will have the effect of curbing this speculation method and curbing abuses. In addition, we believe that it is not desirable in many other respects to include external areas and thus increase the number and proportion of internal areas. Here we can bring nature conservation, environmental protection, sustainability, urban and other aspects. All such aspects point in the direction of limiting cases of internalisation from outside areas and, if these cases have to take place in an otherwise reasonable way, they cannot be used for speculation purposes by those concerned. As to the significance of this issue, I can provide you with the data of a very long period of time based on the data of the Central Statistical Office. Seventeen years, in nearly two decades, between 2002 and 2019, the size of the interior area increased by 3169 hectares across the country. This means a half-percent increase in virtually all inland areas. It should also be seen that, for example, if you look at the construction land prices for 2018, this is 50 times higher than the land price. Thus, land prices may increase by up to 50 times with the conversion, i.e. from the outer area to the internal area. This obviously gives wide scope to speculation. If we count averages in 2018, and we would not see these areas as arable land, then here we can see that a profit of 235 billion is potentially what arises only in the context of the conversion. According to the bill, therefore, from this point on, the sale of the transferred areas should be subject to a transfer fee for real estate which has been classified as real estate property from the outside area, but not later than 10 years prior to the sale, not earlier than 1 February 2019. The rate of the levy is 90 per cent of the basis for the levy and the basis for the levy is the difference between the value of the property when it was acquired and the turnover of the property when it was sold. We believe that, with this amendment of the law, if Parliament decides to support it, on the one hand, we will prevent a source of real estate speculation, we will give a clear signal that this may be an undesirable activity in the public interest, we will be able to prevent tax evasion and, in a transparent way, easily identifiable to society, we will reduce speculation abuse, despite the fact that otherwise citizens acting in good faith will not suffer any disadvantage in this respect. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-21-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Tilki. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have another bill that responds to the changes in life. I am particularly pleased that the Secretary of State has pointed out that we want to set such a course for our settlements, because we all feel, understand and see, and perceive that the trend is indeed to transform an area outside of the territory into an area, which is becoming more and more widespread, not only in larger cities, not only in cities with county rights, but also in smaller settlements, and then there will be empty areas in the centre of the settlements, which can be built up. Secretary of State said it wasn't a criminal tax. I think so, too, and we believe that this will be a fair and just regulatory system. It is very important that a good- faith customer is obviously not affected by this. Since you have given such a detailed explanation, Mr State Secretary, as to why this bill is important and acceptable to us, I ask you with a calm conscience, also the opposition representatives, to accept and support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-21-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Well, we have a nice bill ahead of us. You can read it through, you can run through the bill once, and well, well, well, well, well, how good it is to stand up to the government, well, it may not be called corruption, but it can also be a tricky subject, but obviously it can also affect corruption, because often it goes into the interior of a cheaply acquired property because there are mergers with the right head of the local government, so that they can bring it into the area, and there is a tough brake here. And look how good that is. I'm not used to Fidesz-KDNP doing this. Then you start to think, and you put it in the environment, why now, why not in 2010, you make such a bill, and then you realize, as you think, whoops, where are the most valuable real estates. Well, obviously the most expensive are the properties in the capital, around the capital. If the outskirts around the capital are included in the interior, there will be real changes, and even more serious cities with county rights, while in small villages it is not significant, because the value of the field may be greater than that of an unsold property located at the end of the village, which may be worth just less than the field, the property in the interior. [[18.30]] Well, obviously, this could have been a factor in the sudden emergence of this legislation. Obviously, debauchery, such craftsmanship, when such serious incomes become the property of some, must be prevented or taxed in some way or subject to tax. Mr. Secretary of State said that the value of the property is 50 times the average, and that 3169 hectares have been spent in the last 17 years, and that it has made 235 billion forints in profits for people in the last 17 years. Well, I would be very curious, and I would be very poetic to ask how many of these 235 billion forints have migrated into the pockets of the Oligarchs of Fidesz, the people around Fidesz, which they have seen how this thing works now, so that the opposition section in Budapest will not be able to use now. Nevertheless, the intention is very good. The intention is very good, so it is really necessary, and it really must be prevented. Turning to a slightly different topic, the 90 percent levy has already been raised here in the same order of magnitude as the personal income tax issue in the case of severance payments after the 2010 government change. If I remember correctly, it didn't stop at that magnitude. It's just a question of whether, if it didn't stop, it could stand the test of constitutionality. However, it is certainly justified not to allow such incomes to fall into some's pockets untaxed. So the purpose of the bill itself is in any way good, and it is quite interesting for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-21-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Representative Sándor Szabó, notary of the Parliament, is the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, it is obvious that when an area outside of the area is included in the area, its value increases naturally. It can also be real, and in many cases we have seen it, that it is true that, if these land or real estate is sold afterwards, certain speculations may lie behind it. It can be a very good goal if, by the way, these speculation abuses are tightened up by the current legislation and these abuses are contained in some way, and the acquisition of assets that may be generated by some form of levy or call it otherwise, whether by some kind of tax or by some kind of tax. According to the current legislation, the rate of this levy would be 90 per cent. Basically, we say that the reduction of speculation efforts must be supported and absolutely important. However, we would also draw attention to what the Constitutional Court's decision has said, according to which a public burden with a value of more than 75 per cent is clearly intended for criminal purposes and, as such a public burden, could call into question its constitutionality. So what we can say is that with the aim of the proposal, the MSZP basically agrees with and supports it and the constitutional concerns will have to be addressed by the rapporteur. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-21-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Hajdu. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-71	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. I would also like to link the amendment to the Law of the Year on the levy with my fellow Member, as he has explained, and I would not like to mention this for a longer time. It certainly affects Budapest, and I would like to raise it more and more as a question, because there are a few things that do not come out of this, but this is a specific problem for Budapest as a whole. One of them is that Budapest has a government-approved TSZT, so it has a spatial structure plan, it has a fully-fledged M0, there is a Budapest regulatory plan, and every district has not been for too long, because it has now had deadlines, district regulation plans, and everyone has this settlement picture plan, which was an extra cost for us. They're classified as forests, and they're agricultural. They don't do it, but the grass grows rich in it. Only in my constituency there are 8 million square meters of free space, only a small part of which is included in the area, but this could be excluded from farming so far. So one of them is that if the structure allows it, the Budapest regulatory plan allows it, the district allows it, but it is still in a farming zone, then what happens, I can subtract it from the rules of removal from farming, or I have to pay for it, and even this penalty 90 percent. It's not the municipality's property. Mr Secretary of State has mentioned that there is no financial disadvantage for citizens here. These lands are owned by private individuals. These individuals are not able to produce here, although they try to start some of them with such dog walkers and homeless neighborhoods and other, but the crop is harvested by other harvesters, so there is no point in farming within the M0 section. A lot of people tried that, but because he's not gonna harvest, they're not gonna do anything about the area. Since it is not yet taxable, because it is not an inland area, it does not have to pay a tax, and it does not need to be paid by private individuals, even if it is indoors, at least in our district this kind of land tax has not yet been introduced. If it's owned by this company, you'll have to pay for it naturally. So the question is that, on the basis of the existing zoning rules, the spatial structure and regulatory plan, and the fact that it has to be withdrawn from agriculture, and in addition to selling and affecting the owner, because it has to pay the 90 per cent transfer fee or what we call it, so he pays even two, he can't get rid of it. That's one of the problems. So the formula isn't that simple. I mentioned this once today that there are two kinds of property. There's named property, when we know by location number which farm owner's land, maybe a chief doctor somewhere is this peasant farmer, but he's got his land and he's got the undivided common land. Undivided joint ownership of this 8 million is accounted for by a whole significant part, an undivided joint owner of around 2450. The reason I consider it a punishment is because in this case, there is no point in investigating, looking for who these owners are, we're doing a ragweed cut at our own expense, because we can't bill this 2600 owners for the cost of ragweed if we're forced to cut them because we can't find them. We don't have access to data, we can't trace it, it's 400-500, maybe 600, I'm at 400-500, and we don't know where they are at all, and they have no small area, such undivided common property. Not to mention that he doesn't even know that this strip is his or that strip because it's an undivided common property. I mention this because the levy can be stated in this way, but it is a blockade in terms of the capital's ownership and ownership. This is what Budapest looks like in a circle, so it is not just a constituency, but all of them. So the gates of Budapest or any external development of Budapest will be blocked by this levy law. [[18.40]] Although, given the Győr example, I think that something is justified, but 90 percent is an incredible weight. Therefore, because they are not completely clear and clear, I think it would be important for me to know these questions, so it can be classified at all, even for public purposes. Here we passed a law on real estate records recently, maybe last week, and in the law on real estate records, there was a passage that if there was a public park next to a forest area or a public park next to a residential property, that law allowed it to merge. That's what we agreed to. These are some land near residential real estate, by the way, or near a public park, because there is one. That's how it should be interpreted, because that's where we accepted it recently. With such a blur, I cannot say that we support this law as a Democratic Coalition. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-21-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There is now room for further speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-21-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to recommend to Congressman Gyüre that the French essayist and philosopher living in the Middle Ages, who is probably familiar with the Hungarian Nation, should read that: "It gives rise to a strong imagination. I didn't think it was possible to get here in the reading of the bill, that it could create all sorts of conspiracy theories about who it was written against and for whom and whose protection it was written. I think it's stupid. With regard to the headnote speaker of DK, I also feel like I am in the polemia around the Puskás Arena, because once there is a problem that there are no trees and no trees, and then there is news that there are too few parking spaces. It is interesting that an ex-district mayor from Budapest is lobbying in addition to bringing in outskirts, because if we involve the fields and there is, as he said, a forest, then obviously those forests must be cut down. In connection with the undivided common land, these have been settled, it will reach Budapest, it is already taking place in the countryside, and then it will be easier for a metropolitan district to do so. I think that for the person who will be able to pay for this, there is no need to feel sorry for the man who owns the land. I feel completely justified and fair in levying this levy, and I stress that it may solve problems where there are empty settlements or street lines, and here I am not thinking of segregations, of course, to a representative, but even in a city with county rights and in the capital, where it is possible to build, but obviously it is preferable to have such a transaction. I believe that this can be an important piece of legislation for a municipal manager as well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-21-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members that someone still wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, wish, please, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-11-21-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I would like to clarify myself for the sake of the protocol, because, if I remember correctly, in my previous speech, I mentioned an accidental entry into force on 1 February 2019, which would obviously be retroactive legislation and thus lead to immediate unconstitutionality. Fortunately, I made a mistake, not a co-difficator of the bill, because it has its entry into force on 1 February 2020 and would thus be in line with the provisions of the Stability Act if this House were to support it. In addition to technical clarification, I would also like to address, in substance, the concerns that this is in any context with the outcome of the municipal elections. And I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the phenomenon mentioned by the Members of Parliament, which is that in the area of Budapest and in cities with major county rights, the expansion of the external area and the investment in real estate on it has been the result of recent years. And most of all, thanks to God, the Hungarian economy is performing better, and as a result, especially in Budapest, but also in cities with larger county rights, a property price increase has also started, which obviously also started a kind of population exchange, and we see signs that suggest that real estate investment on the outskirts of larger cities is becoming attractive. So it might have been possible to pass this law in 2010, but it wouldn't have made sense at the time, because as a result of socialist-free democrat government, the country's economic performance and thus the property prices were below the bottom of the frog. Therefore, it was not a problem to start these investments on existing and in-house real estate. This has been the result of a thousand other, environmental, sustainability and in many ways unfortunate developments in recent years. I would also like to draw attention to what Congressman Tilki has said, so that we do not deny that the cities with the right of the county are also full of brownfield areas. If I can bring you another debate, not just the Puskás Stadium case, let me bring you the project under the alias of the so-called athletic stadium, a small part of which is the athletic stadium. It's actually a complex North-Chepel suburban development program, the most important part of which, if you put the stadium in parentheses, is actually a useless, actually polluting area, in fact virtually unviable, reconnecting it to the city's blood circulation. Obviously not the start-up of such investments in brownfields, especially in such favourable real estate market conditions, is the goal of the government, and this bill serves this well with a certain guiding effect. In fact, the option of sub-zoning from the outside to the interior and the start-up of real estate investment there makes it less favourable than the other investments in brownfields and recultivations. So there is a competition between projects, and we hope that, in addition to everyone's freedom to decide which type of investment to start, but projects of a brownfield and recultivation nature will be as attractive as the development of real estate from outside. And I would just like to say briefly to Mr László Hajdu that I am a little embarrassed because he has raised issues here, as well as the rules on the removal of grass from agriculture, which, although I think, are important issues, I do not even claim that the regulatory environment in these areas is problem-free, but these have nothing to do with the bill on the table. And I think that's okay, because if we messed up these things, we'd be causing a lot of complications. Therefore, if there really is a reason to amend the legislation in this regard, these must be treated separately. I think that the scope of this proposal is quite clear, because it links the transfer fee to a single moment, it is the internalisation of the property from the outside and the subsequent sale of the property. [[18.50]] So in this way, what happened to the area, after what other rules apply to it, how to carry out activities in these areas in the public interest, these properties or undivided common property owned by individual owners, mentioned by you, are completely irrelevant from this point of view and not covered by the bill. In fact, I think that if we started machinating or perhaps adding to the bill in this direction, we would only have more problems than we could now solve. We have, of course, recorded their comments on the level of the levy, and I do not believe that this is essentially set in stone. We believe that it is worth setting a rate of duty which, on the one hand, has sufficient deterrent powers to reduce real estate speculation and, on the other hand, cannot be considered to be of a criminal nature. This is also true in the sense that it does not entail any additional payment, because this is in fact an automatic price increase due to an act outside the ownership, i.e. to the entry from the outer area into the territory. If there is no such price increase, then obviously there is no payment obligation. So if someone sells it at the same price as they did when they were outside, bought it, after entry into the interior, then he has no obligation to pay a levy. However, there is no doubt that the Constitutional Court has said similar things when it comes to the taxation of severance payments, but I think that this was a tax policy of a different nature and, in this sense, it is also subject to a different assessment in a constitutional sense. Thank you very much for the speeches, for the support and for the non-supporting but constructive speeches, and I would like to ask all Members once again for the support of the bill. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-21-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, My fellow Members, the amendments were made by 16:00 today. Next up is the 2011 CXC on national public education. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary T/8003. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, a representative of nationality, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language, and then continue his speech in Hungarian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-77	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Der Ausschuss der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten hat den Gesetzvorschlag: Modifizierung des nationalen, einheitlichen Bildungsgesetzes CXC vom Jahr 2011 mit der Nummer T/8003. für das Parlament um in der Generaldebatte zu besprechen am 04. 11. 2019 eingerecht. Erlassen sie mir bitte, dass ich als Beauftragter Parlamentsabgeordneter des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten die Bedeutung und den Hintergrund dieses durch uns erarbeiteten und mit den betroffenen Regierungsabteilungen und mit allen Fraktionen vorangehend schon abgesprochenen Gesetzvorschlages bekannt gebe. Mr President, Dear House, On 4 November 2019 the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary submitted the 2011 National Education. CXC. T/803. Bill No. 1. Allow me to explain the background and significance of the legislative proposal that we have drawn up as a representative of the nationalities in Hungary, which we have already agreed with the relevant wallets and all parliamentary factions in advance. On the basis of the bill, the 2011 CXC on national public education. As of 1 January 2020, row 6 of Annex 8 to Law No 8 is amended by reducing the lower limit of the national minority allowance from the current 30 per cent to 10 per cent and by increasing its upper limit to 40 per cent instead of the current 30 per cent. The aim of the bill is to partially compensate for the shortage of national minority educators, which has caused an increasing problem in Hungarian ethnic education institutions in recent years, and to keep the qualified professionals in two ways for the Hungarian nationalities. On the one hand, for those ethnic teachers who have already been entitled to the national minority allowance, because at least 50 percent of their fixed working time has been taught in ethnic languages, the rate of the national minority allowance is increased from 30 per cent to 40 per cent. On the other hand, for those ethnic teachers who have not been entitled to a nationality allowance, we introduce two categories of differentiated allowances of a lower percentage. In particular, national minority teachers who are permanently in a kindergarten, in a school, in a dormitory, during at least one hour, but less than 20 percent of their weekly working time with education and education in a minority language, will receive an allowance of 10 per cent, while those who pursue education and training in a minority language as a percentage of their fixed working time of at least 20 per cent, but less than 50 per cent, will receive a supplement of 25 per cent from 1 January 2020. In addition to the amendment to the Annex to the Public Education Act, the introduction of the two new categories of rights requires, of course, the XXXIII of 1992 on the system for the promotion of teachers and the status of civil servants. 326/2013 implementing law in public education institutions. amendment of the government decree with the same content. The amendment of the Government Decree No 326/2013 has already been agreed in advance by our committee, and the State Secretary responsible for the relevant EMMI Education has officially launched the amendment, so it is expected that the Government will accept it in December 2019 and publish it in the Gazette, so that there will be no obstacle to the introduction of the increase and differentiation of nationality allowances on the 1st of January 2020. In order to maintain the minority educators on the field and to improve the appreciation of national minority educators, the current amendment to the Public Education Act has been preceded by an increase of the minimum and maximum value of the national minority allowance from 10 per cent to 15 per cent from 1 January 2019 to 30 per cent from 1 January 2019. I would like to refer back to the fact that the 2011 CXC on national public education concerning the increase of the nationality bonus from 15 percent to 30 percent. T/2061 on the amendment of Law No 2061 During the general debate in Parliament on 16 October 2018, my fellow Members Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Gergely Arató raised their opposition to agree with the increase in the bonus, but they proposed to reconsider the differentiation of the amount of the bonus. At the time, I also said in my authorial reply that we agree with this point, and as we can increase the bonus to 40 percent, it makes sense and there is something to differentiate from, we will also introduce a differentiated bonus proportionate to education in the language of nationality, which is already included in this bill. At the same time, we will ensure that all ethnic educators who participate in national minority education receive a proportionate, differentiated nationality allowance, which will affect more than 4100 ethnic teachers regardless of nationality and maintenance. As a result of the introduction of the three-time increase and differentiation, in 2020 the gross nationality bonus to be paid is HUF 2493 million, i.e. nearly HUF two and a half billion, with a budget of HUF 2 billion and a social contribution tax of HUF 917 million, already insured in July 2019. The 40 per cent bonus for university education is HUF 81 200 per month gross, HUF 73 080 per month gross for college education, which, in our opinion, does not compensate for foreign or even domestic market income opportunities, but is clearly indicative for our ethnic teachers that they are our first priority. [[19.00]] I would like to thank the Hungarian Government, the entire Hungarian Parliament, all Members for supporting the proposals of the Hungarian nationalities and for providing the financial coverage necessary for the continuation of the programme in the 2018 Central Budget Act for the launch of the national minority educator programme, and then in the 2019 and 2020 Central Budget Act. This bill itself is only a few sentences, but its significance is still of paramount importance for the future of Hungarian nationalities. What exactly is this about? I would like to inform you that the public education system, institutional network and structure of the 13 nationalities in Hungary are different in many respects, but what we have been constantly feeling for almost a decade and a half and can be said for all nationalities is the numerical and significant lack of quality in the education of national minorities, the worsening situation of the education of national minorities. Between September 2016 and February 2017, a full national survey was carried out in the area of national nursery schools to determine the specific deficit of the national education teacher, as the return and confirmation of the mother tongue of our children should take place in the first stage of the national nursery school. Of the 13 nationalities living in Hungary, seven ethnic minorities have an officially ethnic kindergarten, Croatian, German, Roma, Romanian, Serbian, Slovak and Slovenian nationalities, six ethnicities have no ethnic kindergartens operating as registered institutions in Bulgaria, Greece, Poland, Armenian, Ruthenian and Ukrainian. The situation of the seven nationalities with nationality kindergartens also differs in many respects, depending on their location in Hungary, how far they are from the mother country, what the number of people of the national minority is, and so on. Thus, there are common points on the issue of national minority kindergartens, but also specific features per nationality, such as on most ethnic issues, so not all nationalities can be given the same template solution for all problems. In addition, the Roma in Hungary are also in a particular situation compared to other nationalities, since while other nationalities try to bring children of national minorities together in smaller or larger minority kindergartens and provide them with quality ethnic education, in the case of Roma children, the problem of segregation may arise at any time. The gender educator's survey and project covered all seven ethnic pre-schools. I would now like to present the problem with the combined results of a survey of German ethnic preschools with the largest kindergarten network. According to the official register, 215 German ethnic preschools are located in Hungary. It is a coincidence, or perhaps even a fateful coincidence, but it is a fact that Hungarian ethnicity across the border has exactly 215 Hungarian ethnic preschools in neighbouring countries. According to the Public Education Act, there can be three types of minority kindergarten in Hungary: monolingual, i.e. ethnic mother tongue, bilingual, where education takes place in most ethnic and, to a lesser extent, in Hungarian, in Roma, Gypsy cultural education. Obviously, the six nationalities can be affected by the first two types of nationality kindergarten. Only one kindergarten of the 215 German national minority kindergartens, Valéria Koch in Pécs, and only five years of monolingual education in German ethnic language. The other 214 kindergartens are taught in two languages. According to the Public Education Act and the National Education Directives, children who receive national minority education have to be treated in more than half of their education time in nationality languages, which means that both kindergarten teachers working in ethnic groups should have a degree in nationality. There are 568 ethnic groups in the 215 German national minority kindergartens, with 1136 pre-school teachers of nationality per group. On the other hand, the actual number of German kindergarten teachers is only 662, i.e. the number of missing German ethnic educators is 474, which is 41.7 percent of the required number, so almost every other German ethnic educator is missing. If we look at and group the aggregated data by kindergarten, then on the one hand, the number of kindergartens where both kindergarten teachers have German ethnic qualifications is only 15.4 percent of all kindergartens. In other words, only one in seven kindergartens are fully subject to the conditions of nationality education according to the law. On the other hand, the number of kindergarten schools where there are more kindergarten teachers with national qualifications than there are ethnic groups, 39 kindergartens, 18.1 percent of all kindergartens. At these kindergartens, the minimum requirement is to ensure that at least one German minority teacher is still insured in each group from the loss of a minority kindergarten teacher for a shorter or longer period. In all other German national minority kindergartens, two thirds of the kindergartens have a maximum of one German national kindergarten teacher per group, i.e. in the case of temporary or permanent loss of any German nationality kindergarten teacher, even one national kindergarten teacher per group cannot be guaranteed for any other reason. Finally, at the time of the survey, in 2016, and at the beginning of 17 German kindergartens, 10 percent of the kindergartens were less German ethnic kindergarten teachers than German ethnic groups. In nine kindergarten schools, there were no full-time preschool teachers with a degree in nationality, and in four kindergartens there were no longer German ethnic groups in 2016 due to the persistent lack of nationality educators. On this basis, it should be said that, only on the basis of nationality education, it is not yet possible to continue an effective education of German nationality in about two thirds of German national preschools. This difficult situation has been further enhanced by several factors in recent years. On the one hand, large-scale migration to Austria and Germany, the need for an increased German language educator, has accelerated the employment of German ethnic teachers in a foreign German language area. With regard to German nationality, there is also a serious risk and a problem that there is no higher education in Austria and Germany, so graduates from Hungarian universities and colleges from the German ethnic kindergarten teacher's degree are welcome in Austria, Germany, Switzerland or even in South Tyrol, even in the position of head of kindergarten. Based on the data surveyed and processed by national minority authorities, the other six nationalities also have significant 10-25 percent lack of nationality educators, and their lack of kindergarten educators is close to 80 people. Thus, the total deficit of the seven ethnic minorities in Hungary was around 550 persons at the beginning of 2017. [[19.10]] I would like to refer here and refer back to Mr Brenner Koloman, also on 16 October 2018 the T/2061. He noted in the general debate of the legislative proposal No.3 that serious problems in the area of nationality teaching and teaching cannot be solved by a so-called simple increase in the allowance, since this is a more comprehensive issue. I completely agree with that point. This is why in 2016 we developed the National Education Programme, which is a complex, comprehensive assessment and analysis of the current situation, sets out the goals to be achieved, the tasks needed to achieve the objectives and the ways in which they can be resolved. Measures to promote the retention and increased respect of national minority teachers, the increase of the minority pedagogue bonus fourfold over two years in three steps and by introducing differentiation and extending it to all ethnic educators is the first point of this programme, which can now be fulfilled by this amendment as of 1 January 2020. In parallel, we prepared and in 2018 launched the teaching scholarship system for national education students. I am pleased to report that in February 2019 we entered into a scholarship agreement with 84 first-grade national education students for the 2018-19 academic year, with effect from 1 September 2018. About three weeks ago, we concluded the contracts for the 2019-20 academic year, in which we have now concluded with 317 students from the first, second and third years of national pre-school teachers, as well as from the first year of the ethnic teacher, teacher and teacher students. I can now announce that the 2020 Central Budget Act provides financial coverage for further enlargement, so that we can extend the scholarship system to all six years of the teaching, teacher and teacher students in the year 2020-21 so that we can conclude a scholarship agreement with some 650-700 national teachers in September 2020. In December and January 2020, we will provide extensive information on both the increases in national minority allowances and the educational scholarship of the national minority in secondary schools, and after 20 percent increase in the first-year student education contracts in 2019, we trust in the 2020-21 academic year that the number of first-year students entering into the scholarship education contract will increase by up to 40-50 percent. Finally, the third major area of the minority educator's programme is specifically the provision of personal, material and legal conditions for the education of nationality teachers, at the ten universities and colleges of nationality, which are significantly higher and significantly better in quality. Based on the surveys of the last three years and their results, it is clear that the education of nationality teachers is the bottlenecks and the greatest task is to ensure an adequate, expected level of education of nationality. In the last five years, 75-80 national children's educators received a vocational degree and a degree each year on the average of the five years. The current situation has fundamentally endangered the functioning of national pre-schools due to the lack of a nationality educator, which is why immediate measures were needed. Therefore, on the basis of the discussions with eight universities and colleges who have completed the teaching of nationalities, and on the basis of the consultations with the two competent State Secretariats of the Ministry of Human Resources, about 150 teachers of nationalities who have already had their primary education in the short term could receive training of around 60 persons per year for the relevant seven nationalities each year. Therefore, from 1 January 2019 we would like to achieve a significant increase in the number of trainees, a significant improvement of the quality of the training, in particular the relevant nationality language skills and nationality content, and a direct contract to ensure that the graduates of national children's educators start their ethnic education career in Hungary. From 1 January 2020, we also intend to provide targeted support to the ten universities teaching, teaching and teaching nationality in order to increase the number of participants in the training and to improve the quality of the training. On the input side, objective measurement of nationality language competences shall be provided and for those who do not have at least a secondary language level, a zeroth grade shall be provided. In the short term, the current 15-20 percent rate of education in nationality language in the education of nationality should be increased to at least 50 per cent compared to 80-85 per cent in Hungarian, and the rate should be reversed within a few years. On the exit side, objective measurement should also be introduced, insofar as there are no students who do not speak nationality language or teacher language at senior level. For more than a year now, there has been serious professional work and preparation with the involvement of all stakeholders to assess the specific situation of nationality education, teacher and teacher education, and to identify the tasks needed to solve the teaching of nationality. He participated in this, attended by all ten universities, all relevant departments, the Ministry of State for Public Education of the EMMI, the State Secretary for Higher Education of the ITM, the State Secretary for Church and Nationality Relations of the Prime Minister's Office, the German Institute for Education in Hungary, the Ministry of Education of the Hungarian Ministry of Education, the National POK, the Catholic Pedagogical Institute, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre, and, of course, the educational rapporteurs and experts of the relevant national minority self-governments. In the spring of 2019, the expert working groups and I developed a survey to fully assess the needs of ethnic primary and secondary schools and colleges, the number of actual national teachers and the lack of a minority educator. At the end of the spring period, we conducted a sharp test study on 13 ethnic public education institutions to test the system. Based on the evaluation, the necessary amendments have been made, and by the end of February 2020 we will carry out the survey and complete evaluation of all ethnic primary and secondary schools, colleges, all seven relevant nationalities and all maintainers. As a result, on the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the education of the Hungarian minority educator in general, we will probably have, for the first time, full and concrete data on the nationality education, on which we can base the teaching, teaching and teaching of nationality for the next two decades. [[19.20]] In this way, I would like to thank you all in public for the help you have given me for this work. Personally, I have enjoyed the solution-oriented, responsible, dedicated work that the two working groups have done over the past year. The bill has, of course, been dealt with in advance with the relevant wallets, the government, all parliamentary factions, and so I respectfully ask you to support the T/803. The adoption of our bill. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2019-11-21-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to say in advance that, of course, as has already been said here in the introduction, the Government supports this proposal, because it has been drawn up jointly or in agreement with us. This amendment is necessary because the 2020 Finance Act, on the proposal of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, created the resources needed to raise the national minority bonus fund from 30% to 40%. The bonus has already increased from 10 per cent in 2018 to 15 per cent in 2018 and subsequently from 15 per cent in 2019 to 30 per cent in 2019, so the increase will take place for the third time in these cycles. The bonus increase concerns all ethnic teachers eligible for the nationality bonus. According to the current legislation, a teacher who does at least 50 percent of his working time with education and education in a mother tongue is entitled to receive a nationality allowance. In their case, this means that the rate of nationality allowance has gradually increased fourfold over the last three years. The Committee has also proposed that teachers who have not yet received a nationality allowance and who have completed education and training in their mother tongue during 50 per cent of their working time should receive a lower, differentiated nationality allowance. In order for the differentiated nationality allowance to be paid as of 1 January 2020, following the current amendment of the Public Education Act, this year's XXXIII of 1992 on the promotion system for teachers and the status of civil servants. 326/2013 on the implementation of Law 326/2013 in public education institutions. The terms of entitlement should be laid down in the government decree for teachers who have not yet received a supplement, as the Member of the Expoze has mentioned. In 2017, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary developed a National School Development Program, which was extended to teaching and teaching nationality in 2018. The aim of the programme is to increase the number of young people who choose the minority educator's career and the quality of the education of nationality educators, to make language training more effective, and to keep the ethnic teachers on the field and to improve their appreciation. This programme also includes a significant increase in national minority allowances. I see a chance that as a result of the implementation of the programme, there will be an increase in the number of participants in minority pre-schooling, improved training and the quality of national pre-school education and school education. The Committee has also worked closely with the Ministry of Human Resources, alongside other wallets, in drawing up its programme. Enhancing the effectiveness of national education and education education can only be envisaged in close cooperation with the relevant ethnic communities. I believe that in this series of events this can be seen in action. The national education and school development programme is also an excellent example of active national interest. Therefore, the payment of the increased or differentiated nationality allowance, as I said, should not take place until 1 January 2020 unless, in Annex 8 to the Public Education Act, the minimum percentage of the nationality bonus is changed to 10 per cent, to a maximum of 40 per cent. As the source of the increase in the nationality bonus was created by next year's budget law and the payment of the bonus requires Nkt. To amend Annex 8, we support the proposal of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, so the government supports the proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-21-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Maria Kállai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Indeed, national education is undoubtedly one of the areas that fundamentally determine the future of nationalities, and it is therefore very important that we pay attention to the way in which national communities imagine the legislative, budgetary framework for the formation of education and education, and we have heard from the Member how, and in what way, they appreciate the situation that today characterizes the country's ethnic education in the system going up from kindergarten, on the one hand, and what steps it takes to really appreciate the work of teachers working here. This is also the purpose of the bill itself, since the bill submitted by the committee of nationalities aims precisely at the fact that in the public education institutions in Hungary, as Mr.Operator said, there has been an increasing problem in recent years, on the one hand, with the shortage of numbers and, on the other hand, with the training of qualified professionals, and, on the other hand, with respect to the work of those working in the system. Some thoughts have already been made, of course, from the Secretary of State, Member, on the background of the legislative amendment proposal before us, but it is very, very important that, in cooperation with the EMMI, the minority committee practically established in 2017, as a first step, the kindergarten development programme, which was extended in 2018, as we have already heard, to ethnic teachers and teachers. And it is very, very important that the programme was aimed at increasing the number of young people who chose the minority educator's career and the quality of the education of nationality educators, strengthening the effectiveness of language training, keeping people on the field and improving their appreciation. In this programme, as we have heard today, it is possible to provide a scholarship, as it is possible to grant a scholarship to students participating in the teaching of nationality, as well as to support the training itself as much as possible, and this proposal includes in its focus a significant increase in national minority allowance, since from 1 January 2018, the percentage of the bonus fund increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent, from 1 January 2018 to 30 per cent of the bonus fund, and from 1 January 2020 it will continue to increase to 40 per cent of the bonus fund, and will affect virtually all ethnic pedagogues eligible for nationality allowances. Under the current legislation, as Mr. State Secretary said, a teacher who does at least 50 percent of his working time in a mother tongue is entitled to a minority allowance. This means, and it is really good to say, that this allowance has quadrupled in the last three years. The current legislative amendment proposal proposes, in effect, to increase, differentiate and extend the bonus, and the conditions for this are laid down in the 2020 Budget Act. However, for the payment of the allowance from 1 January 2020, it is necessary to amend Annex 8 to the National Public Education Act, in which the rate of the national minority allowance is to be set at a minimum of 10%, up to a maximum of 40%, and which is to be determined by the T/8003 on the amendment of the National Public Education Act submitted by the Committee. It includes an increase in the supplement, its extension and its differentiation. [[19.30]] We respectfully recommend the adoption of the proposal of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group also considers that it is extremely important to keep the national minority teachers already on the ground, to train and improve the appreciation of national minority teachers, and therefore our group fully agrees with these goals and with these efforts, and we support the proposed bill. We wish that the increase in the number of 4100 teachers on the track, the increase in the supplement for those on the track, the extension and differentiation, if any, will help to promote ethnic education and be part of the complex development package that our fellow Member has presented. Nevertheless, I also ask with respect for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-21-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Potocskané Anita Kőrösi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speaker, Mr. Secretary. I would like to introduce the 2011 CXC on national public education in T/8003. a better position on the amendment of the law. Annex 8 to the Act would be amended in such a way that the lower limit of the so-called 30 per cent nationality allowance would be changed to 10 per cent and the upper to 40 per cent. Jobbik has always considered it important to appreciate teachers working in domestic ethnic education, and, of course, as a national party, we also add that it would be a pleasure to have students and teachers living in disconnected areas, who are also involved in Hungarian ethnic education there, with increased concern from the successor states. The current bill would increase the threshold for the nationality bonus by referring to differentiation. One eye cries and the other laughs. He laughs because the increase from 30% to 40% is also a noticeable increase. However, the possibility of a reduction from 30 to 10 makes him cry. Of course, it is an important idea to give greater appreciation to teachers who play a greater role in the area of the original goal, but one thing must not be forgotten. Today's Hungarian teachers' wages are outrageously low. Although Secretary of State Bence Rétvári can stand up here every sitting day and tell the mandatory mantras about what it has been in the last eight years, only that nine and a half years have passed since the Orange Cabin Revolution. So it would be appropriate not to point backwards. The advocacy organisations of the educational society in Hungary, which were often intimidated on a political basis and deprived of their autonomy, who were underpaid, have not declared a strike by accident in one of the EU's most active, meaningless administrative burdens. When Romanian teachers bring home more than HUF 30,000 a month than their Hungarian colleagues, when the so-called screening basis for teachers' wages was frozen to the minimum wage of HUF 101 500 in 2014, thus pulling severe tens of thousands a month out of their pockets, it is an infinitely sad thing to reduce all the allowances already achieved. Parents leave their dearest treasure, their child, not a sack of potatoes to educators. It is therefore important that a more financially and morally respected teaching society takes care of students. János Man laments in his book of 1886 on the material situation of the folk teachers that the wages of a village elementary school teacher are barely three times the wages of the day laborer. Let's translate this to the current minimum wage of 100,000 forints. Based on this, a beginner teacher should also bring home a net of HUF 300,000. What would János Ember say if, by some miracle, he came between us and faced with the fact that, over a century and a half, domestic education management had evolved to the point that the portfolio led by Kásler was able to reward the work of early teachers with less than one and a half times the minimum wage. In our view, we should not reduce the allowances. However, we can fully agree with the increase. And, of course, on this occasion, we would like to emphasise that without a serious, comprehensive sectoral wage increase, the Hungarian education issue will continue to grow. With such miserable wages, they will be unable to attract the best to the field and keep it there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-21-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. For a two-minute speech from the DK Group, MEP László Hajdu asked for the floor.
u2019-11-21-85	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! Mr. Secretary. The Democratic Coalition also supports this proposal, and we supported its idea. This has been said here in Parliament before. I would just like to make a comment that, in my constituency, it was for about 20 years that we called it minority ethnic education, and then, when the schools were born, it got out of our sight; however, it is very difficult to restore it by allowing a first class in schools. Also in the school where ethnic education was held in two classes from 1 to 8 every year. So when it came to deciding whether it would be a nationality class or a normal class, then nationality pulls the short straw, and such a tradition, 20 years of tradition, has been broken, and now there is not a single class where we independently teach as a nationality. And in the speech, which was very meaningful, very little has been said about whether or not the Klebelsberg Kunó Institutional Support Center has encountered such a problem, or whether such a negotiation or negotiation is taking place. Thank you very much. We support him, by the way. Thank you.
u2019-11-21-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Imre Ritter, as rapporteur, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-87	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank everyone for their support for the presentation. To my fellow Member, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi: I probably did not stress enough: the two new bonus categories of 10 and 25 percent concern only those ethnic teachers who have not been entitled to a nationality allowance so far, they did not receive any allowance at all, nor when they were 10, 15 or 30 percent. We have talked a lot about possible changes in the scope of entitlement, because, among other things, national minority teachers and teachers do a lot of ethnic work, such as ethnic language camps, ethnic international contacts, the preparation of ethnic children for ethnic youth competitions, participation in competitions, local, regional, national and other, and these activities are in their so-called untied time. If, on the other hand, we had changed the basis of entitlement and deviated from the time taken so far, which, with some modification, would essentially mean their activity according to the timetable, then we would have given more scope to subjective judgement by the institutional leaders, it would have been more difficult to objectively compare and measure the activity in the non-bound language of nationality. This could have resulted in different maintenance staff, different managers, where appropriate, not being treated in the same way and not being given the same degree of allowance, or teachers who have received between 10 and 15 and 30 percent so far could have fallen back into the lower bonus category. Therefore, in order to prevent this from happening, we did not touch the basic system of entitlement to compensation, but introduced two new categories. At the same time, of course, if we find a good professional solution for this at a later stage, which will objectively and uniformly ensure that, regardless of the maintenance, nationality or institution, there will be equal allowances for the same educator, regardless of the leader, for the same ethnic work, we will propose this. Now we didn't want to touch this consciously. The other question that arose was that everything I stressed was a maintenance part of this work. We have a very good relationship with President Klebelsberg's Vice-President; their colleagues are also involved. [[To intervene:]] With the Klebelsberg Center, yes. But that doesn't necessarily mean with the head of a number of district centers; I'm not saying that the relationship isn't the best, but many people are not aware of the importance of education and education and sometimes of their legislation. [[19.40]] They do not feel the positive change that we feel clearly in Hungarian politics for the last 5-6 years, and at this level the nationalities of Hungary are beneficiaries of. But I have to say, in terms of the bonus, I have received comments from two or three places that they did not receive as many allowances as they did. I checked these with the Klebelsberg leaders, and in every case, it turns out the information was wrong. Therefore, with regard to the bonus, it is certain that today, regardless of the maintenance and head of the institution in Hungary, the right holders will receive the nationality allowance required by law. The rest will be discussed in more detail on another occasion, which would facilitate the start-up and maintenance of ethnic classes. Thank you all for your support, and perhaps one more thing I think is very important. As I have said, it is obvious that we should thank you without reservation for the financial, legal and legal support that the nationalities in Hungary have received, the nationality bonus, the introduction of the minority pedagogical scholarship, and the support of the whole system, but I would like to say very clearly and clearly that this is not only a national interest, but also an elementary national interest. After all, by doing this work for our own well-conceived interests, we will also take up the entire scholarship competition with the National German Self-government as an administrator and with the other six national governments, so we hope that we will be able to train 200, 500, 1000 more ethnic teachers at a high level and put them into work in Hungary in a short period of time, which will reduce the educational shortage of the entire Hungarian education sector with 200-500-1000 well-trained teachers. So this is not only a nationality, but I think that it is an elementary national interest of every government, every party, every Member of Parliament, and this gives the Hungarian government and Hungary an absolute objective, realistic basis and moral right to establish a better relationship with the surrounding countries and to provide a better opportunity for the Hungarians beyond the borders with a good example of their own. So, if you will, it is an equally important issue for nationalities living on the border here in Hungary and for Hungarians living across the border. I didn't put it in there for a reason that there are 215 German ethnic kindergartens, just like the number of Hungarian ethnic kindergartens across 215 borders. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-21-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. We now have a general debate on the bill on the amendment of individual laws to improve health services and to reduce the activities of insecure, unclear healthcare providers until closure. Government referral T/8018. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda, who will say his speech, his exposé here on the stand. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári enters the speaker's stand.]]
u2019-11-21-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The aim of this proposal is also to ensure the highest possible level and the safest possible care for patients in Hungary. XCV 2005 on the modification of the laws on medicinal products for human use and other laws governing the pharmaceutical market. The reason for the amendment of the Act was that the market status of homeopathic medicinal products authorised for placing on the market prior to Hungary's accession to the European Union, with a therapeutic indication, is uncertain after 1 January 2020. The amendment makes it clear that homeopathic medicinal products with the indication can only remain on the market if they comply with the provisions of the EU pharmaceutical code and the domestic legislation transposing them. The 2006 XCVIII on the general rules for the provision of safe and economical pharmaceutical and medical aid and the distribution of medicinal products will be amended. Law, too. The amendments contained in this paragraph seek to eliminate contradictions and disputes in the application of the law, to establish a clear legal situation for all market participants and for pharmacy operators. These objectives are, among other things, the following. Support the further operation required to ensure the care of the population for small-scale pharmacies on the basis of their pre-existing entitlement; prohibit the withdrawal from the provision of additional services in a tender for the establishment of a pharmacy; strengthen the right of a pharmacist to decide; clarify the rules on the relocation of a public pharmacy. Dear House, T/8018. Another reason why we want to take action against abuses in the health services market is the adoption of bill No 1. The Hungarian Medical Chamber pointed out that there is an increase in the number of persons providing physical and mental health-related services who call themselves the honorary teacher doctor with the title "Apostrophe Doctor" or using a similar alternative title. The persons thus active do not have a degree that entitles them to use the title, degree, or degree, but the name they use is specifically intended to be confused with the official name and thus misleads those who wish to heal. In order to improve the quality of health services, it has become necessary to combat this undesirable phenomenon. The government is committed to ensuring that the Hungarian population can benefit from the best possible health care services and not become victims of fraud. In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to adopt laws to stop and liquidate the operation of so-called "apostrophe doctors" and to tighten up existing provisions. It is an important circumstance that abuse, in addition to endangering the health and physical and spiritual well-being of the population, also undermines trust in the knowledge of the authors of titles and grades. Abuse therefore goes beyond the health field and doctoral titles, giving offenders a number of opportunities for abuse outside the health sector. The aim of the legislator is to set up additional sanctions to help those who abuse it, to deter those who want to abuse it, so that the proposal serves to make health services transparent. Further, allow me to briefly describe the main elements of the amendment. The system of skills, titles, scientific degrees and their abbreviations are set out in the National Higher Education Act. As a result of this amendment of the law, a provision would be included in the Higher Education Act which explicitly states that the scientific degree, title and abbreviation which is regulated there can only be donated and used by the rightholder. [[19.50]] The prohibition and threat also apply to the unauthorised use of skills. In order to be able to combat abuses with the full force of the legal system, the Criminal Code and the Violent Law should also be amended. The amendment of the law includes the Btk. extension of the fact of curuzsing, as abuse in the health field not only arises in relation to medical practice, but also in the case of psychotherapy practice, natural medicine and non-conventional healing procedures. The Btk. It also covers the creation of a new situation for unauthorized education activities. In this context, documents issued in higher education, adult education and adult education receive enhanced legal protection. The purpose of this provision is to ensure that the perpetrators do not appear to possess useful knowledge by means of a document which appears to be a diploma or certificate, but which is otherwise useless. The amendment to the Violation Act includes an extension of the facts of the unauthorised use of the title, which will therefore be used for the purpose of the use of aliases which may be confused with existing titles. The bill therefore increases public confidence in the quality of health services, protects the prestige of scientific activities recognised by titles, and enhances the protection of designations related to the Hungarian Defence Office. Please support T/8018. and vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-21-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is József Kovács, our fellow Member. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Mr President introduced T/8018. Mr State Secretary, on the long list of bill No.1, gave a detailed description of the facts contained in the bill. I think that we should all agree that the government's aim is, in general, very much hope that it was, and it will be, that the Hungarian population will be able to benefit from the best and safest healthcare service compared to possible. This amendment, which we are talking about here, now concerns two very important areas. In terms of effective and safe patient care, as the Secretary of State has said, safe supply of medicines is extremely important. In the safe supply of medicinal products, people use and take very large quantities of so-called homeopathic medicines in Hungary, which can only be used if these medicinal products comply with the EU and Hungarian directives and the harmonisation of the two. It is also very, very important that these medicines should not be released in a window or on-call in the case of pharmacy distribution, only in the case of accessible and appropriate safe disposal can our countrymen choose from this if it is completely safe to regulate. In addition to the safe and economic supply of medicinal products, the bill also covers the provision of medical aid and the general rules on the distribution of medicinal products. It is also a very important matter, although it has been said before that regulation refines the conditions for the work of a pharmacist. This means that a pharmacist can fully exercise ownership in four pharmacists. In all four of them, you can do a pharmacist's professional activity, practice your profession, but in pharmacies your weekly working time should not exceed 60 hours for anyone. In the evening of public pharmacies, it is indeed very important that when a person uses the withdrawal of the authorisation in respect of insufficient traffic, traffic data or safety, he terminates the pharmacy he operated, then there is an obligation to continue operating, with a duration of six months. What is very important, however, is that state aid can be requested for this further operation. And when it comes to the establishment of a new pharmacy, as there is a certain movement in this, it is very important that the pharmacies to be established undertake additional services, of course, which comply with the legislation, and these additional services are a positive opportunity for the establishment of a pharmacy. However, there are a lot of people who promise these additional services, but at the moment of winning the tender, they remember that once they have won the right to operate the pharmacy, this should be withdrawn. This is a penalty in any way, according to the bill. What is very, very important is that, with regard to the Criminal Code, as you have said, the wording of the bill is added in certain areas to the so-called blessed doctors or apostrophe doctors. What is very, very important is that there are indeed many, if you like, false, non-graduary equivalents or even non-equivalent certificates that make you feel entitled to some operation. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] It is very important to note that only those who do this work according to the law of higher education can carry out education requiring a degree of science and achieve the scientific degree that they deserve. However, there are extremely many people who abuse this issue and give themselves different misleading, created, non-existent titles, and that is actually not doing the right professional work. And here it is very important, as you said, Secretary of State, that the category of quacking clearly belongs to the category of criminal offences. Thanks to this amendment, the use of the most important symbols can be sanctioned and regulated in a public-law sense. In the light of the above, the government is committed to developing the pharmacy service, so that users will be able to obtain the necessary medicines and regulated forms of homeopathic medicines, as well as recommending the safe exercise of the medical profession. This bill constitutes a strengthening regulatory system, which, by amending several laws, creates the possibility of combating abuse. I believe that this is an amendment to the health law that is acceptable to all of us, so I ask that, by voting in favour, when the time comes, all of you support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-21-92	Thank you, Congressman. I also welcome my fellow Members. We will continue with the keynote speeches. I give the floor to László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-21-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Before I deal with the bill itself, let me have a word with you about the previous sitting and today. Allow me to thank you on the previous day, let us say that during the second longest meeting day in history, participation in the House's management, the Registry Bureau, the House's notaries and fellow Members. [[20.00]] Here, however, in the leading presidents, regardless of party affiliation, the willingness to assist in this, let's say, ranking second, but still in a historical event. Thank you so much for letting us be a part of this. I would like to congratulate my fellow Member, Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, who has spent 29 hours in this Parliamentary horseshoe since 9 a.m. yesterday, taking into account this meeting, and we may be entering 30 hours. But I also congratulate those who have been prominent in the work, even on the pro-government side, that they have been present in most of the debate. I believe that this is definitely part of the previous day, no matter what we think about the bill giving cause and the debate that took place there. In addition to the fact that there was a historical event in the House, and in the smooth operation of this House there was a very large part of the House's employees, politicians essentially did what they did and what they were sent to Parliament to do. About the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, In the Expoze, as well as in the pro-government contribution, it was said that in several areas we are dealing with changes in certain health legislation that guarantee the safety of patients and citizens. The amendment of the legislation on the marketing of medicinal products is one of the key points of this amendment. It was said that certain rules regarding the safe supply of medicinal products to patients and their availability were needed to be amended. The aim in this case is good, and those which are included in the bill are eligible, I would like to see progress in that once and for all, and now for the long term, we are able to resolve the issue of pharmacy duty in a reassuring manner, as this still causes a lot of annoyance, not only for those who go to the pharmacy, not only patients or their relatives, but also very often for pharmacists and entrepreneurs who are interested in this supply of medicines. It is essential to establish a system that is reliable, which is predictable and which is relatively well achieved. To give you a very simple example: I live on Karcagon, I can give you an example of Karcagi, if someone in our town has a major problem, say, a broken leg, and it is absolutely necessary to obtain an anti-coagulation medicine in hospital care, unfortunately on a Sunday, or when it is Saturday afternoon, they can't get it in the otherwise 20,000 city, which is also a hospital seat, so it is the institutional center of the Kátai Gábor Hospital itself. Thus, the choice is either to travel to the Turkish Miklós 40 kilometers away or to Debrecen 60 kilometers away or to Szolnok, which, let us be honest, not many people can afford, especially if their family members are injured, who alone provides the family with mobility. The solution to such anomalies would be necessary, at least in hospital centres, or where the hospital seat is, the on-call pharmacy should be insured. We know that very often business interests or the lack of pharmacists or overload dictate that a pharmacy does not operate in an on-call system. We also know that patients don't always use services in the way they do in on-call care. We have heard a number of speeches here in the House that in the Balaton-coastal on-call pharmacies, not the specifically medical devices were the best, but, for example, very often after sexual intercourse pills were the highly sought-after products, and not the products that could otherwise be built or maintained an on-call service. This is, of course, an organizational issue, and we encourage the health government, in cooperation with the pharmacists, to carry out an overview of this and to develop a regulation that will result in comfortable, accessible, but safe and profitable care for patients. To move on: the current amendments are very good at taking action against those beneficial and misleading services and those providing such services, who can be described as benefactors. A lot of scientific titles, degrees, but more of a preconceived or realized degree is what makes the moods. And it is often associated with activities disguised as healing activities, and it is very often capable of deceiving patients. Unfortunately, very often the mixing of homeopathy or natural medicine itself and disguising it as a healing activity that can be done with scientific foundation are misleading. Who would not remember, for example, when not only patients encounter these, in my opinion, quacking behaviours at a private clinic or in the provision of a service disguised as a private order, but also often TV provided room for them. Several times, he performed spinal surgery on the late Budapest TV, for example, through television. I think it was one of the most bizarre parts. And unfortunately, these have reached quite a wide range, and there have been extremely watched shows. And you must not underestimate, of course, the mental disposition of healing, so you have to believe that man is able to heal, but very often they have abused and offered no medicinal product, or have done a banal procedure that was just about being deceived, fooling those who went there for the service. It's a very thin jersey, isn't it? Homeopathy regulation is also a highly controversial regulation, but this is not, of course, the subject of this bill. A sure, precise definition and definition of non-conventional healing procedures must be made in the proposal, quite rightly. Of course, those who use only appearances and mislead people must act in the strictest possible way. It is particularly important to include the misdemeanor of quacking in the Btk. I believe that it has been relatively well done and is consistent in serving protected persons, as well as the subject or conduct of the crime, in the situation where it has been placed. In connection with a professional feedback, I may ask for a reply from the State Secretary, as the Fidesz lead speaker, Dr. József Kovács, has also received a signal from the Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapist Clinical Professional Psychology of the Medical College, who, although welcoming the bill itself, often see things in it that correspond to their own request or to their previous position and respond to what they have proposed, still give criticism. On the one hand, they miss prior consultation and that the concepts have not been properly defined. If necessary, we will, of course, be able to forward this letter to Mr Secretary of State, although I think it is also available to you, and it is likely that the Secretary of State, the Ministry, has received this letter. I think it's worth clarifying to them. In fact, we did not consider it necessary to submit a proposal amending myself, even in my own right, given that otherwise, if the Committee on Welfare would agree with the intention of amending it, it could make the amendments itself, or even the wallet, if the legislative committee has a summary of the amendments, it can essentially make an amendment there. I believe that we can now expect some kind of expression from the wallet in this regard, given that you may also be able to look at this section from its representatives or from its decision-makers on how the debate is going to take place. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that the direction in this bill is good. It is very important to include important points and points of protection in the system for patients facing accelerated technological and extremely large communication and mass media challenges. One of the elements of this was the product sellers and other peddlers... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Shows.]] , regulation on product presentations. Perhaps this is a next step, and it is already specifically related to activities in a private sphere or in isolated places disguised as private orders. [[20.10]] It is very important that, from time to time, as the State Secretariat does, we assess the dangers that are lurking at patients and putting them within the legal framework, or otherwise act with new, even criminal or criminal, infringement tools to protect patients. Overall, we will be able to express our support for our group in the final vote, of course, but the direction of the bill is encouraging, and I believe that this will not be a particular problem. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2019-11-21-94	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, Mr notary, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-21-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief for two reasons. On the one hand, because my learned fellow Member Luke explained that we have been sitting here for a long time, or we are here in Parliament, and we have been arguing for quite a long time, and I do not wish to abuse the patience of many people here. On the other hand, we have before us the proposal on health issues, one of the few in which, as I see it, we agree on both the government and the opposition side. I would very much like to see many of these health-related proposals put before Parliament, and I think that we could work together very well. The proposal is obviously based on positive, corrective implementation, including in terms of objectives and chosen instruments. Absolutely eligible, whether it is the implementation of EU law on the fight against homeopathic medicinal products, the reversal of the application of the amendment, the safe operation of pharmacies, and the action against blessing doctors, which otherwise provides for the application of adequate penalties and penalties. So, on our part, this proposal is eligible. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2019-11-21-96	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu, the lead speaker of DK.
u2019-11-21-97	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Yes, this is the proposal that the Democratic Coalition can support without any problems. I would just like to make two comments. One of them. We solved the on-call system in my constituency, when I was mayor, without having been on call for about 5-8 years, and also in Budapest there are enough problems when a child rebels. We've announced a local government room by saying that the winner is the one who's going to take care of it. And then right now, we're looking at a three-call pharmacy, a 24-hour emergency. So now we're in luck, so that incentive worked. For some reason, this has not been successful before, and we have even been in negotiations when we would have paid just to have an on-call. They didn't take it because of the special requirements, because otherwise the on-call needs almost the same standard as if it was daytime opening hours. And my other comment is the various requests on the Internet, on television, on the phone, which are almost harassing. You know the phone numbers, I was personally found, I had a hip replacement, and at that moment, the news got to them, for about six months, I was constantly harassed to know, and that kind of post-treatment, that kind of massage. They're gonna give us our address, which I think probably comes from information that comes out of health institutions. But at that moment, they knew everything about me, and they wanted to offer me amazing things to go back to playing football, tennis. The Internet, as soon as I turn it on, is coming right up. So I think the proposal is justified, I agree with it, and we support it. Thank you. [[Mrs. Potocska Anita Kőrösi applauds.]]
u2019-11-21-98	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2019-11-21-99	Thank you very much. I just want to thank you briefly for the contributions from both pro-government and opposition sides. One by one, we are sitting here at the second bill tonight, when there is a fairly consistent picture, because everyone says the direction of the changes is to be supported. Some have already supported the bill itself on the opposition side. I also believe that we can protect people here from fraud and abuse who are in need of some kind of help from illness, and help people to obtain medicines in as many places as possible. There have been countless steps in recent years, and now the pharmacists have more than 50 percent of their holdings in each case, and we are trying to ensure the supply of medicines in as many places as possible with the assistance of pharmacists and pharmacists, and not in any other way. So thank you very much for all the speakers for their support, and I hope that in a few weeks' time, when we vote, we can vote by consensus. We have received the proposal from Professor Noémi Caesar, mentioned by Jobbik, so we agree that it is necessary to amend this text or not, but obviously we are also working with everyone for the greatest professional unity, professional organisations, and I see that the opposition parties were also partners in this evening. Thank you very much. [[Dr. József Kovács applauds.]]
u2019-11-21-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. That concludes the discussion of our agendas. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Here, too, I give the floor to Mr Bence Rétvári with the title "Gyarapodó Duna bend". You have the floor.
u2019-11-21-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I think we should be proud of a lot of people who live in the Danube Bend and make an excellent contribution to the country's success and success. Allow me to recall just a few of the last few months. For example, the Dunakanyari Lunczer pálinkaközözt, which, with its four products in the National Excellence Programme, became Top Pálinka excellence, and with its two pálinka, Pálinka excellence, or the Váci Dunakanya Theatre, which won the Grand Prix at the Brest Theatre Festival with Uncle Vanya's performance, was an international success and invited to attend several continents. Vox Humana Singing Chokonai has won the Mihály Vitéz Award in Vác, and we are very proud of it. [[20.20]] The famous bakery and workshop of the Mihályi Patisserie Vác is also awarded an international award for the first time, in the Dining Guide. But not only did one of the Mari Jászai awards reach the Danube bend, as Csaba Pindroch of guardbottyán and the theater director of Vác, Márk Kis Domonkos also won the Mari Jászai Prize. In addition, Sándor Bacskai was awarded the Hungarian Golden Cross of Merit. We are proud of all of them, all of us with excellent performance, they make our country stronger and more respected, the Dunakanyar, the Ipoly and the Börzsöny region. In addition, there have been countless important events. For example, Vác soccer was once again in the hands of Váci, and thus the career development was able to start. IpolyFest was held for the first time, but in addition, both the VégFestival and the holiday concert commemorating the 30th anniversary of the change of regime took place with great participation and great popularity. A whole new performance tour under the name of BörzsönyRing was launched in Börzsöny. We are very confident that it will transform the region of Börzsöny, not as a dead end for bikers, but as a well-traveled racing platform. In addition, industrial development, the expansion of the economy, has long been expected, it is important, I say that it was a generational step, that the M2 has doubled to two lanes. They have been waiting for generations, now under the civilian government this has been achieved, and besides, the Vacians have already tried the two-storey trains, which are also arriving. We could also inaugurate the statue of former Vác's representative, State Secretary of the former Klebelsberg Ministry of Culture, Gyula Kornis. In addition, a number of improvements can also be made in smaller settlements through government support, support from the Hungarian village. The renovation of the kindergarten can be carried out in two settlements worth 160 million HUF, Szokolyán and Vácon. The renovation of the kindergarten can take place in 17 settlements from 77 million forints. Cradle development can take place in 12 settlements from 1 billion HUF 800 million. The renovation of the Járda can take place in five settlements with HUF 25 million. Interior roads and sidewalks can be renovated from 87 million forints in 6 settlements. Interior road renovations can take place in four settlements, Nagybörzsöny, Bishophatvan, Radon and Zebegény from 120 million forints. The village bus is placed in three settlements worth HUF 45 million, in the case of Tübvár, Kóspallag and Verőce. Tésán and Kosdon provide resources for the expansion of village and folklore services. The renovation of cemeteries and funeral homes can take place from government sources in six settlements of HUF 49 million. 11 settlements won at the community space competition of the Hungarian village with a total value of 210 million HUF, in the case of Bernecebaráti, Kóspallag, Nagybörzsöny, Nagymaros, Penc, Rad, Szob, Vácduka, Vácrátót, Vámosmikola, Verőce. 14 settlements won a total of HUF 40 million for a medical device application in the Hungarian village, Acsa, Bernecebarati, Csörg, Galgagyörk, Kismaros, Kóspallag, Penc, Pőcsény, Püspökhatvan, Püspökszilágy, Sződ, Vácrátót, Vámosmikola and Zebegény. In Nagymaros, the renovation of the doctor's office can be launched, as next to the previous HUF 30 million, nearly HUF 60 million, specifically HUF 58 million, will receive additional government support. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The sports park can be built on Kóspallag, Sződön and Verőcén. Vác received a government grant of HUF 25 million a month ago. At the social firewood competition 26 settlements received government support of HUF 36 million. The Vác District Office was completely renewed from outside, it received solar panels, full water, heat, roofproofing, window change was completed for nearly a quarter of a billion forints, as well as the Komászó Youth Leadership Training Centre and Pilgrimage House in the operation of the Vác Bishop's Office with HUF 315 million government support. The border crossing point, which is now between Hungary and the Felvidék, Slovakia, is more of a symbolic one, but the preparation of this renovation will also begin from 110 million forints. We are proud of the settlements of Dunakanyar, we are proud of the people of Dunakanyar, we have achieved countless successes and results. With the growing settlements Hungary can also be a stronger country. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-21-102	Thank you, Congressman. I thank you all for your long and hard work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
